ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e67	From the representatives of Margunn Ebbesen, Svein Harberg, Willfred Nordlund and Eirik Sivertsen there are applications for leave from 5 March to 8 March, all to take part in a study trip with the delegation of Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation to Svalbard. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave, from 6 March to 8 March: For East-Agder counties: Arne Thomassen For the Nordic counties: Kjell-Idar Juvik, Elizabeth Åsjord Sire and Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e110	The representative of Mr Lene Vågslid will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e115	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Maria Aasen-Svensrud, Jan Bøhler and myself, to present a proposal for a representative to strengthen people's legal certainty so that those who are right can also be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e120	The representative Per Espen Stoknes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e125	Everyone wants to make more biogas out of wet organic waste, as we heard on Tuesday, but it's a barrier that demand is unpredictable. I am therefore delighted to promote a proposal for a representative together with Else-May Botten and Espen Barth Eide that biogas vehicles are being treated in the same way as electric cars and hydrogen cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e130	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e135	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Marit Arnstad, Geir Pollestad and myself, present a proposal for a representative on measures to ensure that mothers and children have a professionally good maternity care and prevent irresponsible cuts in hospital after birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e140	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e148	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Roald Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Roald Hansen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e168	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e182	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: 25 minutes, 25 minutes, 15 minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes, 10 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes for the Christian People's Party, 5 minutes for the Green Party, 5 minutes for the Green Party and 5 minutes for the Red Party. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven lines of response from members of the Government. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e193	Let me first, since this is the Minister of Foreign Affairs' first statement, take advantage of the opportunity to wish the Minister of Foreign Affairs happiness in her new role and external desire for good cooperation with the Stortinget. I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a broad explanation. It was drawn a picture of a world filled with contrasts. The last Sunday was, for example, The OL fire extinguished in Pyeongchang as at least with Norwegian eyes must be called successful and joyous Olympic games. But only 65 kilometers north of this town lies the demilitarized son towards North Korea. On the Korean peninsula, the world is now experiencing a real nuclear threat for the first time since the end of the war. On 25 January, the doomsday clock of the international nuclear scientists was set until two minutes at midnight. Nearer the battle of midnight, mankind has not been since 1953, a few months after the ceasefire was concluded between North and South Korea. As so often before, we from Stortinget will be able to join the vast majority of the foreign minister's descriptions and analyses. It becomes more interesting when analyses are to be translated into priorities and practical policies. What to do? In November the world could indicate that it was 100 years since the Russian October Revolution. Perhaps Lenin, the most important father of the revolution, gave 15 years earlier, in 1902, a book with a striking title, but not a striking strategy. The book has at least «What must be done?» So, what must be done in Norwegian foreign policy? One thing that I now think needs to be done on behalf of the Workers' Party is to step up Norway's efforts in UN peacekeeping operations. In these days it has been 40 years since the launch of the Norwegian UNIFIL contribution in Lebanon. The main task of the defence is and shall remain the defence of Norway. But it is in Norway's security policy's own interest that the UN peacekeeping forces actually function. Then we have to contribute ourselves. In addition, we have more capacity than before. In the last 15 years, we have been heavily involved with NATO in Afghanistan and in recent years also in the international coalition against ISIL. Now these contributions are significantly reduced. We have available capacity. At the same time, the number of Norwegian UN soldiers is now historically low. Unfortunately, the Minister of Defence has not been able to answer Storting’s question about how many are now out, but according to UN statistics, Norway only participated with 32 soldiers in January. In comparison, Sweden 313 and Finland have 307 soldiers on UN missions. Norwegian contributions cannot be measured in number. Which capacities we contribute to is probably the most important thing. But it's about intelligence, transport aircraft or field hospitals, and the Norwegian contribution to UN operations includes not only military but also police and civil experts. The need for peacekeeping forces is absolutely present. The total number of persons in the UN service is currently at a historically high level. Hopefully, the need will increase further by putting in place operational peace agreements in Ukraine and Syria. The discussions on a separate UN operation in Ukraine have already been going on for a while. Sweden has signaled a willingness to take on a leading role. There is a need to support the ongoing reforms of UN peace operations and to increase the quality of the UN peace operation — and Norway must also participate itself. I would therefore like to address the Labour Party's proposal for increased Norwegian participation in UN peacekeeping operations. According to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the government is now giving the highest priority to the work of Norway’s candidacy to the UN Security Council for the period 2021-2022. The Security Council is responsible for ensuring the UN peacekeeping operations. The fact that Norway should now increase its contributions is also about credibility in the UN context. When Prime Minister Trudeau announced in November that Canada would step up by just over 200 UN soldiers, he pointed out that the United Nations forces need to do more to prevent and prevent conflict and abuse, and then it is right and proper that Canada itself contribute. According to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the government is now giving the highest priority to Norway’s candidacy to the UN Security Council — the highest priority. The same cannot be said exactly about the second largest government party's foreign policy spokesman. He has made it clear to the outside world, including for the UN member countries that have embassies in Oslo and listen to Norwegian radio, that he does not think it is a good idea that Norway should have a place in the UN Security Council. Some have introduced the term'solberg parliamentarism'. One thing is irresponsible double play when it comes to domestic policy issues, such as: DAB radio, to which we have witnessed in this hall. But it's something different and more serious when the ruling parties' figures in the Storting actually undermine their own government's foreign policy. This is no longer about a domestic policy game, but about a direct undermining of Norway’s national interests. And then, sadly, it is not that the Foreign Minister has kept his words when she claims that the government meets today's troubled world with «safe governance». Norway shall be able to rely on international policies. For this reason, it has also been necessary from this Chair to address the government’s management of the announced Norwegian Presidency of the OSCE in 2020. Last spring, 21 April, the government presented the roadmap. Press releases sent out in Norwegian and English had as a presumptuously important issue that Norway would take ‘safety-policy responsibility’ in Europe through a Norwegian OSCE Presidency in 2020. A unanimous rise joined this in June, during the processing of this big message. In December, the formal election of Presidencies was scheduled to take place at the OSCE ministerial meeting, but only days before the ministerial meeting it was announced to the other OSCE countries that Norway would nevertheless not assume this responsibility. The reason shall be economic. But that it means expenses to assume this presidency must then be known to the government when it sent this message to Stortinget last year. The result is a government that signals that Norway is now untrustworthy, and it is potentially harmful to Norway’s reputation and Norwegian interests. In a neighborhood or a branch, you should have a good and open relationship with all your neighbors. However, the most important neighbouring conditions are with those with whom you have borders, with whom you share fences. Russia is not just a country in our neighbourhood, Russia is our neighbour – we share 196 kilometres of national border and not least an unconditionally negotiated border at sea. Norway has an interest in maintaining contact with Russia, even in difficult times. Our neighbourhood with Russia must be based on cooperation, dialogue, firmness and predictability. We must join our allied European partners in meeting violations of international law. At the same time, we need to focus on cooperation in the north, which contributes to low voltage in the north. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will decide for himself his travel calendar, but I allow myself to encourage the Minister of Foreign Affairs to make room to visit our largest neighbouring country. The Foreign Affairs Committee has already planned a visit in spring. For my part, I would also urge the Minister for Foreign Affairs not to act as her colleague the Minister for Fisheries when, in the summer of 2016 – as the first Norwegian State Council – he visited Russia after the Crimean annexation. Then he said that he would ‘put a little lid on the major overall conflicts’. Norway needs an honest dialogue with Russia. Our relationship with Russia must rest on two legs: we are both neighbours and allies. This summer, there is again the NATO Summit in the new headquarters of the Alliance in Brussels. I am concerned about the government's unshakable attitude towards Norway's NATO commitments – and that is the 2 % concrete. The Prime Minister is constantly repeating that among NATO countries, Norway is using the second most in defence per capita, according to the United States. This second place has been in Norway for many years. But it's not like the NATO countries have agreed to measure each other this way. The 2014 summit shattered two principles: the NATO countries were to use at least 20 pst. of the defence budget for investments and Member States would increase their defence budgets up to 2 pst. of GDP by 2024. The 20 pst requirement. in investment is not a problem for Norway — mainly due to the investment in combat aircraft, adopted by a large majority in this Chamber. In the summer of 2016, when she was Minister for Foreign Affairs, she answered the following questions about the GDP share of the defence budget in 2020: ‘Depending on the projections and scenarios used, the share of GDP of the defence budget in 2020 will be in the range of 1,58 and 1,71 %.’» Then she said, "Nevertheless, the GDP share will increase." In January this year, the new Minister of Defence then answers that, by 2020, the share of GDP will, on the contrary, decline from the current level of 1.56 p.m. and down to 1.5 pst. So this government is moving Norway away from our NATO commitments. I think that's serious. And then you owe on high GDP growth. But higher growth also gives greater space for action. Our NATO allies in the Baltic States have had a much higher GDP growth than Norway in recent years, but they still expect to reach the 2 % target. The war in Syria is about to enter its eighth year. The reports of East Ghouta and Afrin in the last few days and weeks signal so much too clearly that the war is far from over. It is correct and important for Norway to provide humanitarian relief to the innocent civilian population. But the world's worst humanitarian disaster is further south, in Yemen – already before the war started in 2015 in the poorest country in the Middle East. 18 million Yemenites are hit by hunger, nearly two thirds of the country's population. We are going to discuss Norwegian arms exports later today, but I believe that this should also be said in the general foreign policy discussion. Since March 2015, a Saudi-Arabia-led coalition of Gulf States – with the United Arab Emirates as the second largest military contributor – has been heavily involved in the brutal war in Yemen. Both in January 2016 and February 2017, reports from the panel of experts set up by the United Nations Security Council have raised strong concerns that there has been a violation of humanitarian law in the war in Yemen. In such a situation, the export of Norwegian defence equipment should not be allowed. Nevertheless, in 2016 the government allowed exports of weapons and ammunition, i.e. A-materials, to the Emirates for a value of 100 million. kr. I allow myself to point out some points of disagreement and criticism of the government's priorities. We both tolerate and need more disagreement and criticism in foreign policy change. In conclusion, however, I would like to highlight one aspect of the Foreign Minister's statement that I fully agree with, and that is the reference to the multilateral system and the importance of the institutions to the world and also to Norway. International law is our first line defense. Regulatory international cooperation prevents the strongest from being provided. The fact that the men in the painting behind me could come together in the spring of 1814 in the National Assembly at Eidsvoll to write a constitution for an independent Norway is due to the space of action that opened through Europe's great settlement after the Napoleonic wars. This settlement occurred primarily within the framework of the so-called Vienna Congress. But there was only the great act of the date that had something they should have said. Another ‘child’ of the Congress of Vienna is the Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine. It was established in 1815 and is the world's first and oldest international organization. On its journey from the Swiss Alps to the Dutch North Sea coast, the Rhine flows through five countries. Already 203 years ago, national politicians realized that they all had a common interest in establishing and maintaining common driving rules. Norway gained its independence in 1814, but when we were negotiating with the Swedes in 1905 about Norwegian break-up, an estuary also played a very central role. The Swedish negotiators were concerned that Norway would undertake never to change the course of the transnational Scandinavian rivers. In concrete terms, the Swedes were concerned about Trysilelva northeast of Hedmark. Because when Trysileva crosses the border with Sweden, it changes its name to Klarälven and finally runs out in Vänern, Sweden's largest lake. In 1905, the Norwegian authorities agreed to the Swedish requirement not to influence river flow — in practice, not to build hydropower plants. This narrowed down the Great Britain's room of action, and Norway was deprived of a small portion of our sovereignty, but that was the price we paid to become an independent country. I'm not sure if the Rhine or Trysileva is visible to spacers, but borders are not possible to see if you're studying Earth from space. There is more than ever a need for effective international cooperation, and today there is hardly any political area that does not have an international or European dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e261	The representative Anniken Huitfeldt has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e266	Migration, instability, terrorism, challenges with the security of our Nordic neighbourhood, Brexit, the future of the European Union, the EEA position in this picture, and climate and globalisation challenges – there is a lot to address in a foreign policy statement. But I do not agree with the previous speakers that it does not contain clear priorities. I think it has a good basic tone, and the basic tone is that Norway participates in obliging international cooperation with those countries that are close to us geographically, culturally, and valuablely, and that we continue it as a common and broad political line, after the experience we gained in trying to stand neutral in two world wars, which brought great losses to the nation. It's with the horizon I think we should go into the discussion, and if you're going to listen to what's said, we have to admit that the world has become more dangerous. I noticed that the German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel said in an interview in a German newspaper that the democracies were now in an environment of carnivores. And it is even one who has a leading position in a country that is bigger and stronger than ours, but has also been civilised through internationally committed cooperation, where nationalistic self-interests are subordinated to the work of – in the first instance – a united Europe, a Europe of peace. Then, on this occasion, I have to say that it is a pity that Norway has stood out from political cooperation in Europe. There are some of us who are never going to give up the hope, the dream and the work that we can also join the political community built up by others in Europe, although we have to note that the economic part in which we are integrated works well and has become the most important agreement in Norway, which means most for Norwegian employment and the Norwegian economy. I would also like to say – not least in the light of previous speeches, which were held by not anyone but by the Labour Party’s leading foreign policy spokesman, head of the Foreign Affairs Committee – that I think we should remind ourselves that Norwegian foreign policy is the strongest when we stand with our friends abroad, but we must not exaggerate national disagreements in order to achieve any political gains. I do not think it is the dressed opening post of the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee to talk about'solberg parliamentarism' and whether anyone uses words in other contexts. This is not the case when we have so many tasks and so many problems to discuss together. If you're looking for paradoxes, you could say that our own government was referred to more unkindly, and in a more – we'll say – hostile context, than what was found to mention it by our neighbors who have actually violated international law by annexing a country. It even recommended a kind of peace mission that the Foreign Minister should deal with. Now I will not begin to advise the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the travel programme that she and the Ministry are offering for Norway. But if we're going to start there, it's a good start to have a realistic understanding that we should say straight away that the framework for Norway's foreign and security policy involvement is challenged, not least by the country I mentioned. And this is the frame that's moving. There are major changes in the world that affect the global system and create new framework conditions, not only for Norway, but also for large and powerful countries that have dominated the post-war period. Unpredictability of international policies has not been greater than it is now for a long time. Then we also have to ask whether we are going to contribute to such doubts as the consensus we have had in Norwegian foreign policy, the fact that we are behind the foreign minister we have, and the policy that this big business has also contributed to driving out at large. I hope that the next time we deal with the foreign minister's statement, we will hear more about what the Workers' Party's other priorities might be. If they are ever to have credibility as an opposition party, they may also need to make it clear in which areas they want to change foreign policy. So you can be a little optimistic and say that precisely because it was so much different, it might not be so much to attack the foreign policy statement itself for. That's also a way to interpret it. I would like to remind this House that keeping internationally orientated and participating in multilateral organisations with full force, in particular in areas in motion, is essential for a small country such as Norway. It must also be said from here, and I hope that there is agreement on that, that running to a place in the Security Council is important. Now we should not look it up more than to say that the Security Council may also survive without Norwegian participation, but what is incredibly important is that countries with established rule of law and democracies meet and occupy the places available for influence in the international multilateral organisations. And it is important that the Nordic countries support each other's membership and application for membership. As the Head of Delegation of the Nordic Council delegation, I have to say that precisely this coordination and this knowledge make it possible for us to coordinate it and not get in the way of each other, but support each other's candidacy. That's why I don't think it's dressy when you're having trouble, when you can't almost take into your mouth what Russia has done with a changed climate of security policy, while whipping the government in order not to achieve what was a common goal after the Cardiff meeting, the Wales Summit in 2014. In terms of the way in which the target has been laid out, which was, of course, that the countries undertake to work in terms of 2 pst. of the value creation, i.e. GDP, within a decade's horizon, I think you're more than objectively unwilling to the government when you're already a few years out in that decade attacking a forecast for growth and saying that you automatically come under 2 pst. If that is the case, we can only meet the future budgetary procedures, where it is more than enough to grant just to fully finance this structure that the Stortinget has adopted through the long-term defence plan, and not least the agreement we had on the land force. In a small country and in a democracy, of course, we must discuss our disagreements, but do not let them overshadow what is the condition of the small state. Let's stand together where we can, internally, and not suspect each other. Let's put together the forces to ensure that the democratic countries and those who profess the principles of the rule of law cooperate internationally, where there is also more to do for Norway, for example. in the European Community, closely following developments in the permanent structured cooperation on defence issues which the EU is building up in the management of migration flows, this having a common policy on border crossings and a common enforcement. So we can contribute to European legal formation and development, while the European countries say – and once again confirm – that this should not disrupt the fundamental axis between Europe and the United States, and that it is not influenced by any changes that may occur in a four-year period in an American administration. I look forward to the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e294	Let me first thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for her presentation on the role of Norway in an increasingly complex and less transparent world. It is positive to record that Norwegian foreign policy is moving in a more real policy direction, where Norwegian interests and Norwegian security are at the centre of attention, taking into account that one faces difficult dilemmas without ideal solutions. It is important that we are clear on this, and that we try to understand, rather than condemn, countries that choose a different line in foreign policy. Each country has its history, its culture and its interests, and there is no universal foreign policy. It is not necessarily Norway’s natural role in any context to point out and criticise other countries’ assessments and choices. We also need to recognise and accept that Norway is a small country with limited ability to influence developments in the world. It is not in Norway's interest to try to make us more important than we are, and we therefore need to prioritise and focus our efforts where we can make the most difference. It is therefore important that the Minister of Foreign Affairs takes the initiative to discuss Norway’s interests in a multilateral world order, inter alia. to discuss Norway’s involvement in international organisations and our role in peace negotiations elsewhere in the world. It is particularly important that we be careful about cooperation with countries that do not share our values and even work against them. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that many countries today are strong in their resistance to globalisation, that trust in international institutions is low, and that we are living at a time when identity policy and populism lead to protectionism and nationalism. We have to be careful about categorically condemning such flows. It is important that politicians and heads of state are in contact with most people. There is a danger that the elite, of which we ourselves are part, will become more concerned about going to conferences and talking to each other than listening to the real concerns of ordinary people. This could help undermine those institutions and organisations that were initially meant to promote the welfare and security of the people. The Minister for Foreign Affairs initially pointed out that much is going well in the world: more children go to school, especially girls, there is strong growth in the production of renewable energy, there is progress in the fight against terrorist organisations, and there is economic growth in all the major economies of the world. All of this we're going to enjoy. But these perspectives and features are drowning in the negative global trends we are experiencing, and unfortunately, there is nothing in international policy that would mean that we are moving into a new spring. Of course, there is sparkle, but the big, overall trends are negative and threaten global prosperity, well-being and freedom. One of these trends is the population growth of the world's poor, often totalitarian, country. Population projections show that the number of people living in Africa will double by 2050. Africa will have a population of 2.4 billion people. In Nigeria alone, the population will increase from today's 185 million to 440 million. In Uganda, the population will triple – from 40 million to 120 million people. In the same period, Europe's population will be reduced from 740 million to 710 million. This development is not sustainable and will have major consequences in all forms of diplomacy and foreign policy, of course also for Norway. The pressure on Europe will increase, and balances of power will shift. The solution, however, is not to move people from one continent to another. Another development is the increasing upsurge of Islamic fundamentalism. The Minister of Foreign Affairs stressed Norway’s commitment to human rights, and it has great support. However, it is important that this involvement is not limited to obvious breaches that occur in acute crises, civil war and persecution. World society must also demonstrate zero tolerance for human rights violations by countries that base their law on religious texts – texts that the governments of the countries believe justify blatant violations of human rights, texts that do not allow individual freedom, freedom of expression, equality, equality or religious freedom. It is important that Norway is clear and consistent and actively countering all such regimes, and that we also counter similar trends imported into our own country. It will be difficult to take UN seriously on such issues when the organisation has given Saudi Arabia a leadership position in the Human Rights Council and has also given the country a place in the UN Women's Commission. It's not hard to agree with UN Watch, which describes the decision to have a pyromaniac become a fire chief. There is little doubt that such decisions weaken confidence and belief in multilateral institutions and cooperation. The Roadmap Communication on Norwegian Security and Foreign Policy is clear that Norwegian foreign policy should be based on what serves Norwegian interests. This was also clearly stated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in her statement, where she added, in addition to interests, ‘areas of importance to Norway’. The question will, of course, be the implications of this definition for Norway’s executive foreign policy. Norway has an obvious interest in having a good neighbourly relationship with Russia. It is therefore positive that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was so clear that Russia and Norway have many common challenges and that we are doing the best together. The statement that our relationship with Russia remains a constant and important factor in Norwegian foreign policy, and that no one is served with increased tension between our two countries, is an important signal that we want to work for good and constructive cooperation. As a neighbouring country, it is not unnatural that Norway is a major contributor to reducing the tension between the West and Russia. It is also evident in Norway’s interest to maintain close transatlantic cooperation through NATO. NATO’s expansion has taken place very quickly, and in 18 years the alliance has been expanded from 13 to 29 countries. There is little doubt that this expansion has been largely based on foreign policy interests. It is only recently that Member States have taken seriously the obligations of collective NATO. US President Donald Trump's demand that all Member States undertake to use 2 pst. by GNI in its own defence, has given a wake-up call to all NATO countries. This also needs to be met by Norway, and that means more than what is in the current plans for defence. To the representative of Huitfeldt, I would like to point out that her criticism of today's government and defence budgets does not prevent the Workers' Party from promoting itself alternative budgets that put on the 15 billion that are missing to reach 2 pst. I look forward to the Workers' Party's alternative budget. The EU's ambitions to expand its military cooperation in an explicit attempt to strengthen NATO are unlikely to succeed. The Brussels rhetoric is an echo from past ambitions that they themselves have been quite active in getting to, and they have already stranded. They all have the beach. The creation of European capacities will need to be based on a common exploitation of the overall defence-industrial research of EU countries. In practice, this means that leading defence companies, for example in France and Germany, must share their research results. The same must be true of the authorities of the countries. It will be an impossibility political, industrial, economic, and not least it will be exchange-sensitive. After Brexit, the EU country of NATO will total only 20 pst. of the total defence budgets of the NATO countries, and the use of defence money to establish a new structure in the EU, as it is now being done, seem not appropriate. Norway should be careful to approach such cooperation. Our defence budget should be used where we get the most 'bang for the buck' and it happens through the strongest possible national defence with strong military, political and industrial ties to the United States. After Brexit, bilateral cooperation with the United Kingdom will become even more important. However, Norway’s eagerness to enter the UN Security Council is unlikely to serve Norway’s foreign policy interests. The fact that a small country such as Norway is wise to try to put even greater footprints in international security policy has not been given. It's true that we don't have global ambitions, that we're provoking little, and that we have money, but that doesn't mean that being a member of the UN Security Council is a natural role for Norway. It also gives cause for concern that Norway has run a ten-year and very expensive electoral campaign to achieve membership, and it is unmusical that in December last year Norway voted to condemn the US decision to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, partly in partnership with countries with which we have very little in common. Norway’s involvement in the conflict between Israel and the Palestinian authorities is nearing its 30th anniversary. In 25 of these years, Norway has led the so-called donor country group. The group's aim is to build Palestinian institutions and strengthen the Palestinian economy. The English name is the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee and presents a somewhat more nuanced picture of the group's work. It is my hope that the U.D. can replace today's Norwegian name with a name that shows that the group is doing more than just transferring money. It is also important to take into account the wording of the Jeløia cooperation platform, which states that the government will not support ‘organisations in the Palestinian territories that encourage violence or promote hateful expressions, racism or anti-semitism’. There are many organisations to choose from here. A study of new textbooks used in UNRWA and their schools shows that the books do not have Israel on the maps. They deny that Jews have some rights or sacred places in the country, and encourage violent struggle against the occupation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that migration needs to be seen in a wider global context. That's obviously right. However, this does not mean that the number of refugees received in different countries should be seen independently of national cultures and religions. We have to deal with the realities and not imagine that we can create a multicultural and multireligious world by moving large populations around the Earth. Ethnicity, history, culture, identity, values and religion are real sizes and must be respected and understood if we are to have an opportunity to take care of people on the run. In this context, it is not relevant to assess Norway’s reception of refugees in the neighbouring countries of conflict areas. It is positive that Norway will take an active part in the UN negotiations in Geneva and New York to lead to a global platform for refugees and migrants. It is important, then, that our starting point for these negotiations is in line with the adopted Road Election Notice, which is clear that we are going to put Norway's interests first. The EU has increasingly been responsible for managing the flow of refugees from the Middle East and Africa. It's not a task it's natural for the EU to take on. Refugee and migration issues are a global responsibility and need to be addressed globally. There is already a separate body in the United Nations that has such a responsibility. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, is currently represented in more than 130 countries and employs over 10,000 people. With this as a backstop, it should be natural for the UNHCR to take over all responsibility for global refugee flows. My appeal to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that, based on her talks in Geneva and New York, she discusses this with her contacts in the United Nations system. The starting point must be that it is not Europe's responsibility to take people on the run alone. Every safe country has to take responsibility. And the very foundation must be that refugees who are protected in a safe country go back to their country whenever possible. It is also in line with the principles laid down by the UNHCR. Then I have some comments to make to the representative Huitfeldt about the Progress Party and my comments on the UN Security Council. It is such that the representatives of the Progress Party have gone to the elections on a party programme, and we in this Chamber are obliged to follow up the voters who have elected us into this Chamber. If we don't, we lose any credibility. That's actually our mission. When you sit in a government and you have to compromise, it's because you think with our party program together, we get more to sit in a government than to stand outside. It can be discussed whether that is the case, but it's all gone in for. However, this does not prevent us, as representatives of the Progress Party, from promoting the policy of the Progress Party, just as the representative Tetzschner stood here and wished for Norwegian EU membership, which is also not in line with government policy. I defend his right to do so, for it is in line with Right Policy. That should be so, because we are elected by the people, and it is the people who decide what we should promote policies in this room. No one has been elected on either the Jeleya Platform or the Sundvolden Declaration, we are elected to the Party's policies. I hope that more than the Progress Party and the Right in this case in the future will defend their own policies, but accept compromises adopted by the majority of the government and the majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e332	I would like to begin by commending the Minister of Foreign Affairs for her initial approach to the challenges we face in the international community. I shall quote: ‘Ideal solutions are more exceptional than the rule. Conflicting considerations often need to be weighed against each other. We have to be honest about that. The complexity and dilemmas also make us rarely in the choice of only good alternatives in our time. Very often, the situation is that we have to choose the least poor of the options – and make it clear that not making a choice is also a decision that has consequences. The many contradictions in the world around us create the need for anchoring and debate both on dilemmas and priorities – also here at home." From this point of view, I expected the Foreign Minister to have carried out an analysis of the political actions and actions of the last 20-30 years which, on the one hand, have led to work, income and better living conditions for people who are attenuated by social unrest, who have given increased confidence to the people's regime, which has led to the detachment of the major acts and to peace, and, on the other hand, to political actions and measures that have led to the opposite: unemployment, nudity, unrest, distrust of the peoples, refugee trauma, greater tension between the powers of the storm, terror and dissatisfaction. But the Foreign Minister did not do this. Analysis of what has produced good results, and what has produced bad results, the concreteization of the various dilemmas we face, and the invitation to debate about this was little of it. Most of it was a status report on what's unsolicited around the world, and it's important that Norway makes an effort. After hearing Mr Tetzschner's comments, one would think that there was no such thing as the dilemmas and challenges mentioned by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I'm going to choose to put words on some of the challenges and dilemmas that, in our view, require debate and smart political management. I'm going to start in our own part of the world. Former journalist in Stavanger Aftenblad, Ingeborg Eliassen, has written a thought-provoking book on the new working life in Europe, entitled «Hard times». It is a system-critical book on the brutalisation of working life, with major inequalities, weak Community solutions and weakened professional dishes. This is not a result of the fact that the nation state is short, as some say, but of crazy political choices, where free-flow policies, the single currency and the money are given the right to buy. Unfortunately, when the Minister of Foreign Affairs draws an image of the return of optimism in Europe, it says more about this government's blind belief in the EU and free-flow policy than about the actual situation in many of the countries. I'll take Spain as an example. According to Trading Economics, youth unemployment in Spain is now at just under 40pst. Of course, it's better than when she was at 55 p.m., as she was at the worst. That almost half of Spanish youth are unemployed is a social tragedy. Youth unemployment is now almost twice what it was before the introduction of the euro. We have the same situation in Greece. There is also youth unemployment almost twice what it was in 2002. Both average and minimum wages in Greece are much lower today than some years ago. Few areas have more to say about the security and life happiness of people than they have security for work. Eurobarometers provide an interesting insight into how workers in the EU view the situation. The last comprehensive study was conducted in 2014. 57 pst. felt that employment had been worse in the country in the last five years, only 12 pst. thought it was better. This high youth unemployment rate in many EU countries should distress us all, and the answer to it cannot be any more of the policies that have resulted. Another dilemma: Western countries have used large economic resources and military power in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. The intentions were good, the results are discouraging. Millions of people are on the run. The situation in the Middle East is more unstable now than in the last thousand years, with the emergence of ISIL and the cruel acts of war in Syria. The situation in Afghanistan has gone from bad to worse. Of course, it is a dilemma not to resort to military power, but the use of military power requires a clear plan of reconciliation and peace when weapons are still. History has unfortunately taught us that there are no shortcuts to peace through unilateral use of military power. The dilemma of clear speech and strong use of words about the violation of international law by Russia is evident in our and other Western countries' mention of NATO Turkey, where the Foreign Minister confines himself to saying: ‘We look with great concern at the level of Turkey’s intervention in Syria.’ The central party believes it is important for Norway as a self-reliant country to have a strong defence. Then we must have a strong army and a strong country power. Of course, it was unfortunate that the financial framework for the Defence in 2018 was not established in connection with the treatment of the State budget. After listening to contributions from representatives Tybring-Gjedde and Michael Tetzschner in the Chamber today, there are interesting rounds to consider the level of defence concessions in connection with the treatment of the revised national budget for spring. The centre party also believes it is important to have good and trusting cooperation with our allies in NATO. We attach great importance to transatlantic cooperation and to continuing our historical good cooperation with the United Kingdom and the United States. The West and Norway's relations with Russia have worsened sharply following Russia's annexation of Crimea and destabilization of East Ukraine, which is clearly contrary to international rules. It is in the interests of both Norway and Russia to have more dialogue and cooperation on common interests and strong people-to-people cooperation in the Barents region. Norway and NATO must contribute to relaxation and normalisation. Such developments are, of course, dependent on Russia and cannot take place at the cost of international law and at the cost of the right of self-determination and self-determination of other countries. I must stress here that Norway in the north has had a much more historic cooperation with Russia than many other neighbouring countries they have had. Polar trade, public relations and cooperation on resource management have been good, and conflicts have been resolved through long-term and meeting cooperation. Of course, it is important that Norway continues this work with great wisdom, and I can put myself behind what Huitfeldt's representative said at this point. Of course, the work to strengthen the UN as the most important player in international society is important and fully supported in this room. We need a strong UN to solve global challenges. No one can – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says – replace the important work of the United Nations. The government has wide support for its work to secure Norway a seat in the UN Security Council in the period 2021-2022. It might be an idea for the Foreign Minister to set up a debate on what Norway should use its place for, in the light of the experience we had in the years 2001 and 2002, when we were last member. I think it might be interesting, and it's still time to set up such a debate, if you'd like. I have now mentioned some of the dilemmas and challenges that the Minister of Foreign Affairs could have analysed and taken initiatives for debate. The important thing in the future must be to implement policies that we have experienced and are aware of, and to eliminate policies that have not produced good results. We also need a debate on a new policy in important areas – which neither the Minister of Foreign Affairs nor I have mentioned so far. It applies to measures for the taxation of multinational corporations and anti-corruption measures, which are of course also important if we are to be able to secure people's work, income, food, health and education around the globe. But no, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is taking one initiative — one new project. She will discuss Norway's interests in a multilateral world order. Honestly, this is the broad theme we're discussing all along. With the challenges ahead of us internationally, I can't see that there is an urgent need for extra focus on precisely this in 2018 and 2019. Especially strange is this initiative seen in the light of the government's management of brexit. In fact, we had a new situation, which gave Norway a new space for action both towards the EU and towards its important NATO allied country, the United Kingdom. Instead of appreciating this space for action and facilitating debate, the government chose to look at brexit as a problem and be a spectator of things that are obviously important to us. The train went – without Norway wanting to seize the day and the action room that happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e380	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation. My five minutes don't go to go into the breadth of what the Foreign Minister took up, so let me go straight to what I think is the most serious and most important thing to discuss now, and that's the ongoing, man-made disaster in the Middle East. The people of East Ghouta are in a terrible situation. In Yemen, the most precarious humanitarian crisis in the world is going on today, even worse than in Syria. And the Kurdish people in Syria experience, after taking so much of the burden in the fight against ISIL, being betrayed by the West and invaded by Turkey as thank you. It's a serious situation, and it's about many things. It's about ISIL's attempt to build a cruel terrorist state. It's about Assad's oppressive regime in Damascus. But it is also about a disastrous failure of Western policy, ever since the US invasion of Iraq. In the various wars in this region, both in Iraq and subsequently in the continuing war in Iraq and Syria these days, Norway has been flagging the table and soldiers on the ground. Yesterday the news came that Norway will continue the military contribution to the coalition operation in Iraq, even with a escalation. It is an escalation that, as usual, is not followed up by the broad and open debate that we should have had on the Stortinget, and I therefore want to take this opportunity also to say a little about why SV has been and is against Norway having soldiers in the Middle East at this time. The experience with the wars in which Norway has participated, whether it has been in Iraq, Afghanistan or elsewhere, is that it has been largely about warriors to have flagged the table and to be a good ally for the United States, and where the main focus of Norwegian policy has been war effort abroad as a security guarantee for Norway instead of being a question of what we can achieve with our military contributions. What is now going on in Iraq is a good example of this. It's unclear what we're doing, it's unclear who we're working with, and it's unclear how the command line is. There has also been some attention in the most recent case of possible Norwegian participation — currently only economically — in the various Western operations in Sahel, especially in Niger. Whether it's related to anti-terrorism operations or to the refugee crisis, we'll strongly warn against getting involved in another conflict on the basis of the desire to be a good ally for the United States. It is time, in a world of such great change, for a more independent Norwegian foreign policy. I noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his statement, underlined the community of values in NATO. I think the timing was funny, because there are many decades since the value-related distance between countries inside NATO has been greater than today. What is our community of values with Donald Trump, not to mention Erdogan and Viktor Orbán? It is difficult to meet with moral authority, for example. Putin's authoritarian regime when one at the same time has friends going in the same direction. Therefore, a Norwegian foreign policy that is more independent of the United States is needed, more marked by thinking for itself and less of water retention, and which puts more emphasis on cooperation with the countries that are closest to us, especially our Nordic neighbours. A good place to start such an independent thinking would be in the debate on nuclear weapons. I notice that the issue of nuclear disarmament was not at all central to the Secretary of State's presentation. It disappoints me if a result of the government's opposition to the UN ban becomes Norwegian silence on this incredibly important issue. We demand clear answers on this, and I will come back to the question of Niger and Sahel in the loop.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e397	I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. In addition to many of the individual countries for which the Minister for Foreign Affairs praised his commitment, Yemen, Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and Myanmar, we in the Left are very pleased that she also addresses global climate change and shows commitment to nuclear disarmament, respect for international law and human rights, and not least that humanitarian aid should be increased, and that Norway should have a commitment to the UN Emergency Fund. In the short time available to me, I thought that I would focus on two of the many issues on which the Foreign Minister was involved, and on international freedom of religion and not least on a common European security policy. In the area of religious freedom, unfortunately, there has been a downward trend over many years. We now know, 70 years after the World Declaration, that over 70 pst. the population of the world lives in countries that restrict freedom of religion. Open Doors, which is a very well-known organization, especially looks at Christian persecuted people, and conducts statistics on many countries and how development goes there. I noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that Norway should tackle a new India strategy. Then there are some conditions in India that are worth noting, for example. that under Modi's leadership India has gone from being the 28th worst country for Christians to be in, to the 11th worst country. National identity is increasingly linked to religious identity. The rhetoric from the movements there, also from the BJP, the leading party, is that if one is not Hindu, one is also not a loyal citizen of India. This is a disturbing trend in very many countries, not least in neighboring Pakistan, which is the third worst country for Christians to be in. But in general, many other religious minority groups are persecuted in Pakistan, and also in India. This applies not only to Christians; it also applies to Muslims. Another neighbourhood country is Myanmar, where the UN High Commissioner has expressed the fact that ethnic cleansing has been carried out against the Rohingya population. We also see how the Buddhist nationalist group operates there, along with Sri Lanka, just to link up the nationality of religion. Similar trends are also seen in Russia. In the Middle East in general, we know that there is a very difficult situation for religious minorities, and recently we have seen a development in Egypt that is further alarming, where blasphemy has been persecuted for a long time and now also wants to ban atheism – that by law you should persecute people by hand because they choose not to believe in anything. This is a disturbing development. I noticed that the Foreign Minister was on this topic, and it is good that the U.D. is on the prom and forward-looking also in the case of religious minorities. The Minister of Foreign Affairs addressed the issue of the fight against ISIL, and in some areas Europe has contributed in a very negative way. Between 4000 and 7,000 people — numbers vary slightly, depending on who you check with — have travelled from Europe to become foreign fighters. And we know that over 150 attacks and attacks in Europe are linked to at least one foreign fighter; in over 15 European countries, we know that there have been attacks. Here, the U.D. has a responsibility to make sure that Europe is able to disburse a common policy for this. It concerns legislation, recruitment and recruitment, participation and encouragement, training and training, and joining terrorist organisations. Having good legislation in European countries is important, having rules on what to do when foreign fighters return to their respective European countries and how to meet them, and not least what Europe should do to limit the propaganda available for self-radicalisation on the web. In the course of this extension, it is good that we should have a high degree of integration here at home, but we really also need a great degree of integration in Europe to be able to do what the Minister for Foreign Affairs was about – to have Community values in Europe, but also to be able to strengthen and substantiate them further. Finally, it is important that we safeguard Norwegian interests. I think it's important that we have a good relationship with the United States. Norway is needed globally, both in terms of gender equality, children’s rights and human rights in general, but in an increasingly uncertain world, it is important that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs engages in the broad field of action in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e418	I would like to start by thanking the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very good and comprehensive distribution. 2017 has been marked by serious crises, such as the nuclear threat from North Korea, ethnic cleansing in Myanmar and the wars in Syria and Yemen. Nevertheless, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs did, I will start by pointing out some developments that in many ways have also made 2017 a good year for our world. Every day in 2017, the number of people living in extreme poverty was reduced by 217 000. Every day last year 300,000 people were given access to clean water. And every day, 325,000 people got access to electricity. Yes, only since 1990 have more than 100 million children's lives been frightened by vaccines and other simple and basic health measures. There are serious crises in the world that are creating a dark backdrop for the debate today, but it is equally important not to overlook the progress we are actually seeing. As an commentator in the New York Times wrote for some time ago: the most important thing that is happening in the world right now is not a tweet from Trump, but that child life gets scared, and that there is great progress when it comes to health, education and well-being. It is important to note that what is going the right way is happening precisely because Norway and other countries continue to take responsibility, through both aid, peacemaking, democratic construction and increased and fairer trade. In the work of a more democratic development, we see sparkles, not least on the African continent. In Zimbabwe, the pressure from below was too great, so Robert Mugabe had to bow down to the will of the people and go off. In Ethiopia, the prime minister has gone off after a popular protest. In South Africa, Jacob Zuma was removed after increasing dissatisfaction with corruption and a poor government. Recently, we witnessed a democratic takeover of power in Liberia, where Ellen Johnson Sirleaf resigned as President and George Weah took over. It was the first time in 74 years that they had a peaceful handover of power from one democratically elected president to another. In the Gambia, a democratically elected president has taken over. Political awareness and participation are increasing in a number of countries. An important reason for this development is that civil society has increased in strength and influence. Another positive development that the Foreign Minister had in mind is the progress in the fight against ISIL in Iraq and Syria. Now it is important that the international community does not leave the areas controlled by the terrorist group in a vacuum of power politics that opens the way for new extreme groups. They need help rebuilding. The Sunni Muslim population must be included in society, not once again excluded. At the same time, minorities, like yezidians and Christians, must not be forgotten. Their security must be secure, cities and homes must be built up, and those behind genocide and terror must be held accountable. Wars in Syria and Yemen are the cause of unimaginable human suffering. It is important and right that Norway provides significant humanitarian aid. Norway should also stop all exports of arms and military material to countries that are warring in Yemen. A Norstat study shows that only 12 pst. by the Norwegian people think that this hall should continue. Finally, I would like to join the Foreign Minister in emphasising international cooperation, human rights and the work of the major multilateral organisations. International cooperation is crucial to address the major challenges of our time: the fight for the poor, persecuted and oppressed in the world, the work for peace and security and to address climate and environmental challenges. The Christian People's Party also supports the proposal by the representative Anniken Huitfeldt that the Stortinget beg the government to work for increased Norwegian participation in the peacekeeping operations of the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e443	Norway needs a responsible foreign policy based on democracy, Norwegian interests, international law and international solidarity, and we need a government that doesn't throw waste on these principles every time the US government will draw Norway into risky war adventures that create more problems than they solve. On Tuesday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs claimed that there was a consensus on the long lines of Norwegian foreign policy. It is regrettable that the Foreign Minister is misleading the elected representatives. In fact, in the last 15 years, Norway’s political elite have taken drastic steps away from what has been a major focus of Norwegian foreign and security policy since World War II. While Norway did not engage in a single attack war without a United Nations mandate from 1945 to 1999, Norwegian foreign policy has since become heavily militarized. It involves participation in a number of risky war experiments, often contrary to international law, without democratic transparency and debate and without a realistic assessment of the consequences. The basic policy, a supporter of Norwegian foreign and security policy throughout the post-war period, is now selling out to give Trump's US access to offensive military bases on Norwegian soil. In these days, a government-appointed sample works to evaluate Norway’s participation in the Libyan war. Red is the only party that pointed to the obvious violation of international law that was going to war without a UN mandate. We were the only party that warned against the civil suffering an illegal regime change war would bring on Libya's people. We were alone pointing out the obvious – that going to war with Saudi Arabia and other Islamic regimes and acting as the aircraft of Al Qaida allied groups would have disastrous consequences. After NATO's war of regime change, the wave of terror spread from Libya to the world. NATO's Libyan allies gained access to weapons that they passed on to allied terrorist groups in Africa, the Middle East and Europe, including Al Qaida, IS, Boko Haram and Al-Shabaab. Four years ago, the current Foreign Minister said that she was proud of Norway's bombing of Libya. The ease of dealing with the most extreme policy instrument and the irresponsible indifference to its consequences give cause for concern. It also violates the government's basic policy. The United States, without asking Norway for permission, has budgeted to convert the airport of Rygge into an American military airfield. General Robert Neller has already brought the American war rhetoric against Russia into Norway by telling his US Marines in Trøndelag that there is a great war with Russia on its way here. It has also been stated openly by the United States that Rygge is to be used for Baltic sea flights against Russia. So this is the United States of America, the Solberg government is now giving free rein to bring a deadly major reindeer to Norwegian soil. Red has an alternative to this irresponsible policy. Red will take the resources from the scandalous hunting flight that binds us to the U.S. risky attack wars in distant countries, and rather build a robust territorial defense. Saying no to future attackers means that Norway can once again become a credible defender of international law, which is the first line defense of all small nations in the face of militaryly superior major acts. Norway’s security is too important for the government to hide behind secrecy and fortitude. That's our call. Stand up and take the debate. Be honest when you want to take Norway to the wars of the United States. Take the debate on it in an open-ended magnificence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e459	It is tempting to comment a lot, and I will try to get through something. However, I think it is all right in the introduction to remind you of the three key priorities for Norwegian foreign policy that I laid down in my statement on Tuesday. One is to secure and safeguard Norway and Norwegian interests, with a clear transatlantic anchoring. The second is to contribute to a safe, free and economically strong Europe. The third is to work towards achieving sustainability objectives and maintaining and strengthening multilateral institutions and the international legal order. It is precisely because of our meeting with a more uneasy and unpredictable world that navigating after some – experimentally – safe points of view becomes so much more important. I have noted the comments that have come, and I note that there is no significant disagreement about the direction, but that someone wants to emphasize something more or less. It kind of fits well into a long tradition we have in Norway. But let me still include some comments. On the issue of UN peacekeeping operations: this is something Norway and other countries are continuously assessing — what can be a good contribution. It is also a risk assessment, precisely because UN operations are among the most dangerous and also because there are often areas where there is no peace to maintain. As late as two days ago, four soldiers were killed in Mali, in the MINUSMA operation, where Norway also participates. The Chairman of the Committee talks about contributions with the police, transport aircraft and field hospitals, and that is exactly what we are contributing to. Today we have 74 people, both police and military, in six different UN operations. The level we are at now has been, as a matter of fact, constant since 2005, with the exception of some peaks when we had field hospitals in Chad in 2009-2010, and when we had the transport aircraft contribution in Mali in 2016. We are going to have a new transport air transport contribution in Mali in 2019, following the Norwegian-initiated rotation system that came into place when I was Minister of Defence. I also think it is important to look at the questions that came from the Central Party. What's the interesting point in what the Center Party says, is that I was in almost all of the questions that were affected, and told how we wanted to solve them. On the issue of labour-related crime in Europe, which I believe is a very relevant question: the Prime Minister, as I explained to him, has taken an initiative on common European solutions. And that is very important, because labour crime can not only help to destroy the labour market and make conditions difficult for workers, but it can also help to undermine the economic growth Europe depends on. The fact that Norway has been so-called a spectator to the Brexit negotiations is not particularly strange all the time we are not a member of the EU, and the negotiations have hardly begun either. Let me also link some comments to what the representative Lightbaking said. The agreement on Norway’s military contribution to the fight against ISIL at Stortinget has been important. Today ISIL is so to say combated territorially. That doesn't mean that the fight is won, because there's still a lot left, but the fight is then won territorially. It has also liberated areas under ISIL’s brutal terror regime. People have started to be able to return to their home areas, and that's the result of an effort we've been making. So if everyone were to think like SV – and not take part in a common international responsibility – millions of people would still be under ISIL's terror fields. I have never said, and the government has never said, that these have been simple balances. On the contrary, we have explained very openly all the dilemmas it brings, all the areas in which you experience that the choices, which I had in my presentation, are often between different more or less difficult alternatives. However, we choose to act – as part of a large international coalition – because we believe it is right, and because we believe that the alternative to acting is worse. But yes, there are dilemmas, and there are just many of the dilemmas I think it has been important to talk about and present in connection with the presentation. I also thank too much and good attention for both human rights and not least something that Knut Arild Hareide spent a lot of his time on, namely the positive trends that, after all, are also dominant in the world now, and that we are too rarely talking about, precisely because the situations are often dramatic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e478	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e483	In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs was concerned about the importance of foreign policy for the protection of Norwegian interests. It was also now referred to as one of the most important areas. For the last four years, Norwegian industrial interests have been ahead of human rights. We have seen that when it comes to government talks with Israel, China, Saudi Arabia, Russia and, most recently, the United States. I fully understand that Norwegian interests are important in conversations with these countries, but they cannot trump the importance of ensuring that human rights are respected. In complicated situations, the government cannot continue to talk about human rights in the chamber – it has to come to light. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: How has the government addressed human rights with China, Saudi Arabia and Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e490	As the representative probably remembers, our bilateral relations with China are now normalized. We had the first meeting of the political consultation mechanism last August, and the human rights are part of the issues we are dealing with. We are also discussing human rights with the other two countries the representative mentioned, Saudi Arabia and Russia. I would like to stress that in many contexts the work of strengthening human rights in other countries is dependent on the use of intelligence and reason to get their views through. In many places in the world, human rights defenders and minorities are so vulnerable that they don't want to talk about it loudly and openly, because the persecution then increases. Sometimes it makes sense to talk loudly and openly about it. We have to choose instruments from the situation and what brings the best results for human rights. I disagree with the premise that Norwegian business has gone ahead of human rights. I have also not registered that there has been any wish on the part of the Workers' Party for a policy other than that which has been conducted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e499	Debate on values and community of values is both interesting, important and demanding. Countries have different languages, different history and culture and different traditions and religions, which it is important to have knowledge of. But going from it to defining some values as uniquely Norwegian, uniquely national or unique European, and as a contrast to values and values in other countries or on other continents, can have many unfortunate sides. The Minister for Foreign Affairs used the term ‘European Value Community’ in its orientation. My questions are: What are the values of my foreign minister uniquely European? How far back in time does this community of values go? And are these values that are unconsolidated in other continents?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e506	I have not spoken in any way about unique European or unique Norwegian values, rather on the contrary. But I've talked about living in company with countries with which we share a community of values. It is about respect for human rights, freedom of expression, the rule of law, democracy and a liberal world order. But that doesn't mean that these values don't exist anywhere else – and no one else has claimed. We are now seeing – as the representative Knut Arild Hareide had in mind – a very positive development in the area of peaceful takeovers and democratic solutions in Africa, which must also be taken into account. It's very positive. But just because we're talking about a community of values that also consists of democracies in Europe, it doesn't mean it doesn't happen anywhere else. So I'm a little bit curious about the premise for the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e513	This is a debate that has been going on for a long time in many European countries. I expect the Foreign Minister to be aware that there has been a discussion about precisely the wisdom of these values, because they are easily used and produced as a kind of unique European community that is in contrast to others. When I say that the debate is demanding and interesting, it is because these outlines can be used, interpreted and emphasised in a very different direction. It becomes very clear in the debate when a user uses expressions such as "Norwegian values" and "European values" that this is not something unique, but that it is broad, general values that are built up in many countries and on many continents, not to build an impression that we're talking about someone inside and someone outside - "we" and "the others". So I just want to wish the foreign minister the happiness of following up and being very clear and ready at this point, and I hope that all the government parties are behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e518	Right now, I guess not so many other people than the representative Steinar Ness are creating uncertainty as to whether it should be only Norwegian or only European values. It's not expressions that I've used, either in the statement or in other contexts. I think it's an important point all the way to stress that it's important for us that the basic values we have in common with other countries are values we work to promote, whether it be in Europe, in Africa, in Asia or elsewhere. It is important to note that many of the values and rights are under considerable pressure. It's also one of the reasons why we want to find good ways for Norway to work multilaterally, just to stress that those values are universal. It is also one of the reasons why we are trying to work in two regions of the United Nations — just to underline that this is a multi-site community of values. But it does not exclude that we have a close and close community of values in Europe, on which we build very much of our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e525	If I were the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would be a little bit more careful with the somewhat worn-out speech on the consensus in the Norwegian foreign policy debate, for this debate shows that there are at least three parties, the Central Party, SV and Red, who collectively represent a significant number of voters who stand for a different course from that of the government. A relevant question is thus the question of Norwegian military participation in Niger and the Sahel region. In a written reply to me, the Minister of Defense writes that it is not appropriate to use Norwegian soldiers to combat migration, but she at the same time confirms that it may be relevant to send Norwegian soldiers to Niger. My question is then: how topical is it, and what should these soldiers do in that case?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e532	This is a question that needs to be addressed first and foremost to the Minister of Defence, but, as the representative Lysbakken certainly remembers, in my time as Minister of Defence, I repeatedly briefed the enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee on different capacity-building and practice scenarios that could be relevant for Norwegian soldiers to participate in for shorter periods. I have made it very clear – the Minister for Defence has also done so in his reply – that if it is to be the case, it will, of course, require political treatment. So in that case you get to come back to it. Having said that, I also believe it is important that Norway, as I signaled at a meeting on Sahel in Brussels a week and a half ago, helps support civilian components in Sahel's own construction of its security forces. What we actually do is we want to spend $15 million. to contribute to training in international humanitarian law and human rights and to actions that can contribute to building trust between Sahel's own strength, consisting of soldiers from the Sahel countries, and the local population in the areas in which they are to operate. This is an initiative that is also very welcome by the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e539	I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Norwegian foreign policy has been characterised by consensus and that we have been united. Not least when we are to have international office. Thorbjørn Jagland in the Council of Europe boasted of the efforts of the Solberg government to make him Secretary-General there. What we can now experience is that if we want to have a seat in the UN Security Council, other countries, which also want to do so, can rightly say that the second largest government party in Norway is in the pulpit of our National Assembly and says that that place does not want Norway to have. That is why my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: had she wanted full support for Norway to have a place in the UN Security Council? Then I think in particular of the parties that are in her government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e547	This is a question the current government has taken a decision up to several times, and what we have wanted. We now provide regular progress reports on how work is going. We're going into a new phase from the summer of, which becomes important. We have – as I was in my introduction – strong and good competitors in Canada and Ireland. But at the same time, we believe that Norway has a good chance again, 20 years after last time, to be able to enter the UN Security Council. We do that with full support from the government. That's an important point. I want to take the opportunity to point out what I said about involving the Storting: For the government, it is important that the Storting is also part of this campaign. It will be important in the big message on multilateral issues presented in spring 2019, but it will also be important for the government to involve the Stortinget in other ways in time, because it could contribute positively to the campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e554	The military contribution to the fight against ISIL is the difference of opinion, but the Labour Party has supported the way the government has implemented it. But a clear experience after the Afghanistan evaluation was that there was no clear exit strategy – nor was there such a very clear goal. The contribution has now changed from being a territorial fight against ISIL to strengthening and supporting Iraqi security forces in the fight against terrorism. My question is: what is the exit strategy now, what is the goal of the current contribution, and what will the government do to ensure that this discussion is taken up in an open-ended way? There are different opinions, we've supported it by my party, but we're all well served that there's an open public discussion on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e561	It is important that there is a broad majority behind the policy of government linked to participation in the major global fight against ISIL. I am also very concerned that for the future we will have the good discussions we have had – both in DUUFK, when necessary, and in the open hall, when necessary. Of course, the government will contribute to open discussions about it, if the Storting wants it. I disagree that the assignment has changed. It has never been said that this is just a matter of territorial combating ISIL. On the contrary, the government has been very clear that we need to put in place a wide range of instruments – both military, economic and political – to deal with the threat posed by ISIL. Right now we're in a phase how much of the territory has been taken back. Then it is extremely important to continue a stabilisation effort, both humanitarian, long-term and military, to prevent the return of ISIL.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e568	Red believes that it is irresponsible to bring the conflict between the United States and Russia to Norwegian territory, as the government's violation of basic policy implies. We want to know how the U.S. authorities have been able to plan, investigate and budget for U.S. base on Rygge for months, without the Norwegian people being told anything about this. The government said they didn't know anything about the Trump government's plans for Rygge until it was advertised in the US National Budget. The ignorance of its own responsibilities is so unimaginable that it reminds us of what we have witnessed from the party trap of the Council of State in connection with the building scandal here on the Stortinget. I want to ask the Council of State if it really is that the US authorities may have investigated, planned and budgeted for an American military airbase in Norway, without anyone in the Norwegian government having known anything about these plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e577	Here it is so much wrong that I can't get it done in 1 minute, but I would probably advise the representative Moxnes to take a little breath. Of course, it's not like the U.S. is building an American base on Rygge. There is still no political decision on how Norway should respond to the wishes of the United States to be able to land flights in a special situation. I think that there is also a reason why the representative should take a breath when it comes to basic policy. So there is a broad consensus in the UK about the basic policy and the government's interpretation of the basic policy, as it has been over the years, as different governments have interpreted the basic policy. That the United States, like NATO, looks at the possibilities of making security guarantees credible by practicing and training and by having activity in allied countries, is nothing new. That's how we've been since we joined NATO, and that's how we're going to keep having it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e586	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e591	The Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his statement that ‘we must always remember that history is still influenced by our political choices’. I totally agree with her. She also said, ‘A responsible foreign policy means that we have to deal with the world as it is, with all its complexity and dilemmas. Only then can we take advantage of our space of action. Only then can we be part of the agenda and shape the development." I am in favour of Norway taking much more responsibility and being involved in shaping development. I think it's time to discuss what it means to be a good ally. A good ally is not just an ally who is there on everyone's premises. A good ally is also one who asks questions, who makes demands and not just blindly. Being a politician isn't just about saying things, it's about doing something. Although the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde mentioned that it was almost a problem that the donor country group for Palestine did not just give money, I believe on the contrary that it is good that the donor country group does not just give money. I think it is good, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, that Norway's leadership in the donor country group also means that we are involved in a development. The support given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his speech is that as leaders of the donor country group for Palestine, we are involved in ensuring broad international support for Palestinian state construction and economic development. That support may be international, but the support has not gone completely into the government party Progress Party, as we heard earlier. Now it is not certain that the advice on construction is well received from someone in this house a day, but a good builder can not just sit and see that what is being built up is torn down while you are at it. Right now it seems that the only construction work that gets to stand in Palestine is a bricklayer. State-building is about establishing institutions for operational services and democracy, transport structures, education, health and defence. But national construction is equally important for there to be someone there to repair, for there to be someone there to maintain the institutions, some to continue democracy, some to use it, some to use their education for something. To do that, you need hope, faith in the future, and trust. There are three of the most important variables for building a new nation, especially a nation as young as the Palestinian population. These variables are very important. That's why they're also used, with the opposite sign, in war. The absence of the three leads to active destabilisation. That's what makes generational wars so effective, they work in the long term. There are people who rebel, but is it the rebellion, or is that the cause of the rebellion, which is the problem? Since Trump's recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel on December 6, 2,900 Palestinians have been injured. Five have been killed. All five of them were younger than me. The number of house rails has increased. The number of house reefs in the occupied East Jerusalem has increased. The UN documented 336 night raids only in January. Last year I spoke to a former Israeli soldier, who said that his main task was to create fear. It's not a defense. It's something completely different. The Israeli army arrested 1,467 Palestinian minors in 2017. Pending legal proceedings, an isola top team of up to 23 days has been registered. Having come out of such a stay, anxiety, sleep problems, concentration problems, and not least the lack of ability to look ahead will be left in interviews. Those who are over 16 are convicted as adults. Everything that comes under the term ‘security threat’ can give up to 20 years in prison. You can't build a 42-year-old country that's grown up in prison to stand up for something. In his statement, the Foreign Minister described Norway as the good ally we are to be, and continues to be. But I am concerned that the situation and destabilization that have come as a direct consequence of the recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel was not one of the concerns she raised when she outlined the problems of Trump's presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e628	Thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a broad, comprehensive and good foreign policy presentation with clear priorities for Norwegian foreign policy, a statement that makes it clear that we are involved in international governance in both foreign policy, development policy and security policy. With some surprise, I must note that the chairman of the committee and I could not possibly have heard the same statement. The primary task of foreign policy is to promote Norwegian interests and values, while also enabling national policies to promote prosperity and security. The development of recent years has clearly shown that foreign policy is not only national, it is very much local. Norway is an open society with an open economy, and our development, our own security and well-being are strongly influenced and determined by both processes and actors beyond the borders of Norway. We therefore depend on us to play with our neighbouring countries, allies and trading partners – and with us. To the right, it is important that we pursue a realistic foreign policy based on clear priorities, as we heard in the presentation two days ago. Foreign policy must achieve actual results for the Norwegian people. In this area, too, the policy is up to the exam in this meeting. To the right, it is the lead that Norway should respect its obligations in the international community, within the UN, NATO, the EEA, the WTO and other international organisations, and that we should be both loyal and committed partners for neighbouring countries and for countries that need our help. It may be important – in many places it is worrying – that we actually contribute actively. I am probably somewhat surprised that the head of the Committee is more concerned with the calendar and priorities of the Council of State than with making the Workers' Party's own alternatives to foreign policy visible. I am also surprised that there is a call for more disagreement and criticism in foreign policy and the international cooperation that we have, all the time when Norway is not a major force. We are a small country, we have a lot to contribute, and we contribute in a lot of areas. But we also deserve to be able to agree on the important priorities in which foreign policy is moving. I am also surprised that there are repeated calls for more disagreement and more criticism – to refer to the committee leader – and repeat what I see as not entirely compatible with the truth, when you say that you move away from the 2 % of GDP, when you know that this is a ten-year plan, that every big GDP in the year before will necessarily have a falling percentage, whereas, on the other hand, you would have an increasing percentage, that this would have to be seen in a decade's perspective, and that this has actually been agreed. The fact that more disagreement is called for may well be wise and necessary for the debate, but at least it must be with a true starting point. In conclusion, I'm just going to draw attention to our relationship with the United States, which has been close and well throughout the post-war period. It's important to us. The United States has also rightly been seen as a strong and stable guarantor for the security of our country. However, in recent years Washington has signalled a reduced willingness to global leadership, but it is important to note that for Norway it is positive that the United States continues its security and alliance policy towards Europe, that we have close cooperation in NATO, and that Norway has a well-developed and well-functioning bilateral security cooperation with the United States. The United States is our closest ally, and a good bilateral relationship is important to us. I also feel that there is a broad consensus on this in Stortinget – most recently the Prime Minister's meeting with President Trump on 10 January confirmed precisely this relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e645	The Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed to an international situation characterised by conflicts, confrontations, polarisation and uncertainty. At the same time, several points of reference that created security are absent – as respect for international agreements and institutions. It also characterizes some of our important partners and allies. In the United States, we have a president who withdraws the country from climate cooperation, creates uncertainty in trade policy and undermines the WTO dispute resolution mechanism. In the United Kingdom, Brexit creates considerable uncertainty – in the United Kingdom, in the EU and for us. Even within the government there seems to be great confusion. Of course, we must respect the decision to leave the EU and EEA cooperation, but it is demanding to see the rationale behind the objectives pursued. One thing is that they're going to take back control of their own legislation and immigration, but when they bring up the goal of becoming the world's leading trade nation, it becomes more mysterious. The country leaves its main export market, where 47 pst. exports are carried out seamlessly with neighbouring countries. They leave trade agreements with about 50 other countries. To the United States, the British only export 16 pst. of its exports. Trade Minister Liam Fox says that economic growth will come to an end outside Europe and that the United Kingdom must therefore have the freedom to negotiate trade agreements there. But they leave the EU trade agreements with countries such as Singapore, South Korea, Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia and Japan. Even with the Commonwealth countries, EU-wide agreements with 41 out of 50 countries will soon be possible. It is difficult to understand which countries you see, but it is now the British headache. I believe this is one of several expressions of the political irrationality that characterizes the international picture. It's worrying. For us, the challenge is to secure a trade agreement with the British to replace the EEA Agreement. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the ambition is to ‘establish as close and comprehensive relations with the United Kingdom as possible’. It is a slightly lower ambition than European Minister Vik Aspaker expressed in his first presentation after Brexit. In fact, on 8 November 2016, she said that the ambition is ‘like good access to the UK market for Norwegian business’ as it is today. It is, as the British now experience painfully, not possible to do without the British remaining in the internal market, and there is little to suggest that will be the result. But the government has our support in negotiating for ‘as close and comprehensive relationships as possible’, as she expressed it. [[...]] And it is important to ensure that the transitional arrangements agreed between the UK and the EU also cover the EEA territory. The contact we have had with the British after Brexit has revealed a major lack of knowledge about what the EEA Agreement is, and is not, with our British colleagues. That's not so strange, because why should they be interested in it, as long as they were a member of the EU? What is more worrying is that there are major gaps in knowledge and recognition of the importance of the EEA Agreement at home as well. The research and the environments that were built when membership was on the agenda are in the process of becoming confused and going out on date. A number of researchers, institutions and research centres have called for warnings. Not only Brexit but also developments in the EU require knowledge and understanding of development and processes. We need increased research efforts to build knowledge about the EU and development in Europe. Analysis of how this works for us, and our ability to care for our interests, must be based on a sound professional understanding of how EU cooperation works. This must be taken seriously by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Research and ensure an economic basis for long-term basic research in this important area in the future. It should be an important element of the strategy that governments are now developing for our cooperation with the EU in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e664	Last week I attended the NATO Parliamentary Conference in Brussels. There were politicians from 29 countries who were concerned with the security of their own country, but who also realise that the security of their own country depends on the presence of other countries. NATO is, in fact, Europe's only defence alliance and has contributed to Europe's ability to have peace for 70 years. SACEUR said it well: Deepest is in the role of NATO talking about defending our values, defending our way of life and our democracy. It has been claimed in the debate today that Norwegian basic policy is on track. That's not right. The basis for Norwegian base policy was that Norway should not be used as a marshal for foreign powers in something that could be perceived as a threat and a possible attack on nations outside of us. However, in Norwegian basic policy, it has been possible to operate with allied training, and it is now more training with allies than it has been in the past 25 years. It's an answer, it's a reaction that Russia has doubled its military spending since 2005 – we're stepping up our defenses. In the news now – right now – there's a news from Russia that Putin and Russia will strengthen the military infrastructure in the Arctic by 1 600 billion. kr. As a small nation lying between two major powers, we must have a conscious relationship with this and also make our moves to safeguard our national security. The 2-percent rate has been mentioned here today, and it is true that the United States is carrying a disproportionate share of NATO military expenditure. But if you look at what you're doing in Norway, you're actually going to get 180 billion. kr more to the Defence during the long-term planning period, and since 2013 defence expenditure has increased by 11.5 billion. kr. The representative Huitfeldt of the Workers' Party called for more disagreement in foreign policy. Why? Defence and foreign policy is not a toy gate. It's not a study circle where you have to break your own rhetoric and almost practice a foreign policy rhetoric. It's too serious for it – too serious. The nobility of Norwegian security and foreign policy has been our ability to stand together broadly in this room to safeguard our own national interests as the small nation we are, which is exposed to between two major powers. NATO's command structure is the military glued in peacetime, but it is also the structure to ensure that NATO operates in a war situation. Norway has been a driving force for strengthening the military command in the North Atlantic in a better way today and has had an impact on it. The transatlantic link goes through the Atlantic in a conflict situation, and having free access to the Atlantic and being able to dispose of the military capabilities in a powerful way is crucial for Norway’s security. Our Russia policy is characterized by firmness, dialogue and cooperation. We have extensive cooperation in resource management. The Barents Sea is a success story. While the other oceans are submerged, it spawns, to say it like that, more than ever in the Barents Sea. Border cooperation works well, and search and rescue works well. But Norway is NATO in the north. We're lying there, and we have a role on behalf of NATO that only we can do in NATO. The strategic capacities we need in the north to be able to exercise authority, have situational understanding and be able to make the right decisions about the situation should be there, suggest that we now invest in new surveillance aircraft, new fighter aircraft, new coastguard vessels and have strengthened intelligence. It strengthens our security, and it strengthens the security of the 29 countries that met in Brussels last week, including individually and collectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e684	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e689	Thank you very much to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. I disagree with a lot of things, but I want to make it clear that she has a great deal of overview and presents foreign policy with broad knowledge. I would like to raise a completely different issue, which has not been raised in the foreign debate so far. This is about the division, the conflict, in the Council of Europe. It is a matter that has received little attention in the Norwegian public, but which has a significant impact on the Norwegian role in Europe — and, to a large extent, on Norwegian security. The starting point is that, following the annexation of Crimea, the EU issued a number of sanctions against Russia. This was followed up by the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly also issued sanctions against Russia, including: by depriving Russia of the right to vote in the Parliamentary Assembly. The Norwegian delegation supported this at the time, with the exception of the SV representative. The consequence today is that the Council of Europe is divided, the Russian conflict permeates almost all debates in the Council of Europe, Russia does not participate in the Parliamentary Assembly and does not pay the quota, and there is also active lobbying from Ukraine to push Russia out of the Council of Europe. This is a very serious situation because there is now an active fear that Russia will withdraw entirely from the Council of Europe. As a result, nationalist forces in Russia are being strengthened. The human rights situation is further strengthened because 140 million Russians do not have access to the European Court of Human Rights, if Russia withdraws completely. It also has consequences for Europe, and I take it up because it also has consequences for Norway. If Russia withdraws, or is pushed out with different mechanisms, it may also lead to Azerbaijan, Turkey and Poland being included in the same draft. In other words, the Council of Europe will crack during this period. This will, of course, weaken the most important body we have today to hold Europe together and to have a European court, which is actually the only court we have in the world of the kind of supranational nature. This also has security policy implications because, in such a situation, the hostile image of Russia will be further enhanced, and demands for upgrading in Europe will increase. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs – whether she can answer it today or on a later occasion – is what kind of strategy the U.D. has to help the Council of Europe not crack, and how she will support the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe in his efforts to keep the Council of Europe together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e704	There was a statement that was in many areas of which there is a broad consensus. I think the Foreign Minister put it in a good way. At the same time, it is interesting to look at what changes need to be in policy, policy adjustments, and especially when we are faced with the fact that we have received a new foreign minister not long ago and that has a new responsibility that the foreign minister has not had in recent years. We are facing a new government in which new parties participate. If it is as the representative of the Rivers suggests, that there are no changes at all, then that is a good thing, but it must also be expressed. What's interesting is whether there are any new initiatives, some new ambitions, some new policies that form the basis. In the government statement of the current government there are some new signals about changes, such as: in the field of trade policy. It says that it will work to reduce customs duties in order to contribute to more free trade. There is, therefore, a government that is to actively contribute to the weakening of Norwegian customs protection. Not only will a meeting meet the challenges you have internationally when others try to do this, but we have a government that has an ambition to weaken customs protection on Norwegian behalf. What does this mean in concrete terms? What kind of initiative does it intend to take? And how will this affect Norwegian interests, not least the interests of the food industry, the largest mainland industry in Norway? The red-green government stood up for customs protection, and not only that, one also contributed to strengthening customs protection in some areas, among others. related to the so-called ostetoll, to strong protests from the very parties that are now the government. Therefore, there is extra reason to ask the government to clarify what is contained in the statement at this point. So to what is stated by the Minister, Norwegian exports to the EU depend on the EEA Agreement. Of course, it is not what we have exported to the EU for a long time and a long time before the EEA Agreement. The fact that one eats Norwegian fish in France, Poland and Denmark in increasing numbers is not due to decisions in Brussels. On the other hand, it's what the representative of Riveres was in, because we've had a successful resource management in Norway where we've had access to the resources, the key to the value creation we've had in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e715	First, I'm going to do something I don't like to do, and it's taking the representative Tybring-Gjedde in defense. Some have been concerned that he has talked about the policy of the Progress Party and not the government's policy in the debate today. I actually think it's an advantage to know what the different parties mean. Our party met the same criticism every time we did not talk about finished speech points the years we were in government – including those that make up the majority of the day. I think that compromise is a natural and necessary part of the policy, and that honesty about what is compromise and not, is actually an advantage for an open debate. I often disagree with the representative Tybring-Gjedde says, but I would like to know what he means. The disagreements I think we're going to get back to quickly – already in the next case. I signed a small explanation of vote related to the Labour Party's proposal on UN peacekeeping operations. SV has a fundamentally positive view of participation in peacekeeping operations. We have wanted a greater proportion of Norway's foreign involvement to be carried out with blue helmets, and that we should be positive to increased western and increased Norwegian participation in UN operations. In this way, we share the intention of the Workers' Party's proposal. However, I am concerned that we are dealing with each assignment separately. There is a great seriousness in sending Norwegian soldiers to operations abroad, and although we are fundamentally positive to UN operations, in those cases we also need to evaluate the individual operation separately. In addition, for SV, the total volume of soldiers sent out of the country is important, and it would have been easier for us to vote for a proposal that said something about it – the balance between UN missions and other missions. Therefore, SV will not vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal, but I would like to stress very clearly that it does not imply a refusal to participate in UN operations. If it is proposed by the government, it is likely that SV will support it. That's how I also perceive the government's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e724	First, I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Foreign Minister for his good work, but when it comes to today's debate, I'm surprised that, in a world of unrest, the Labour Party naturally calls for greater confrontational foreign debates here with us. I would think that in the time we're now in, we would have had a greater need to show unity for what we're actually some about -- maybe more important than for a long time. Norway has a very important role to play in international cooperation. It is a task to be viewed collectively. Minister of Foreign Affairs Eriksen Soreide has previously responded to the corresponding attack by the Labour Party when it owes it to the claim to weaken Norway's example. The U.D. has made an in-depth assessment of an OSCE Presidency in 2020 and concluded that it will require great political attention, human resources, capacity and economy. Addressing other required work abroad requires prioritisation. The UN Security Council and Brexit candidateship requires considerable use of resources in the U.D. We need a good holistic priority of operations, with strong ambassadors in Europe at a time when we are forced to be strong. I believe that Norway will be able to do it too without having the chairmanship of the OSCE. I am myself a participant and representative of Norway in the OSCE, and I believe that we will manage it well ourselves without having the Presidency role. The representative Huitfeldt talks about the danger of irresponsible double play. I totally agree with that. It's very unfortunate, and in that context, I would remind you that the Labour Party actually cut 50 million. kr in its alternative budget – just where the financing of an OSCE Presidency might be taken from.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e737	I would now like to thank you, quite at the bottom of the debate, for the debate, but I would also like to comment on some questions and comments that have been made. To the reference from Jette F. Christensen to making the Norwegian position visible to the Americans' decision to move the embassy to Jerusalem, I would say that it has been very clearly communicated from the Norwegian side that we disagree with the resolution, because we believe it is part of the absolutely essential final status issues on which it has to be negotiated. We were also among the 129 countries that agreed with other allied and related countries in the Resolution of the General Assembly, and it is worth noting that only nine countries voted against. There were 33 countries that abstained from voting. So otherwise 129 voted in favour. As far as the question from Petter Eide is concerned, it is also important to be aware that this is a issue that is now a top priority for the Council of Europe, but it is a problem that we also work a lot on. I had a meeting with Thorbjørn Jagland a little while ago, among other things. on this issue and on a number of other issues that are now challenging for the Council of Europe. We also had a good discussion with the delegation from the Storting to the Council of Europe in advance of the previous session. Of course, it is entirely up to the Storting and parliamentarians to decide how to vote and decide in the Council of Europe, but what I pointed out from our side, which I regard as worrying, is in particular the point that Petter Eide makes, namely that it will enable Russian citizens to risk losing access to the Human Rights Court. It would be a big step backwards, and we've also made it clear. In the end, I support that explanation of vote – I would have almost said – as the representative Lysbakken gave. From the Norwegian side, we are very concerned to be able to contribute to UN operations where relevant, and where there are contributions we can make. That's why we've gone ahead to develop niche contributions, whether on this rotational scheme, which I talked about in my post, which is very important, and which are very well received in the UN, where we're going to have a new rotation in 2019, or innovative police contributions or intelligence capabilities. There are contributions that are very much in demand in the United Nations and that it is important to be able to contribute. But at the same time, it is important to be aware – and we have discussed this in other forums in Stortinget in the past – that the risk profile of the job is something we need to assess from time to time. That means that, even if we are looking for opportunities to participate in several UN operations, we have to take into account the safety of the soldiers, and unfortunately it is in many contexts bad in UN operations, and that is something we always have to take into consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e748	I took the floor because the representative Eidsheim occupied this toy gate of a debate arena, as Harek Elvenes mentioned it as before. But I want to take this opportunity as I stand here to thank you for a good presentation, and not least for a very good summary from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who shows some of the noble mark in the way we discuss foreign policy in Norway: we agree on the big lines, and then we use these debates to remind each other of what is important, to press each other to move Norwegian foreign policy to a better place. We are doing well together, so I respond to Eidsheim's posts – I see she has left the hall. That is not how the foreign policy debate works. She went up here and problemated that the Workers' Party is running with polemics in foreign policy. That's what's good, that we discuss, that we raise these questions, that we put on each other, that we challenge each other. This is how we find out how Norway’s foreign policy is. Yes, we may disagree on a single point of view – that is also good – but I find it worrying that a representative of the Right Government Party, the same party to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs belongs, is up and warning against debate. It is directly devastating for the way in which we operate in this committee and for the way in which we create the good foreign policy for Norway. I said in my post – and reminds the Minister for Foreign Affairs – that it is right that there are two sides to a case. But there are not two sides to international law, there are not two sides of human rights, there are not two sides of right and wrong. I think creating discussion is important. We agree on the target. What I took up in my post was e.g. a problematization of Israel's imprisonment for Palestinian children, and I know the Foreign Minister agrees with me. I know that the Foreign Minister does not agree that it is good to put children in prison. Just these arenas, where we can challenge each other and remind each other of what's important to discuss and what's important to fight for, are important. Therefore, I use the opportunity to respond when the representative Eidsheim is up and says that there should be no debate in foreign policy. I totally disagree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e759	There is a broad consensus on Norwegian foreign policy. It's a force, but at the same time it's a disadvantage. The disadvantage is that there will not be enough discussion about important road choices. I feel that the former foreign minister was relatively hairy when it came to getting criticism. I want the new foreign minister to be more open to discussion, because even if we agree on the main lines – in the way, in the strategy – we should address the challenges we face as a small country. We have to discuss what is reality, but also what strategy choices we're going to make. I noticed from the Right representatives in the Chamber today – I spoke that it was approx. nine conscious misunderstandings of my post – that it has been referred to things I should have said from this pulpit, which I have not said at all – and that with my foreign policy I shall contribute to more conflict. I've never said that. That, I think, contributes to a devastating foreign policy discussion. We're going to have a discussion about road choices. But conscious misunderstandings, that one is offended by things that have never been said, I believe that I am helping to destroy the foreign policy change of words. I believe that the important thing today is that we have mentioned whether we should send more UN soldiers on international missions. There's a lot of lots of parties involved in it. I look forward to a more open discussion about these things. I also believe that the contribution to Iraq, supported by the Workers' Party, should also give rise to more discussion in an open-ended process. We have been given the presentation and evaluation of Afghanistan, and there have been various discussions about it. We're about to get an evaluation of the Libya operation. It's also important to get an open discussion about it. But when we send people out in international operations, as elected representatives, we have a responsibility to bring the discussion out to the public. Confident misunderstandings in foreign policy vocabulary make it a worse, not a better discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e770	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 3 and 4 are processed together. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e799	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven rows of replies be given from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e812	This is an annual session where we're trying to break up on each other about the export of defense equipment, which is a little bit unique compared to all the other exports. I understand that. The thing is this time it's two-part, and it does it a little bit differently. Report. St. 5 for 2017-2018 deals with the exports of defence equipment in 2016, including the export control. We are also dealing with an SV representative proposal on stoppages in the export of arms, armaments and multifunctional goods to the countries intervening in Yemen, and that Norway should make the parties responsible for violations of humanitarian law and any war crimes. I've reworded that text a little bit, but I think that's what's really the intention. I assume that SV will take up their own proposal and discuss and explain it. I will of course comment on this at the end of my post. Different minorities promote a number of proposals in the matter. All the proposals agree that they wish to impose restrictions and restrictions on Norwegian exports of defence equipment. It is a little strange that there are no proposals to facilitate better export of Norwegian defence equipment or to make it easier for the defence industry to develop products, technology, employ people and use multi-use technologies. You're dealing with this as if it should always be limited. It is this matter that is very much affected by: everything should be limited. All the income we live on, and that we spend in our alternative budgets, must be limited. Either this case, oil and gas or a number of other cases — it has to be limited. However, the money is still spent – the money that does not really exist, because the income that the state receives today has already been restricted. As a general comment, I would like to point out that the opposition is opening doors. Norwegian export control is strict and is largely in line with our European NATO allies. Developments in the production of defence systems and defence equipment are increasingly being internationalised and, for this reason, national export legislation cannot vary significantly. Should Norway be able to compete for supplies of components and subsystems for major international development projects, it goes without saying that the Norwegian authorities cannot impose specific export control requirements. Despite repeated detailed explanations as to why it will not be possible for the defence industry, several parties continue to propose different forms of implementation of the retail declaration. I would therefore like to reiterate the reason why the introduction of such a declaration would be a dagger for the Norwegian defence industry. ‘Dolk’ is perhaps an interesting word in this context, but it should not be. Point 1: Leading defence companies in several countries develop and produce components that are part of larger systems. Point 2: The transmission system operator incorporates these components into a main system, such as a fighter aircraft, a submarine, a frigate, a helicopter or an artillery. In other words, we have defence systems consisting of advanced components from several countries. Section 3: Usually there is only one supplier of the advanced individual components of the system. This means that no deliveries of the final product can take place without all the participants in the national industry delivering their part deliveries as foreseen. Point 4: In most cases, final assembly and completion of the final product take place in only one nation. It is then this nation's export control legislation that regulates the export of the final product. For example, Norwegian subcontracts to German submarines assembled and produced by ThyssenKrupp refer to German export legislation. Subcontracts to US fighter aircraft produced and assembled by Lockheed Martin will have to deal with US export legislation. Point 5: Introduction of the end-user declaration means that entries are made on re-exports of parts and components which are part of a larger system. For example, such an export premise would mean that eight national export codes would determine separately how, for example, the fighter aircraft F-35 can and cannot be exported to, or that Norway, as a supplier of engines, would prevent, inter alia, the export of: AMRAM missiles from the United States and France. Of course, the United States can have important strategic alliances globally that Norway does not necessarily have, and interests other than Norway, and that they will export, for example. fighter aircraft to countries other than Norway would naturally accept. German and American export rules are different from Norwegian ones, and possibly these countries will accept exports to countries that would not have allowed the Norwegian export code, as I mentioned. The end-user declaration requirement will put an end to such further exports. No system vendor will be able to accept such a supply uncertainty, and the result is that the Norwegian subcontractor loses its mission for all deliveries, both to countries that we would have accepted, and to countries that we would not have accepted. Because it is so expensive to develop components – it can take several years – you will not have two suppliers of the same component. That's why we're working together, so it's going to be the cheapest way to put together a plane, and so we get the cooperation we want. We can't choose on the top shelf and say that we want to deliver components only to the planes that are included in an export that we accept. It provides security of supply and will not be accepted by the main supplier. In the next instance, it means that Norwegian defence companies lose their jobs and all Norwegian advanced niche production will have to stop. That's the logic of the market. As the Norwegian market is too small, all Norwegian defence companies are dependent on deliveries outside the borders of Norway. In other words, the introduction of end-user declaration requirements means the hook on the door for all the Norwegian defence industry. Yes, we have niche production in Norway that is not exported — although mostly so — but it is exported to, for example, Norway. Kongsberg or Nammo, who re-export this to larger systems. The defence industry and export control are an integral part of Norwegian defence and security policy. A viable defence industry provides security of supply. A viable defence industry cannot live on its own but depends on exports to make money. Yes, defence companies also need to make profits to pay employees, provide returns to shareholders, reinvest in new technologies, new projects and new activities. The defence industry also provides revenue to the state – revenues that, as I mentioned, all parties on the Stortinget would like to use, without conscientious qualms, once they are there, no matter where they come from. As mentioned above, exports of defence equipment are carried out almost exclusively through multinational cooperation. Multinational cooperation ensures interdependence and links allies. Such an alliance between defence companies can be as important as high- and low-level talks between politicians. That's exactly what creates alliances and communities, especially within NATO. It's not something that comes of itself – it's the collaboration that does it. That is exactly why we have very good cooperation between the Norwegian and American defence industries, which makes it natural that politicians also cooperate. This is a mutual relationship that we're totally dependent on. We can't sit down alone and say that we don't want to be involved in this. It also has implications for Norwegian security policy. 2016 was a good year for the Norwegian defence industry. Export increased by 10 pst. from the previous year, and goods and services were exported from Norway to a value of nearly 4.6 billion. kr. We should all be proud of that. The ability of the defence industry to develop, produce and sell high technology is something we all benefit from. Norway therefore has a well-balanced export legislation that allows competition under the same conditions as our competitors and countries of cooperation. In this way, we make Norway and NATO stronger and more interconnected. The Norwegian defence industry is high-tech and competitive and is a leading industry for the development of multi-use technology in Norway. An up-to-date and living defence industry is important for Norway. It is important for technology development, jobs, subcontracting, development of related, related technologies, such as drone technologies, robotics, space technologies and environmental technologies. For Norway, there is also district policy without subsidies. The unique cooperation with the FFI, the Swedish Defence Research Institute, should also be highlighted. We have good researchers at the FFI who are researching technology for the defence of Norway, but who are also actively used in state-owned companies – for Kongsberg and Nammo are semi-state owned companies – that can also be used back and forth and provide an interaction that is completely unique to Norway and that other countries cannot use. We need to stress that this is very important for Norway, for income, for industry. We need to maintain a defence industry to which we do not set specific requirements. I can't repeat this often enough. It is so important that we understand this and do not use special foreign policies and special conflicts and special countries, which limit Norwegian exports of defence material. It is the expertise of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that has to assess this, not the approach of invasion of the Storting, where a civil war or a conflict is discovered here and there, and it is believed that it will lead Norwegian export control. It can't be like that, and it can't be like that. All industries depend on stable framework conditions. This is particularly true of the defence industry. This is because the development of components, subsystems and systems often goes over several years. It is then to know that you have a customer at the other end, absolutely crucial. The defence industry is also unique, as there is only one customer in each country. With this as a hindrance, it is very unfortunate that several parties are trying to regulate the framework conditions for the industry in detail. It is also a completely new practice for the majority of population to instruct the government in how to manage an established export code – and at a country level. This is, of course, a gift package for industrial competitors, which will naturally point out the lack of reliability and credibility of the Norwegian defence industry as a supplier. SV's concern about developments in Yemen is shared by government parties. The UN reports show that the situation in Yemen is deeply serious and has evolved into a humanitarian crisis. For this reason, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is showing considerable vigilance and makes individual assessments of exports to the countries participating in the Yemen military coalition. As a result, as early as 2016, the government temporarily withheld the export of ammunition to the United Arab Emirates. In other words, it is a strict practice of the precautionary principle. This line is solid, and in December 2017, the government decided to suspend all sales of A-materials to the United Arab Emirates and tighten the practice of exporting other B-materials and multifunctional goods to the countries participating in the Saudi war in Yemen. In addition, Norwegian export legislation has never allowed the sale of A-material to Saudi Arabia. We have licensed the sale of B-materials in the form of electrical equipment for the large sum of – hold on – NOK 23 000. It's not even half a month's pay for deposit agents. It is also worth noting that there is no evidence that defence equipment has been sold to the United Arab Emirates or that export licences have been granted by the U.D. and that these should have been used in Yemen. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the best expertise available to assess the situation in each country to which Norway exports defence material. This is enshrined in the Storting decision and the Ministry’s guidelines. The size has neither authority nor sufficient competence to govern the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in terms of export licences to individual countries. I believe that all the representatives of big business in this room understand that we cannot have individual representatives who find conflicts in different parts of the world unacceptable, either on the basis of sympathy one way or the other, or because one believes that it is a violation of human rights, or because one believes that it is a violation of international law. We need to have stable framework conditions established by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which means that the expertise we have is based on the policy of the government at all times and that is stable. In the previous case, a lot of people talked about stable foreign policy. This is an example of how important it is to have a stable foreign policy. We have a good relationship with the United States, which is the big producer of defense equipment, with the big systems from Lockheed Martin, Raytheon, Northrop Grumman and what they must now be called. This is important for NATO, Norway and the alliance, and we must be aware of that. We can't run a solo race in this. Or we could say we're shutting down the defense industry. That's a consequence, we can do that too. But it will harm the nation of Norway, not only in terms of income, but also in terms of cooperation within NATO. This is a two-sided game that we have to take care of. With regard to the Green Party's proposals, which call for a thorough examination of export controls and for an assessment of the possibility of introducing ban provisions, this is to ask for a continuous and annual presentation to the Stortinget. That is exactly why we are dealing with this matter. This is where we're dealing with it. We don't need a new investigation of what's already in the document. That's what we're doing right now. That's what we're doing, and that's what the document contains. I understand that the Green Party is not in our committee, but nevertheless – we must not, of course, make a proposal that is already under discussion. It's just to come here and discuss every year how you think this should change. But to propose that it be investigated when it is investigated, investigated, investigated – this proposal must be rejected immediately. We can't be more Catholic than the Pope. There are real dilemmas, but there are these balances that we have to make. I've been trying to light up these deviations from the pulpit now and show how difficult it is. We have to have a good relationship with the United States. There are people who dislike the United States – more or less – but don't like Donald Trump, doesn't mean we can't cooperate with the United States, as some suggested earlier. We have a community of values with the United States in a broader perspective. We have an alliance with the United States, we're dependent on the United States. We're much more dependent on the United States than the United States depends on us. I guess the United States is very little dependent on us. Finally, let me point out that the Norwegian defence industry is a success story. It develops technology, employs thousands of wise heads, contributes to allied cooperation, opens doors, creates multi-use technology, and provides Norway with security of supply. It's actually quite legitimate for a country to defend itself. It almost seems as if the defence industry itself is a evil that people want to fight. There are dilemmas here. Of course, weapons are not good – I think we all understand that – but they are necessary in a world that is bad and difficult. That is the starting point for the defence industry, and then we have to take advantage of it and the benefits it brings, the revenue it generates, the jobs and the multi-use technology it generates, and the benefits it brings in all the areas on which other representatives depend, for example. in environmental and fisheries technologies. The defence industry is important everywhere, and everywhere we get help from the FFI, which is a state institution. The defence industry is important for revenue. It should defend the entire hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e867	On the part of the Workers' Party, we are concerned that Norway should have a living defence industry here, for the sake of preparedness for our own defence, for important jobs, for export revenue, and not least in order to exploit the technological development of the defence industry in other sectors – because it is very transferable. At the same time, Norway shall have a strict regulatory framework for the export of defence equipment. The decision of the Grand Duchy is to be based on both 1959 and 1997. Weapons and ammunition shall not be sold to countries where there is war, civil war or where war threatens, or to countries where serious violations of human rights have been detected. As a former member of the Control Committee, I have to say that it is strange to see these decisions and, nevertheless, to remember the hearings, remember the deliberations on the fact that there was suddenly an end to defence material in Nigeria, where there is civil war. This means that there is no lack of legislation, but there is a lack of enforcement of it, of following the rules, of following the decisions of size and, not least, of ensuring that those decisions are followed up. Because we can decide in the heels in here, but it definitely means "cross-fertile" if those who receive those decisions don't follow them. That's what's important. It is up to the head of defence, it is up to the defence, and it is up to the defence ministers. A key question for this debate is the brutal war that is taking place in Yemen, with very serious humanitarian consequences for the civilian population. A Saudi-led coalition of Gulf States with the United Arab Emirates as the second largest military contributor has been heavily military within the Yemen conflict since March 2015. Both in January 2016 and February 2017, reports from the panel of experts set up by the UN Security Council raised strong concerns about the humanitarian consequences of the Yemen conflict and concerns about violations of humanitarian law – and there is no need to be a member of an expert panel to be concerned about it. Nevertheless, in 2016 weapons and ammunition, i.e. A-material, were exported to the Emirates at a value of 100 million. kr. That should never have happened. Of course, we have noticed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs published a suspension of export licences to the Emirates on 3 January 2018. But that decision came too late. The damage had already happened to the arms export in 2016. Yes, the opening of arms exports to the Emirates took place in 2010 under the previous government, but the main argument here is the war in Yemen – it started in March 2015. The government's handling of this matter has been weak from a humanitarian point of view. It has also been harmful to the defence industry. Industry has an understandable desire to operate under predictable and long-term conditions. The government's practice in this matter has not been predictable, it has not been consistent. The evolution of Yemen after 2015, the content of the United Nations report for January and February 2017, in addition to the recent United Nations report presented now in January 2018, combined with a precautionary principle, should provide for a very strong practice for issuing export licences to all countries participating in military activities in Yemen. There are a number of individual proposals in both settings we are dealing with now. On the part of the Labour Party, we are at this stage reluctant to vote in favour of most of these proposals. Many of them are about exports to the countries involved in warfare in Yemen. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I have said clearly from what we think about exports to these countries – we are against it, as long as the brutal war in Yemen continues. Then, by the next crossroads, we will decide whether further action is necessary on the part of the Storting, in the form of decisions, but the most important thing with decisions is that they are followed. Then I just want to – if I can – make a comment on how to resolve the proposal of the Greens/Greens/EFA. The reason why we're going to go against it is because it's weaker than it already is. It is probably not the intention of the proposers, but in their present form the proposal risks weakening the Norwegian arms export legislation rather than strengthening it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e886	I noticed that the case rapporteur, the representative of Tybring-Gjedde, raised a point – which is always to start the debate on the export code with regard to the export of arms and military material – and that it is legal to have a weapon production, and it is legal to provide countries that maintain their own sovereignty enforcement within international law or in alliances that cooperate in this. If you don't have that starting point, you can easily draw the conclusion that the weapon is an abomination, and then we tend to go straight to the prohibition. Unfortunately, in a realistic world, even if we are to support law and law and international order, weapons are necessary. So I would say that this post could also be complemented by a recognition of the well-founded concern that one should have regarding weapon production and arms exports. That's two planes. The first is that the weapon is finally targeted at individuals within the country or against residents in another country as part of an unacceptable attack war. The second plane is a state concern. It is simply a nightmare if a weapon or weapon system produced in Norway can eventually become a threat and is directed at Norwegian interests, the alliance or our own country. It is legitimate to have concerns about weapon production and arms exports because it is not any commodity. It must be framed by a regulation, the Norwegian law, which is closely linked to international conventions. For our part, the most important international standards we have signed on Arms Trade Treaty on 2 April 2013, a relatively new UN Convention, and in addition the Code of Conduct developed in EU cooperation, which is somewhat older, but was renewed as late as 2013. If we look at the sum of these codes, we can conclude that Norway has very strict and comprehensive export control legislation. Thus, it might be said that our task is to keep up to date on international legal developments and political developments, security and otherwise, in the panorama we are talking about, and on how Norwegian deliveries might affect conflicts or have that potential in them. Initiatives aimed at tightening up the legislation will continue to find out that the legislation is in place. I think maybe you can use more of its vigilance and interest in the field to see if enforcement is effective enough, and whether we have transparent systems. I also want to say it's quite interesting reading when you're in Meld. St. 5 for 2017-2018, which is included, talks about transparency. We have added to the practice of working here in our Parliament that we have a full review once a year, where we are asked the questions and see the tables, and we as representatives can stay closely informed on how the legislation is handled at the overall level. I would particularly like to point out column 1 on page 20, which can tell us that we are working very actively through the EU system and have done so since 2003. We have cooperated with the EU's Foreign Service on export controls for defence equipment, regular bilateral consultations are held aimed at policy, regulation, problematic destinations and concrete conditions. We are also involved in the EU's exchange of refusals to export defence equipment and are obliged to consult the EU Member State concerned if an application has been rejected in the past. That means that we're keeping each other orientated, and thus also inculcating the good standards we're going to work on. The substance of these rules is not so often referred to, but they simply mean that as part of our legal system, these criteria are also binding on Norwegian administration when assessing the export licence. There is respect for the international obligations of the Member States, such as: sanctions adopted, embargoes, international treaties and export control regimes. This means that exports are refused if they are contrary to such obligations. There is further respect for human rights in the recipient countries, considering whether the equipment could be used for internal repression and for the internal situation in the recipient country, which in total is the existence of tensions or armed conflicts. Similarly, consideration should be given to the impact on the maintenance of regional peace, security and stability. It's about national security as well as friendly and allied country security. The risk that the exported equipment may be used against Member States or towards kindness shall be included in this very accurate assessment. The behaviour of the buyer country towards the international community, in particular with regard to its attitude towards terrorism, the nature of its alliances and respect for international law, must also be included. The risk that the equipment will be re-distributed or re-exported from the purchaser’s country shall be part of this. There is a track record, so you follow the practice of countries with which you have experience. Finally, in this context, I would like to mention the compatibility of arms exports with the technical and financial resources of the recipient country. So we also need to see whether this is a proper way of using resources in a depressed developing country. So that's a very broad assessment criterion. There are many criteria that are taken into account. That is why I think it belongs to the exceptions and individual cases when we get such debates aimed at countries that we have today. With regard to Yemen, on which the proposal for a representative is based, I will end by saying that it is not open to the export of weapons or ammunition, that is. A-material, to Saudi Arabia. There is a special vigilance and a leading commodity practice in exporting defence equipment to countries with military involvement in Yemen. As a result, exports of ammunition to the United Arab Emirates were temporarily detained early in 2016. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs decided in December 2017, once again as a leading var measure, to formally suspend the export of A-material to countries participating in the Saudi coalition. At that time, there was one valid licence to the United Arab Emirates, which was also suspended. In addition, it is decided to tighten up the practice of applications for export of B-materials and multi-use products for military use, with a particular increased awareness of the risk that such equipment might be used in Yemen. Finally, as an update: since 19 December last year, it has not been possible to export weapons and ammunition to the United Arab Emirates. The practice of exporting other military and multifunctional goods to the countries participating in the Saudi coalition has also been severely tightened. The internal guidelines used for the treatment process began to be adhered to as early as the late 1990s, but these internal guidelines have now been revised several times in the light of developments and technological potential. Those currently in force are consolidated and reinforced as of 5 November 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e916	Norway has one of the most stringent national arms export codes. Norway does not allow the sale of weapons and ammunition to an area where there is war or war threatens, or to a country where there is civil war. This is a result of important policy choices. We have a political and moral responsibility to actively work towards the arrival of weapons in the wrong hands and, in the worst sense, to target our own or allied forces. A strict regulatory framework with open and wide-ranging debate through annual news reports provides both people and elected representatives with transparency and guarantees the legitimacy of the defence industry in Norway. Norway has an important tradition of contributing to international control and disarmament efforts. One example of this is when Norway put down a great deal of work to get an international ban on landmines and class weapons. The most effective way we can ensure defence trade in defence equipment is to participate in common international rules on the hall of arms and other defence equipment. It is therefore important that the government continues to work in relevant international forums in order to achieve a common standard for user documentation and also to ensure that it becomes a norm in NATO. A basic task for us as elected representatives is to ensure the security of the inhabitants of the country. Then we need both a national defence and a national defence industry. It is important, as has been said, that the defence industry has clear and long-term framework conditions, but also clear legislation ensuring defence exports. In the same way that Norway must import weapons, our own defence industry must also be able to export its product. There is a broad political agreement on this, and there must be a basis for the debate on the export of Norwegian defence equipment. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must take responsibility for ensuring that the legislation we have, which is strict, is followed. I'm so glad that the representative Tetzschner had a more reflective approach to the dilemmas that lie here, than the figure Tybring-Gjede from one of the other government parties. I expect that the Foreign Minister is busy following up wisely on the balances that need to be made here. It is important for the legitimacy of the Norwegian defence industry over time that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not misjudge the important choices to be made here. The centre party does not agree with many of the detailed proposals put forward by SV, but we agree with the proposal of the representative to ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with a case that reviews the Norwegian exports to the countries of the coalition since the intervention in Yemen started, and that one also does well for how Norway has ensured that Norwegian defence equipment has not contributed to the violation of international law. That's a good basis to ask for it. We are also co-sponsors of a proposal asking the government to decide whether it is possible to develop control mechanisms to enforce such an end-user statement. I would like more parties to support such an arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e931	In the election campaign I went past many large posters where it said: No to burka and niqab. There were posters from the Progress Party, which were alive to give Islamist fundamentalists influence in Norway. Today, there is another message. Today it is yes to the burka and niqab of the Progress Party, or at least not to sell war equipment to the regimes that force women to wear such garments, and oppress their populations according to all the rules of art. Such sales as we are discussing here today involve the legitimation of the regimes to which Norway sells. But the resistance to reactionary religious dictatorship is apparently not so important any more, when it is set up against directors and shareholders in the possibility of a little extra profit for the arms companies. I am disappointed with all the parties that are voting against our proposals today, but the Progress Party is putting itself in a special position with a blazing double morale. It turns out in a poll published today, that there is strong popular support for the SV's proposal to stop any possibility of selling war equipment to the coalition that leads a very brutal war in Yemen. People agree with us that Norwegian weapons and Norwegian war equipment have nothing to do in these regimes. Let's remind ourselves what kind of war it is we're talking about. The humanitarian crisis in Yemen is worse than that in Syria. This is the worst humanitarian crisis in 50 years, according to the UN. 20 million people, almost 70 pst. by the population, need humanitarian assistance. 4.5 million children and pregnant women are undernourished. Every ten minutes, a child dies in Yemen. However, the West has largely turned its back on this conflict — yes, even continuing to support the regimes that are driving it. What signal will Norway send? That's the most important question we're asking ourselves today. We risk, as long as we do not put our foot down clearly, that Norwegian war equipment will be put into use in this conflict. We have not received satisfactory guarantees that this has not happened. And it's not like this is the stop in the export of ammunition to the United Arab Emirates that the government price-priced now in January is proof that the existing legislation works well. On the contrary, it is evidence that the necessary stop was subject to massive political pressure. The answer to that must be policy change, and it must be that the Grand Duchy takes responsibility. I see today that the head of the AUF, Mani Hussaini, says that the Storting is on the wrong side of the story in this case. I think that's well said. But there are just four parties here that are going to be on the right side of history, and that's SV, the Environmental Party of the Greens, the Reds and the Christian People's Party. It's quite thoughtful. There is a need for both an immediate decision to ensure that Norwegian war equipment cannot be exported to the countries participating in the Yemen Coalition and, at the same time, to make permanent changes in order to improve the Norwegian export legislation. It is about the proper implementation of the International ATT Agreement, it is about the end-user declaration, and then it is about strengthening the legislation against exports to authoritarian regimes, what we have in the vote called a 'democratic criterion'. The majority have signaled that they will vote against all of our proposals. I think a lot of people outside this room have trouble understanding that the Norwegian big thing will not act, that the Norwegian big thing will not do more to show solidarity with the victims of one of the most brutal wars of our time. With that, I would like to address the suggestions that SV has made in the setting, both alone and together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e952	The representative Audun Lighthouse has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e957	The left wants strict and predictable export legislation. In the Jeløya platform, the government has committed itself to ‘ having a strict, clear and stable framework for export control of weapons and ammunition providing predictability to the Norwegian industry’. Furthermore, the government undertakes to ‘work actively on international arenas in order to reach agreement on common formats and norms in the field of end-user documentation and re-port insurance’. This gives us good opportunities to build on an already strict Norwegian export code. At the committee reading, we from the Left were involved in a number of proposals, the proposals No. 1 to 5, including, but not limited to: will make it more difficult to export to authoritarian regimes, strengthening the control of enforcement of the retail declaration and proposing to lay down the provisions of Articles 6 and 7 of the ATT Agreement. We will vote today according to the setting, which was issued before the Left joined the government. We will therefore be voting in favour of the proposal for a decision, whereby a ‘will the government present the export control notification no later than during the second quarter of the year after the export year has been completed, if this is practicable’. We trust that the government will follow this up, and that the ambition will be to present the export message sooner than before. As far as Yemen is concerned, both the Left and the Government and the opposition are concerned about developments there. I'll come back to this. The left wants the Stortinget to be regularly briefed on Norwegian arms exports to the countries intervening in Yemen. We have chosen not to support proposals that override the export legislation adopted by Stortinget itself, and the expertise that manages Norwegian arms export control in a good way every day. We in the Left want strict and predictable legislation – not big business, which will help undermine the rules we are so concerned with, while at the same time giving Norwegian industry less predictability. The left, as part of the minority, will vote in favour of three proposals – I heard the representative Lysbakken talking about the others who do not therefore belong to the good community because they will not vote for all the proposals that SV is promoting – which include: The left and SV stand together. One is just about asking the government to come back to Stortinget with a case that reviews Norwegian exports that have taken place to the countries of the coalition since the intervention in Yemen started, and to explain how Norway has ensured that Norwegian defence equipment has not contributed to violations of humanitarian law. [[including re-port]] The last proposal is that we ‘ask the government to support the creation and work of the group of international and regional experts mandated to investigate all violations of international humanitarian law in Yemen, both politically and economically’. That's what I said I should come back to, because now I note that not only the Left, but also the Government and the entire opposition are concerned about developments there. I expect Knut Arild Hareide, who comes to the pulpit after me, will also express concern for the development of Yemen. Then really all the parties are concerned about the development of Yemen, and that's good. I think it might be a good idea to support the investigation of all violations of international humanitarian law in Yemen, both politically and economically. It should really be the easiest thing in the world to support under. For the moment, only the SV and the Left support this. The others are just worried, but will not investigate this. But it may happen that, having been worried enough for a long time during this debate, they may actually be involved in investigating this. I hope that more parties can contribute. I hope that the government parties can come to that, but I also hope that the other opposition parties, which are concerned about the development of Yemen, can come to the conclusion that they can support them in investigating all violations of international humanitarian law, both politically and economically. If they support this, it will become the majority of it, and it will be the majority of it, so the government will have to support the establishment of the work to investigate violations of humanitarian law, both politically and economically. And I think it'll be good -- at least better than just being worried.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e980	The Christian People's Party has long worked for stricter guidelines for arms exports and increased openness. There have been improvements, but as the Christian People's Party sees it, it is still a significant improvement potential. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government stopped the export of ammunition to the United Arab Emirates in January this year. I think it happened too late. The Norwegian Coalition Arms Hall, leased by Saudi Arabia, shows the need for strengthening and improving the legislation. With over 20 million people in need of humanitarian aid, Yemen is in the greatest humanitarian crisis in the world. War acts are made possible because countries sell military material to the warring parties, despite the fact that serious violations of international law are reported by all sides of the conflict — attacks on hospitals, the prevention of humanitarian aid and the killing of civilians. It is not a good thing that Norway sells military material to countries in a coalition that has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law and is guilty of gross crimes against children in conflict. The Christian People's Party of Norway should have a robust code that ensures that no strategic goods are exported to authoritarian regimes that commit serious human rights violations. This is also about what a country Norway should be, what we can recognize, and what we stand for. The Christian People's Party is also concerned that the defence industry should have the most far-sighted and long-term framework conditions for its operations. But these frameworks should be more restrictive than they are today. Norwegian defence equipment shall not be used in violation of the rules of war. Norwegian exports shall not strengthen the authoritarian regime’s capacity and ability to suppress its own population. For this reason, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal put forward by the Green Party that Norway should carry out a thorough disposal of both export controls and regulations in order to assess the possibility of adopting decisions on prohibitions that prevent the export of Norwegian material, both A and B, to countries where there is a risk that this will be used to make war crimes or other violations of Norway's international obligations. This arrangement shall assess how Norway can best discharge its obligations under international law while seeking to preserve a competitive framework for the Norwegian defence industry. The Christian People's Party also makes a proposal together with the SV and the Left that the government should return to the Stortinget with a case of including Articles 6 and 7 of the ATT Agreement in the Norwegian law or regulation – not only in the guidelines from the Ministry, as the scheme is today. The export value of Norwegian defence equipment was close to 4.3 billion in 2013. kr. Much of this went to NATO and to Sweden and Finland. In 2016, 34 applications for export licences for defence equipment and services were rejected. Technological leadership is becoming increasingly important in many areas, including defence. Should the defence industry succeed, need a high level of competence and commitment to leading technology. The technological competence created by the defence industry is also important for other high-tech industries. But military technology is not a product at all. Therefore, Norway must have stricter export control legislation. We must promote common international rules and high international control standards for just exporting defence equipment. In the relevant international forums, Norway needs to work to achieve a common standard for userdocumentation and work to ensure that this is a norm also in NATO. The Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party and SV, makes a proposal to address the possibility of control mechanisms to make enforcement of end-user declarations possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1002	What does the Green Party think about other than the environment? Let me first sum up our primary position. The debate on Norwegian arms exports is going on in demanding dilemmas. In the Greens, we carry on a long-term vision of a world in which cooperation on comprehensive and mutual global disarmament is not only thought of as a possible idea, but actually realized, a vision in which we recognize that we are a global community that does not need to use huge sums to produce weapons to defend socially constructed lines on a map. In such a future, the arms industry becomes unprofitable and can be converted into other industries. Such a development can only grow gradually by building mutual trust and community across borders, perhaps as we have seen in Europe after World War II. But we are not there today – far from it, especially in the light of recent developments. That is why the Greens recognise that we need a strong military defence, and we accept that we have a high-level arms industry. But the premise is that we are pursuing a very restrictive policy for these exports. We're not going to accept that Norwegian weapons end up in authoritarian regimes. We should not accept that Norwegian weapons end up in countries that commit serious human rights violations. We should not tacitly accept that Norwegian weapons are used by authorities against their own citizens. We should not accept that Norwegian weapons end up in countries where war threatens or goes on. There is too little time here to comment on the full range of questions that are being discussed today in connection with the arms export message. I would therefore like to spend the rest of my speaking time explaining the solution proposed by the Greens and the SV together. We are proposing today that the Storting should ask the Government to carry out a thorough investigation of both the Export Control Act and the regulation in order to assess the possibility of introducing prohibition provisions to prevent the export of Norwegian materials, both A and B, to countries where there is a risk that this will be used to commit war crimes or other violations of Norway's international obligations. We believe that Norway's handling of export practices in relation to the Yemen conflict is a very good example of the need for a thorough review, as pointed out by many other speakers here today. Although we have long had legislation to assess the risk of Norwegian weapons being used in war, it does not seem that it works well enough today. Unfortunately, the management of the Yemen conflict confirms this. The Greens' view is that the government reacted too late to suspend the export licences to the Emirates. In 2016, weapons and ammunition were exported to the United Arab Emirates at a value of 100 million. kr. The Emirates are today the second largest military contributor to the Gulf coalition that has been involved in the very brutal conflict in Yemen since March 2015. Back to Norway: We have noticed that a majority in the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, in addition to the SV, agreed with the Greens' Environment Party that the suspension of Norwegian export licences to the Emirates was too late. We therefore believe that the Stortinget should also show the power of action and ask for a review of the legislation here today. I am convinced that the arms industry in Norway also wants a clear and predictable framework, and I am also convinced that neither the arms industry nor the government want Norway to sell weapons that end up in and are used in extremely brutal conflicts, of the kind we now see in Yemen. The intention of our proposal is to contribute to greater predictability and certainty that we have a regulatory framework that prevents further mistakes from being made in the future. It is a very moderate and pragmatic proposal to which it should be easy to join, also for those parties who want to take greater account of the interests of the arms industry than the Greens want primarily in the long term. I have already got the impression that the Christian People's Party will support the proposal and heard it just from Hareide. I would also like to encourage the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left and the other government parties to follow the calls of Red Cross, Jan Egeland and several organisations to support the resolution of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1017	In these days, Saudi Arabia and some of the world's worst regimes are in the process of bombing one of the poorest countries in the world. According to the UN, the brutal war against the people of Yemen is about to trigger something that could be the worst humanitarian disaster in 50 years. Cities, schools, hospitals, homes and markets are bombed to pieces, while the siege blocks the introduction of vital food and medicine. This is the backstop when we are discussing the arms export notification here at Stortinget and how we are going to handle Norwegian arms exports. Red is not an opponent of a Norwegian defence industry, but exports of the material need to be changed. Only in 2016 Norway sold weapons, ammunition and other military equipment for more than 100 million. kr to the Islamic regime of the United Arab Emirates, a country accused of war crimes in Yemen. In Norway, we have a government that has used human rights as a pretext to drag Norway into U.S.-led regime change wars in the Middle East and North Africa, but at the same time helps some of the world's worst regimes while bombing the population of Yemen and causing humanitarian disaster. So it's true that the government stopped the arms export to the Emirates this winter, but it was only when they were brought down their pants after the Foreign Minister had misled the Stortinge with assurance that there was no reason to worry about the arms export to the Emirates. It may seem that it is the foreign minister's trademark not to know when it is politically convenient not to know. When it was found that the United States has budgeted with military airbase on Rygge, the same minister said the government didn't know anything about this, despite the fact that the United States must have spent months investigating, planning and budgeting for the base. The same government has also claimed for months that it does not know how Norwegian weapons and military equipment are used in the cruel war against Yemen – until a Norwegian-produced military drone appeared on the coast of Yemen, which was shown for a whole world and made a shame of Norway’s reputation. Redly, the proposals for halting all exports of military material to the countries that are waging war against the people of Yemen also support the proposal that arms exports to NATO must also be subject to the end-user declaration. Because it's not just Yemen's population suffering from uncontrolled spread of deadly weapons; look at the Kurdish civilian population in Northern Syria, affected by NATO, or was it Turkey's attack. A thorough investigation by Conflict Armament Research recently revealed that large quantities of weapons purchased by the United States from NATO allies and other countries have ended up at ISIS in Syria. As part of the US regime change experiment in Syria, huge quantities of weapons have been transported to Syrian rebels, many of them with ties to Al Qaeda. The United States and NATO have used Islamic terrorist groups such as Al Qaeda and related groups as tactical allies in their regime change experiments in both Syria and Libya, right outside Europe's living room door. There is more than enough reason in itself to require the end-user declaration of NATO countries that will buy weapons from Norway. If the Progress Party, the Left and the Right now vote against the end-user statement – which can ensure that Norwegian weapons do not come into the hands of terrorist groups that attack civilians with suicide attacks in European cities – the Council of State cannot say that the government is doing everything it can to secure Norway against terrorism. I would therefore like to round off and ask the Council of State: is she really sure that the government does not want an end-user statement when we export weapons to NATO countries that we already know repeatedly that weapons have been passed on to terrorist groups that have turned on civilians in Europe? Norway’s population deserves a clear answer — not out of the question, but a clear answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1038	I'm going to start my post with something a little bit different than I had planned. For the second time today, the representative of Moxnes makes serious accusations that I have misled the Stortinget. This is the most serious claim you can make to a Council of States, and I therefore ask that the representative Moxnes in the change of lines document what he says, in a way that can substantiate his claim that the Storting is misled. There is a broad political consensus that Norway should have a viable, high-tech defence industry with predictability in its industry. At the same time, there is also a broad consensus that we should have a strict and comprehensive export control regulation, which through Norwegian policy and broad agreement in the Grand Duchy has been gradually developed with a sort of starting point in the 1959 Stortinget Decision and an update in 1997, which also sets out a broad set of procedures for the handling of licences. These are fully explained in the message – I’m not going to go further into them here. Unrealities around the world confront us with many dilemmas in this export control assessment. At the same time, I believe there is a need for an important and decisive clarification in this debate. Norway has not – I repeat ‘not’ – opened the way for the sale of A-materials, i.e. weapons and ammunition, to Saudi Arabia, nor for military or multi-use goods for military use to Yemen. It's not open for exports of A-material to Jordan, but it can export B-material. Kuwait has been approved as receiver of A-material. However, this does not mean that materials exported to Kuwait or other coalition partners are thus used in Yemen. That was my point in the last debate we had, too, that there has been a claim from a group of consultants that there is going to be a smaller quantity of Norwegian-produced ammunition in Yemen. There are no claims that have been verified, nor are there any other sources. However, we investigate carefully and now carry out a check to see if this can lead to correctness. I would also like to repeat what I said in the previous debate on this, because I believe it is important that we are aware of both what the legislation is, what and to whom it is granted the export licence, and also the possibilities we have to investigate if there are claims. The UN has published two reports. Norway is not mentioned in any of those reports, and that is what we take as a starting point. The Ministry makes thorough and individual assessments in all cases, and it does so on a regular basis. I think perhaps that the representative Lysbakken overestimates the impact of his own and his co-representatives on the government's decision, because it was therefore an entirely normal assessment that was made on the basis of a set of strict criteria, and that shows that the legislation is working. At the same time, it is important to take these assessments, precisely because there are many complex dilemmas, and things can change from the license to the export becomes applicable. That means that we're leading a leading-var-line in all of these things. The suspension or suspension of a given licence is a serious intervention, but it is also provided for in the legislation, and it is a vital safety valve if there is to be a change in the situation. For Norway, this suspension of A licences to the United Arab Emirates also has another side. It also provides for an additional alertness and a high threshold for the granting of licences for B-materials or multi-use goods. It is also important to be aware that regardless of ownership, all companies exporting strategic goods and services from Norway will be subject to Norwegian export control, just as Norwegian-owned enterprises abroad are subject to the export control legislation of the country in which they are established. Finally, I would like to make a comment on the proposal for an international committee of inquiry. It has already been reduced, and Norway was the co-sponsor of the UN Human Rights Council to put it down. It was appointed on 4 December and Norway will continue to actively support its work. It's an important job. Then the government in the next export control message, which comes during this year, will also investigate some of the new aspects of that we now have different constellations, and not least other ways of making defence material, and what dilemmas it confronts us with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1061	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1066	In the letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee dated 15 November 2017, the Minister of Foreign Affairs – and that is very fine, what she writes – writes that if ‘a country’s strengths are not in line with the international law of war, for example. through systematic violations of humanitarian law, the sale of weapons and ammunition to the country will be excluded’. In the same letter, she wrote that the government is concerned and “responsive to the reports of violations of international humanitarian law and human rights of all parties”. This concerns the situation in Yemen. My question is: The government says on the one hand that they will stop the sale of weapons if they get reports of this, at the same time they write in the same letter that they have received reports about it. What is the government waiting for, and why have they not stopped the arms sale when they have received reports that this is a violation of Norwegian arms law?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1071	Here it's important to keep things apart. As I was in my post, it's not open to A licenses, that is. Weapons and ammunition, to Saudi Arabia. It is open to weapons and ammunition to Kuwait, but there are no indications that the weapons that Kuwait has acquired through these licences are used in Yemen. It is also not open for arms exports to Yemen. Now we have also suspended the valid A licences for the United Arab Emirates. It is important that we ensure cleanliness when discussing export controls. We are deeply concerned about the situation in Yemen. There is a reason why we spend several hundred million dollars on humanitarian action in Yemen, and that is a reason why we follow the rules we have in a strict and comprehensive export control code – as I explained in the letter, and which is also clearly stated in the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1078	In the letter from the Foreign Minister to the Foreign Affairs Committee, which states that if there is evidence, weapons will be stopped immediately, it is not linked to Norwegian weapons. It is linked to evidence that humanitarian law is being violated. It has nothing to do with whether or not Norwegian weapons are present in these countries. I repeat my question: the evidence that humanitarian law has been violated in Yemen by the coalition partners to which Norway exports has actually been given. What documentation are you waiting for to stop the sale?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1083	The Norwegian authorities can only respond to the export controls when we grant a licence to Norwegian companies applying for export to other countries. There we are very clear, and the legislation is very clear: if we, for example, sees a risk that Norwegian material may be used in a situation where international humanitarian law is violated, no export licence is granted. It is also one of the reasons why we have now done this pre-war assessment once again in the case of the Emirates – not because we have indications that Norwegian material should be used in Yemen, where the situation is, but because we do not want to take an unacceptable risk of that happening. There are assessments that we from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do at regular intervals, and that is precisely because the situation can change. So there is no contradiction between what the letter says and what is our line, which is the code we follow. As I was inside, it has its origins both in the 1959 Stortinget Decision and in the 1997 clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1088	The Minister of Foreign Affairs interprets this letter somewhat differently from what I do. The letter does not refer to the requirement to stop arms sales to countries if there is evidence that humanitarian law has been violated. It is not referred to whether Norwegian weapons are involved or not. Reference is made to a general situation where humanitarian law is violated in these countries, regardless of whether there are Norwegian weapons there or not. It is written in this letter that you have observed and seen with concern. I think we're going to take the whole discussion about whether there's Norwegian weapons involved in Yemen, completely gone. I repeat my question: what is the government waiting for evidence that humanitarian law has been violated, in order to stop the Norwegian arms sale?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1093	Now I must honestly admit that I do not fully understand where the representative Eide wants. First, Norwegian arms exports were to be taken out of the equation, and then the question is what we are waiting for to stop Norwegian arms exports. The point is: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Norwegian Government can only deal with Norwegian companies applying for a licence for the export of materials to different countries. We make assessments of what that country is like, what the situation is in that country, and whether there is a risk of secondary use in other countries. That is precisely the whole point of the legislation: we cannot go into and assess whether there are general situations in a country to which others are exporting, which is a violation of humanitarian law. We have to deal with the Norwegian legislation, based on which license the Norwegian defence industry is applying for. That's what we're doing, and that's where we're taking our precautionary assessment, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1098	On 8 December, Foreign Minister Stortinget assured him that there was no reason to worry about Norway’s arms exports to the Emirates. Eleven days later, the government decided to stop this export. In 2016, the U.D. stopped arms exports to the Emirates. The reason was afraid of a violation of humanitarian law in Yemen. Then the government reopened for arms exports, even if the war got worse in 2017. We've seen regular bombing of schools, hospitals and neighborhoods, and the Emirates training and arming militia groups and regular forces south of Yemen. What, then, are we going to say about the Foreign Minister's statement on 8 December 2017? Well, either it was the diversion of the Storting or a startling lack of knowledge about the role of the Emirates in the war in Yemen. What's worse, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1106	Once again, it's very strange here. On 8 December there was a debate in Stortinget where I did not in any way express that there was no cause for concern. If you go back in the minutes, you don't want to see those words used. On the contrary, I said that there was a great cause for concern about the situation. I also said that we would, of course, investigate – although we do not have any indications of Norwegian material use in Yemen at present – about this vote. So far it has not allowed itself to verify, as I was inside my post. What changed was that former President Saleh was killed on December 4. This led to an escalation of the situation, which also made the risk picture different. We have taken that into account in our assessment. Once again, I have to make it clear that the Norwegian authorities can decide, is the risk that the weapons for which the Norwegian export licence has been applied for are used or used in conflict situations. It is an assessment theme for us, and we are of course assessing the overall situation in an area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1115	The question and the issue is, is not only whether Norwegian weapons have been used directly, but also whether we export weapons to countries that violate humanitarian law. That was this representative Eide – for three rounds, I think it was – just before I went to the pulpit, without getting, as I could assess at least, a particularly satisfactory or precise answer to this question. It was this Stortinget also wondered throughout last year if the export of weapons to the Emirates was also exports to a country that violates humanitarian law. It is an assessment that can be made even if you do not have concrete evidence that the weapon has been used directly in warfare. This was also part of the question related to whether there was a cause for concern about exports of weapons to the Emirates.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1120	As I have explained up to several times, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs makes its ongoing assessments of the situation. This led to the suspension of valid A licences to the Emirates on 19 December last year – because of the escalating situation in Yemen, but also because we considered that the risk of material sold to the United Arab Emirates could be diverted and used in the conflict and that there was an unacceptable risk of it. Saudi Arabia we do not sell weapons and ammunition to. Once again, I think it is important to stress that the Norwegian export control legislation, as it emerges from the Storing Communication, where there are several annexes that frame up both the law, the guidelines and the regulations, is strict and have all these assessments within it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1127	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1132	I went back to the big message, and it may be worth noting that it says that the annual messages are being processed in the UK, and that it is precisely ensuring public and parliamentary transparency in the practice of our own decisions – that is, the decision of the Storting – and assessment criteria set out in the guidelines for what is government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the handling of applications for export of defence material, related technology and services for military purposes. In parallel with the objective of demonstrating maximum transparency in the export of defence equipment from Norway, it is necessary to ensure transparency within the limits imposed by the obligation of professional secrecy in the Export Control Act. So this is not an indicative law – the law applies, and we should know that as legislators. Under the law, anyone who manufactures and applies for a licence for the export of weapons is obliged to provide the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. the Government, with the assistance required to verify compliance with the provisions of the law or regulations. This relates to all information deemed necessary for the Government, by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to its examination of applications for export licences. Such a right to obtain what is called ‘business-sensitive information’ has its counterpart in what is contained in the strict taushets provisions of the law. If specific circumstances are considered to exist in individual cases, the government will continue its practice of consulting the bodies of the Storing specifically. I find it difficult to imagine that we should have a different routine, as it is important to avoid that we, as magnification, go in and try the individual administrative matters. That's not indicative. We, Stortinget, have given authority to the Government, by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to manage this area, and they have extensive experience and competence in this field. Then it must be up to the government to come back here to maybe anchor these matters politically in addition to what is in the ordinary communications. In the VG on 3 January 2018 it was claimed that a smaller amount of Norwegian military equipment was found in Yemen. This has been followed up on several occasions and along several tracks with a view to finding out more about the matter, but so far no information has been verified. I hear that individual representatives in the hall believe – in their rhetoric – to know better. But it hasn't been verified. It is possible that this serves internal, party-political considerations, but it has not been verified. I see that the government has demonstrated considerable vigilance and makes individual assessments of exports to countries participating in the military coalition in Yemen. As early as 2016, the government decided to temporarily withhold exports of ammunition to the United Arab Emirates. This was the expression of a string leading the var-line from the Norwegian side. This line is firmly established, underlines the Minister for Foreign Affairs and has also led the Government to decide on 19 December 2017 to suspend exports of A-materials to the United Arab Emirates and to tighten up the practice of other military material, referred to as B-material, and multi-use goods for military use to the countries participating in the Saudi coalition in Yemen. Norway has very strict and comprehensive export control legislation. All applications for export of defence material are thoroughly and individually assessed on the basis of the very guidelines handled by the Government, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The risk that defence materials from Norway may be used for repression or violation of humanitarian law is an essential part of this assessment. It is not open for export of weapons or ammunition, i.e. A-material, to Saudi Arabia. It may be worth noting that in 2010, after a thorough assessment, it was opened for the export of A-material to the United Arab Emirates.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1151	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1156	SV regrets, of course, that the majority of the population will not settle this time either with the tradition of selling weapons to war countries or where there is a violation of humanitarian law. We also regret the fact that the bulk of the population will not guarantee the intention of the Norwegian Armaments Act. We're sorry about that. At the same time, I am pleased with the debate, and I believe that this process is taking us in the right direction. Among other things, we see: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has stopped the sale of ammunition to the Emirates. It happened a few days after we last had this debate here in the main hall. I'll take it, among other things. as an expression of the fact that the U.D. has registered an increasing pressure and a growing concern about what this ammunition sale could contribute to. At the same time, there was also a type of “damage control”. For what would happen if Norwegian ammunition were found in Yemen? Although SV loses voting today, this debate is now completely different from before. Several are aware of Norwegian arms production and Norwegian arms exports. More and more people see that Norwegian authorities do not care enough to ensure the intention of Norwegian arms legislation. More and more people see that it is morally reprehensible to sell weapons to land in war. More and more people see that Norway can help to stimulate the war. More and more people face the problem of commercial and industrial interests taking precedence over ensuring peace, human rights and international law. The sum of this, I think, is that six out of ten in a survey today are against Norway selling arms to Yemen. I believe that despite losing this vote, the debate is moving us in the right direction. It is a matter of time before Norway has to stop this practice. This will be pushed forward by the population of Norway and also by international processes. Then it's also important to find out that arms sales are foreign policy alliances. We sell weapons to our friends and not to our enemies. That would be very stupid. Although the Norwegian Arms Act opens for cross- and cross-axis sales of weapons to friends-enemies, this is otherwise read by the purchaser. When the alliance of warring parties in Yemen buys arms from Norway while they are at war, it is read by the buyer as an expression of support for their actions. In Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the Emirates, it is reported that Norway has no counter-representation — no counter-representation. My question is: does Norway wish to convey this message to the warring parties in Yemen?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1167	You almost don't know if you're going to laugh or cry about this debate. I think you talk past each other. Initially, to Petter Eide: I do not think we should base Norwegian arms exports on polls. It's a little too complicated for that -- although six out of ten think we should stop selling weapons, as was said, to the United Arab Emirates, UAE. In fact, everyone in this room also seems to be. No one has stood here on this pulpit and told us to sell it. But SV tries to create a conflict that doesn't exist, to be alone in mercy and solidarity. It went so far that the representative Lysbakken said he had seen that the Progress Party in the election campaign was against Nicab and Burka. I can say that I'm also against hijab, because I think it's women's repressive, but what does it have to do with the case, when we're at the same time opposed to export, which is exactly the same position as SV has. So they're trying to hide behind the fact that they were the first to say that, so they're going to be allowed to win this debate. "We were the first to say that, you came afterwards." This is a childish debate. Can't you take this seriously, instead of running a polemics that really don't exist, a discussion about disagreements that don't exist? More stringent arms control is required, but there are too good framework conditions for the defence industry. It says everyone is very important. How are we going to have more stringent arms control and export legislation than our countries of cooperation? We are working with the EU and other countries in Europe and NATO on these issues. So if you want to have it more stringent, it gets more stringent than others. Or you can go to our allies and ask if everyone can get stronger. Yeah, well, we can all get tougher. You can try to do that, but you probably won't. Or you can choose to become stronger alone, but then you don't have the chance to maintain a defence industry, because then we won't be competitive globally. You can mean what you want about it, but can't you be so honest and say that the defence industry is not good? There's a lot of people here saying, "It's bombing in Yemen, and kids get shot, etc." Yes, of course, it's like this in a war, and it's terrible, but you better look at the realities, why this happens, and whether you can solve this politically, through negotiations, or in any way, not involve an export of weapons that are not in this conflict. It's completely unnecessary. There won't be peace in Yemen by it. I also picked it up several times from the pulpit with an end-user statement. I tried it, but people aren't here, there's only two or three parties in the room. If you have an end-user statement, it is components and subsystems that are part of large systems, such as: in the United States, Germany or France, which are exported further. Then it's going to be report. Then we cannot ask for an end-user statement without the Norwegian defence industry having to shut down. It's actually quite logical, but you can still go out in radio debates today and in the newspapers tomorrow and say that we promoted yours, and we promoted that, and the Progress Party is for one and for the other. I think you need a little more knowledge about this -- because it's complicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1180	So far, it's liberating to hear the Progress Party say that something is complicated. That would have been good in other debates as well. But the facts are on the table. Now the representative of Tybring-Gjedde is going to sound like there are no exports of Norwegian war equipment to the countries of the coalition, but the report makes it very clear that those exports have more than quadrupled since 2014. The most mentioned example is the export which has taken place, with the Progress Party in government, to the United Arab Emirates. What both the representative Eide and several others have drilled in is what that export says about our legislation. In a situation where there are so many reports of violations of humanitarian law from the countries of the coalition, what do you do? Well, then Norwegian policy has shifted back and forth – first bans, then no bans, then bans again. What does it say about our code? What does it say about the follow-up to the underlying principles, and what does it say about how this leads to the precautionary principle? I understand that the matter is unpleasant for Tybring-Gjedde, because it destroys a lot of the rhetoric you use here at home related to radical Islamism, etc., but we'd rather take that discussion. I can promise that we're not going to put it away. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was concerned that the representative Petter Eide and I cannot take credit for the government's policy on export stoppages, and I agree with that. I am fully aware that there is a limited amount of government listening to me. Nevertheless, the debate about this – I think – has had something to say, also for the awareness of this matter. But my opinion was to give a tribute to the many in civil society who have been concerned about this, for example. organisations such as Save Children and Changemaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1191	I had realized that the Workers' Party and the Environmental Party of the Greens had a common intention in the field of the practice and enforcement of the Code of Conduct on Arms Exports. That is why I am somewhat surprised to hear that the Labour Party at the representative Christensen will not support our proposal today, as the Workers' Party has been informed over a long time. If the Labour Party had wanted a more ambitious proposal, they have had every opportunity to promote such a better proposal, until today, both in the Committee and possibly as a loose proposal. Now it's a little late to tighten up with new formulations in this round, so either the Workers' Party has slept an hour, or maybe this is a very easy way to appear to be forward-looking while preventing a majority decision that gives real progress. Is this the wing? Our proposal for a decision is not about weakening an export code from 1959, but about asking for an investigation to improve its handling and practice, in line with calls from Red Cross and Jan Aegean. So I hope and challenge a clarification of the Workers' Party's position, and an explanation of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1200	As far as the debate is concerned, I would like to make some clarifications that I think may be important. The representative, Eide, says that six out of ten in the survey that Changemaker has conducted are against the sale of weapons to Yemen. Then it is good that we do not sell arms to Yemen. So it's not open for the sale of weapons to Yemen. However, in many ways it highlights a little of the challenge of reproducing that type of study, because that means that six out of ten Nordics are opposed to something that does not happen – that is too good – but that they think is going on too fully. I would also like to stress that when we don't sell A-materials and open licences for A-materials to Saudi Arabia, when we suspend A-licenses to the United Arab Emirates, I think it's very clear that it's the opposite of not having counterconceptions. It's because it's counter-conceptions, and that's why the law works the way it does. We have legislation that relates to the situation in individual countries, some areas of conflict, and that is flexible enough to deal with what is happening, if a situation, for example, is present. changes from a licence to an export. It is also important to be aware that the representations of the study that have been are also not entirely accurate. The study states that exports of war material have been fivefold since 2014. What is also included in this overview is just civil equipment sold to military customers where there is a licensing obligation. These include: in the form of computer network equipment, communication equipment, etc., i.e. not weapons and ammunition. In 2016, A-material and B-material were sold for a total of approx. 110 million. NOK – not 319 million. NOK, which would then be a five-fold. So that includes other equipment that is not A-material, not weapons and ammunition. I think it is important that we have this kind of debate. That's exactly why we practice the perhaps most open form of debate that any country has, at least one of the most open, by having annual discussions on export control. I think it's a strength and a value. We are all concerned that we should have a competitive Norwegian defence industry. It must also have conditions to work according to which is based on both predictability and cleanness, and at the same time we must continue to have and practise a strict and comprehensive export control legislation. I have not seen anyone disagree with that, and I think it must also be the basis for the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1212	I was challenged by the Greens, and then I will answer that challenge. I would also like to take the opportunity, when I first stand here on the pulpit at the end of the debate, to remind you that Storting's debates are not going to be a stable in which to grapple with their radical jaws without investigating whether they have any truth. What I was challenged on was why the Workers' Party does not go into solving the proposal of the Greens' Greens' Greens' Party. The representative of the Green Party said we had been offered to adjust the content, but did not grasp it. That's not true either. On February 18th, we pointed out that the wording contained in the resolution is weaker than the one that has stood since 1959. It's not wings. It is about standing firm at the position that the Stortinget has had since 1959, which is that we should not export or sell to countries where there is war or civil war. It is more stringent than what is said in the proposal submitted by the Green Party, which only has one of them. One of the reasons why we're not taking part in this proposal is that it's actually weaker than it was before. We have informed the Greens about this. They have not taken note of this and have not amended the proposal. That means that we would rather stand on the more stringent line, which has been agreed since 1959, which is a code that, if it had been followed, would have made sure that it had not been arms exports to such an extent as we want. We share the common goal, but we want to use stronger lye, so we think it's better to stand by what has been going on since 1959, that we should not send to countries where there is war or civil war, or where this threatens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1221	I actually just drew myself into a short comment, so it's not sure I need 3 minutes. The Secretary of State took me into a conversation or a gross simplification, and she's quite right. If that's how she referred, there's all sorts of reason for self-criticism. But the question asked to the population was as follows – this is reflected in the VG: ‘Do you think Norway should sell military equipment to the warring countries of Yemen?’ So the question is asked in the VG. Six out of ten answer no, only 12 pst. answer yes, so my and the representative Lysbakken's claim that the government has the people against them in this matter is reasonably good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1233	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1249	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1258	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good work on the matter in my first case as rapporteur. I am pleased that an overall committee supports the call for «The government is asked to develop a national supervisor to facilitate the work of local authorities to establish emergency teams against bullying in school itself or in cooperation with others». Overall, we believe that bullying is a problem that needs to be prevented and controlled. The Education Act refers to the right of students to a safe and good school environment, which the schools and school owners undertake to enforce. Unfortunately, more recent statistics show that much more bullying has been detected than before. With the latest changes to the Training Act, which now involves zero tolerance for bullying and an enhanced, clear and action-oriented obligation for municipalities, the Committee hopes that this will be addressed. The Committee believes that early efforts to ensure a safe and good school environment are essential. Professional challenges for pupils must not be detrimental to students’ development of social skills, relationships and knowledge of the class environment. Professional competence of teachers shall be added to good social competence. With a secure framework for learning, professional development will grow more easily among students. Preventive work against bullying can be done in different ways and is important to establish the security of all students. The Committee points out that the KS and the Parent Committee for Initial Training have jointly prepared a report on anti-tampering preparedness teams. It shows how important a response team is when bullying has already taken place. That is why we believe that prevention must be done in addition to emergency teams. The Committee therefore points out that management is essential both at each school and in each class, municipality and county, both in the context of prevention work and also in these emergency teams, which must step forward when the bullying may have taken place. The overall committee does not want to go as far as the proposers, and there is therefore a minority proposal in addition to the Committee's recommendation. I would simply like to recommend the Committee's recommendation and address the proposal put forward by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1278	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand then brought up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1283	Too many kids are bullied. It is important that the zero vision is maintained. The work done outside the schools and in the municipalities and county councils must therefore never decrease in force, but, on the contrary, increase in intensity. All children must be seen. Everyone has to feel safe, and no one has to have a lump in their stomach as a result of a poor or not inclusive school environment. It's got to be our lead star. Now that the bourgeois parties have doubled the resources deployed in the fight against bullying, and not least have implemented many measures and rights that in total promise this work, it is important to follow this closely so that we achieve our common goals. In this way, there is much to suggest that these changes work. Since the introduction of a new legislation in the autumn of 2017, active use has been made. Indeed, the community has received 563 reports of bullying, which shows that the new bullying law has in a short time led to a drop in the threshold for contacting and getting help from the County Government in bullying cases. A total of 355 cases were completed at the end of that year, and in the matters of duty of activity the County found out that in three out of four cases the municipalities had not done enough. This suggests that the County is actively using its role and responsibilities to ensure that schools and municipalities handle bullying seriously and not least quickly. Now, with regional bullying agents, it is further contributing to this work and broadening the instruments and follow-up to difficult cases. I also want to raise our 50 million stakes. kr contributing to increased knowledge and further training in the sector, thus ensuring that we are well managed in the field of hard bullying. I'm making this happen because how to use knowledge, and how to use these resources that are now being allocated, depends on the local follow-up. Therefore, it is important to be aware that the required deployment of response teams will be filled by the same people and resources that already exist locally. Therefore, there is little doubt as to what the KS summary, which together with the FUG carried out the pilot on emergency teams, concludes in the report: ‘Emergency teams may be an instrument. Not like a place where schools can dump their unpleasant mob stuff, but where students, families and schools can get help. If municipalities/communities set up emergency teams, this must be because they want to resolve matters.» There is no doubt, therefore, that an emergency team order requires a solution. In other words, it may be possible to take into account the concern that, as a matter of fact, national injunctions can equally prevent good local and flexible solutions. It's all about the possibility and the willingness to use the local resources. By means of an activity obligation, ombudsman and a lower threshold for reporting to the State, the tools needed — and not least local — to introduce these response teams are now available. That is why I am pleased to see developments so far in the grips that have taken place in recent years. I am also pleased that the majority will not impose this mechanism on all municipalities, but will provide the necessary space for action to ensure that the children are focused, that the objectives are in focus, and that the solutions are adapted to the resources they have locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1299	For two years old Johnny was a human toy for some of his classmates. They ran him for money, and they forced him to eat grass and drink milk mixed with detergent. They tucked him up on the doe, they tied a rope around his neck and pulled him around as if he were a dog. When Johnny's tormenting spirits were asked about the bullying, they said they had done it because it was polite. As a teacher over many years, it hurts me to think that there has certainly been bullying among my students and within my classroom. I was told something as a contact teacher, mostly not. When I have a slightly different role today, it's time to ask yourself if the schools and society are doing enough to bring this problem to life. As of today, the schools are obliged to tackle bullying. The Education Act Chapter 9 A gives all students the right to a safe and good school environment. The school shall take all warnings seriously and have an obligation to investigate what has happened. The principal is responsible for introducing measures, so that bullying and bullying end, and so that the students feel safe and well. The most important thing schools can do is take alerts seriously, and it's important to talk about bullying at school. By allowing students themselves to participate in the work of creating a good school environment, they also create a good learning environment. This may have a special influence on pupils in schools. The contact teacher shall regularly discuss the rules against bullying in common classrooms. It's important that both students and teachers are aware of their responsibilities, and that this can make them more aware of what kind of behavior is good, and how you don't act towards others. But again, these are so big questions that we, as politicians, too, have to take it seriously. I'm glad that the red-green government took a number of measures to strengthen schools' work for a good and inclusive school environment, free of bullying. We strengthened the Training Act, but most importantly: there was a great deal of investment in supporting the work of teachers and schools, among others. through a large-scale national initiative, ‘Better Learning Environment’, which has developed many learning resources for use in classrooms. We also established a counsellor's corps, where the schools got help from outside the academic community. In addition, we set up a public body, the Djupedal Committee, which made a number of recommendations on how to combat bullying, harassment and violations. These recommendations have little been followed up by today's government, and the changes in the law promoted by the government last year are far from enough to get bullying in Norwegian school alive. Removing the requirement to take individual decisions was also met with strong protests from parents and organisations working against bullying in school. The government must also be willing to set aside more resources to combat bullying, not least the need to strengthen the State as a complaint body for bullying. Today we have a proposal on the table that all municipalities have to set up preparedness teams for bullying, so that schools can get help quickly in matters that deal with violations and bullying. We know that the competence in schools today is not good enough. But once again, we have a government that doesn't want enough. KS and FUG have produced a report on preparedness teams against bullying, and there is no doubt that it is important to put in place an emergency team once bullying has taken place. I think it is nice that the government will not take part in this proposal. When the Prime Minister took up bullying in his New Year's speech in 2014, she said: ‘We adults have to tackle bullying among children and young people. A damaged childhood can set deep traces. A good childhood lasts a lifetime." Today, the government parties could have had the opportunity to take part in a coup d'état against bullying. I think it is a naive attitude to the problem that they will not be involved in the minority's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1317	In my previous post in this room I referred to a conversation around the dinner table, and it really fits well today, because about now there are thousands of parents asking their children just how they have had it at school today, and what they have learned. Today’s debate may be about the first thing – how has someone had it at school? But it also affects the other enormously – what a teacher does. Fortunately, we in the Chamber agree that efforts to combat bullying are important, but today we disagree on how and what ambitions we should have to reverse the trend we see with increasing bullying. We believe that this is not done enough. It's just to look at the 2017 Education Directorate's student survey to find some of this. That's 6.6 pst. by the students that they are being bullied two to three times a month. It's as much as 29,000 students. These are kids, students, who say they're called bad things, who say they're being kept out, and a quarter say they're experiencing physical bullying. The study also shows that as much as 40 pst. states that no adult at school knew about bullying, and 16 pst. – alarmingly much – answers that the school did not know about and did nothing. This is where some of the challenges lie. Too many experience poor handling. It also confirms the Children's Ombudsman, who has said that they are being contacted by children and young people who say that parents and they themselves have tried to take up bullying with the school, but the school says it is not bullying. It also seems that some schools and municipalities define themselves away from the responsibility of following up the student's right to a good school environment. This is where we in the Workers' Party have greater ambitions and are impatient. We want to make sure every municipality has an emergency team. This means that one gathers expertise, that one gets better at using resources and makes it easier for parents, teachers and students themselves, who get a clearer point of contact when a person experiences or sees bullying. One should remember that bullying is complicated and difficult – whether it is for the teacher, school or parents. Having someone who's an expert on this, an emergency team, we think is important. It's a little bit like this. Who's going to call? Emergency teams!» We want to step up efforts, we want to simplify and bring together the work, and we want to oblige more municipalities to do more, because we see that this is not good enough what is being done today. There are experiences from the project with emergency teams that are behind the proposal, and both the KS and the Parent Committee say this has been a brilliant project. The former Council of State confirms in its letter that emergency teams have worked, and not least that different municipalities have chosen different solutions. We think that the experience from the project that has been is good enough reason to say that we must and should have more of this. This should be done by all municipalities. It's a shame that the Right Party, Advance Party and Left governments disagree with this. I hear that the Right refers to the fact that there is a complaint procedure in the County State, and you refer to the law. It is good that there is a complaint mechanism, and it is good that more people use it. However, I am a little uncertain whether I had boasted that several people use the County Agency as a complaint body, which basically indicates that there is already a problem that is not being solved well enough in the municipality or in school. Showing the law alone also seems to us to be too weak. The numbers show that bullying is increasing, and then the law is not the only answer. We also need to provide the municipalities with more tools. I also noticed that in the letter from the previous Minister of Knowledge, the previous Council of State, it was argued against the proposal because one felt that prevention was more important. I think the Council of State and the government are drawing up an unnecessary contrast between the prevention and handling of the cases that appear, and I hope that Sanner can answer whether the government believes there is a contradiction here. We also want to say that this is not detailed management of the municipalities. It's about bringing together the resources. Different municipalities can solve this in different ways, but we have to give the municipalities more tools and get more work done against bullying. Unfortunately, the proposal we have put forward is being put to the vote today, but the Labour Party will continue to be impatient. We will continue to make proposals in the fight against bullying, because it is not done enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1336	It is not often enough to say that all students have the right to a safe and good school environment, and no children will have to experience bullying inside or outside school. Bullying is a problem that can be largely prevented by good school management, but also by parents taking responsibility – as has been said – around the dinner table, social activities and social media, so that bullying culture is not taught or nurtured by the nearest environment. We know that bullying and social isolation can lead to mental disorders and poorer school outcomes in children and young people, and this can pursue them further into adult life. Early prevention, early detection in kindergartens and schools, and safe and clear management of bullying are therefore important. This is why the training effort in kindergartens and schools has been an important initiative since the autumn of 2016. The left has been a driver for a low threshold to report bullying and for a neutral outside school to deal with the complaint. It has been implemented by statesmen and women accepting complaints and taking decisions. And according to the law, the school is subject to an activity obligation, i.e. that the school should follow, alert and intervene against bullying and infringements. The school shall also investigate any suspicion of bullying and take action when a student is not in a safe and well-being position in the school. The student survey of pupils from the 5th stage to higher education, which was presented on 11 January of this year, was conducted in autumn 2017, i.e. during the same period of time as the entry into force of the Law on bullying. In the student survey, 6.6 pst told. by the students that they were bullied, and it showed that there had been a slight increase. That is, there are more than 50,000 students who get bullied regularly. These are numbers that are obviously unacceptable and that we're going to take very seriously. Kristin Oudmayer in UNICEF said in an interview shortly after the student survey that there are four factors that are known to prevent bullying: clear school management and expectation management, relations between teacher and student and a positive student vision, a good home-school collaboration and building community feelings and good community relationships in the class. These factors are expected to focus on the competence effort against bullying in kindergartens and schools. For 2018, it is allocated approximately 80 million. kr to work just against bullying. This is almost a triple in three years. These millions will, among other things: improve the skills of teachers and school management in bullying. The lack of competence in kindergartens and schools and the new anti- bullying legislation has shown a decline in the student survey for this year is expected, because the measures have had far too little time to work. It must also be taken into account that when there are many issues that come to County it shows that the law has had an effect. The fact that several cases are being dealt with today also shows that the threshold to say so has been lower. It's useful to say from now on. Furthermore, there will be a new scheme of state-owned bullying agents from the autumn of 2018. This, in combination with the pooling of competences and the new legislation, is expected to give rise to future student surveys. Emergency teams can work well in some municipalities, but municipalities must have the freedom to find other solutions if needed. That's why there's a bad idea imposed on preparedness teams against bullying. A national guidance guide for setting up emergency teams when necessary to combat school bullying, as the Committee also recommends in the call, is considered to be a better measure providing more flexibility. Finally, it is important to evaluate all the measures, mechanisms and legislation that constitute the major effort against bullying. Not least, it is important to follow up on evaluation and always press on bullying, so that children get a good school day. We're going to have zero tolerance for bullying children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1353	We've been getting numbers in the last few weeks that tell us that bullying is unfortunately still a serious and big problem in Norwegian school. 40000–60000 children and young people are exposed to bullying weekly, and half of these never report. For many, bullying is linked to guilt and shame. It's hard to talk about, and many people are afraid that if one chooses to say from, the situation will only get worse. We know that the longer bullying goes on, the greater the chance of physical and mental damage. Research can tell that bullying is the biggest single cause of children’s mental health problems. The growing-up conditions of children play a major role in the development and participation of individuals in social life. The community could have been saved for large sums if bullying had been better prevented. We know that bullies are overrepresented in crime statistics. Many of them, including the bullying victims, become the main consumers of health and social services out of life. Early efforts are essential to prevent injuries caused by bullying. However, when some schools can tell that there is almost no bullying in them, it is a result that the school has competent adults who can see the individual student. But it's also about parents who choose to get involved in their children's lives both at home and at school. These are schools that give up parents and can build cooperation based on trust, involvement and not least the willingness to assist the school in creating a safe and stimulating learning environment for the students. It is about living so close to the young that they are seen in terms of both encouragement and correction. When the figures don’t go down, it’s definitely not about schools not taking the problems seriously – on the contrary. There has never been so much attention to the problem as today on the part of schools, with systematic efforts over time, with schooling and with a clear focus where efforts, instruments and results are constantly being asked. In the spring of 2017, the Stortinge adopted a completely new code against bullying in the school. The new legislation strengthens the rights of students who are being bullied and their parents. By means of the legislative decision, the Stortinget has communicated a clear expectation that schools will intensify prevention and act quickly and effectively in individual cases. An important change was the introduction of an activity obligation for all adults in school. This presupposes that school staff have up-to-date and not least have sufficient competence in the school environment and work against bullying and other abuses. Several municipalities have established their own response teams to bullying. Experience so far with emergency teams in municipalities shows that it is a good measure that municipalities need and want to do so. But there's something quite different to recommend than imposing it on the municipalities. We believe that the municipalities themselves must choose the organisation they see best served with, based on the understanding of the problem, the skills available and the resources available. It should therefore, in the view of the Christian People's Party, be a recommendation, but not a decree. However, the good experience with such teams should certainly be shared so that more municipalities that consider it appropriate can set up emergency teams more easily. It is worrying, in the view of the Christian People's Party, that the number of students exposed to bullying is increasing. We believe that efforts to combat bullying, intrusion and harassment require a variety of measures. A change in the law was necessary and important, but not in itself sufficient. The establishment of bullying agents in all counties is another measure the Christian People's Party has been eager for and is pleased that we will be in place from the autumn of 2018. We also believe that it will contribute to more transparency around bullying as a problem, increase competence and contribute to a greater level of security in terms of how to combat bullying. The establishment of the ‘Talk about bullying’ chat service, which has occurred in the last two years under the auspices of the Blue Cross, has proved to be another measure that has given young people the opportunity to talk about bullying and get help. Increasing the number of teachers in school through a national standard for increasing teacher density is another important step in improving the social and security of pupils. But none of these measures are sufficient for us to say that the fight against bullying has been won. We have a way to go all the time. Therefore, the preparedness team is not a Christian People's Party that wants to talk down – across the board. But let there be one of several measures the municipalities themselves can choose from in order to advance in the fight against bullying.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1376	The fight against bullying has a high priority. I am glad that we stand together in the fight against bullying and for a safe environment for children and young people. I would like to thank the Committee for its strong and cross-political commitment to bullying. This case is not about who wants the most, but about what you think will work best. To answer the question directly from the representative Tvedt Solberg, there is no contradiction between prevention and action against bullying, we have to do both. In recent years, the government has put in place a number of measures to prevent bullying and improve the ability of kindergartens, schools and municipalities to solve bullying. Competence building, increased support and assistance for the bullying victims and their families and the new legislation introduced from August 2017 are the main instruments in this work. Both research and the investigation by the Djupedal Committee underline the importance of strengthening local competence in the handling of bullying. I therefore believe that the competence effort now carried out in several hundred kindergartens, schools and municipalities across the country will be a very important contribution to reducing bullying. At the same time, the government emphasises that the work of competence against bullying must be differentiated, locally and in the best possible way adapted to the challenges in each municipality. The Competence Package is therefore structured in such a way that the schools, kindergartens and municipalities that face the biggest bullying challenges get help and support first. They also get more external help than others. Schools with fewer bullying challenges can use other instruments. For example, we have developed both school-based schemes and online guidance that schools and municipalities can use. I believe that this local approach must also apply when we are dealing with preparedness teams against bullying today. In many municipalities, such teams can be a good tool in resolving demanding bullying. In emergency teams, municipalities and competent communities play together, and the whole range of resources and experience that the municipalities have. This will be absolutely necessary in many cases, because the bullying is often both complex and demanding. But both because the bullying challenges are so different locally and because the organisation is so different locally, the preparedness team is not simply an instrument for all municipalities. For this reason, the Emergency Team Scheme launched by the KS and the Parent Committee for initial training in 2012 has been an all-round voluntary action. The State contribution has been to finance collections — exchange of experience between participating municipalities. I believe that the state should continue to do so. It is also important to stress that emergency response teams are not involved in prevention. The team’s task is to help and support affected families, or with guidance for schools in the most demanding bullying cases. The work is based on functions already in place in the municipality, and the municipalities involved have used different models. I don't think it's a good solution to turn the emergency teams into a state-managed system. I believe instead it must be the municipalities themselves who decide this, as it has also been now. If the municipalities choose to set up such teams, it must be because they have defined a failure in their own system to solve serious bullying and found out that emergency teams are the best way to resolve matters. At the same time, I believe it is important to help municipalities that choose to establish emergency teams. For this reason, the government supports the majority’s proposal to develop a national guide to facilitate the setting up of emergency teams by municipalities, either themselves or in cooperation with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1396	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1401	As the Council of State said in its statement, today's decision in the Grand Duchy is that a supervisor is to be developed. It is also demonstrated by the Council of State that the experience with the emergency team project is very good. That's why we believe that one has to do more of this to roll it out into even more municipalities, do more of what works. So when the Council of State is going to start to make a guide, my question is, When does the Council of State think it is necessary for a municipality to set up a emergency team?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1406	It is true, as it is said, that there is good experience with emergency teams. We have good experience with a lot of things, but it's not always that what works well one place is mandatory for everyone. Now, we need to use the experience of those who have emergency teams to advise the municipalities that need it, and as I explained in my post, it can be in municipalities where there is obviously a failure, and where you are unable to deal with the demanding issues with the systems that they already have in place. I have faith in such a guide, precisely because the municipalities then get – call it a cookbook on how they can set up an emergency team, and how they can work when they are faced with demanding issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1411	I notice that the Council of State is afraid of more national governance in this area. I have to admit that I think it's a little strange, all the time this government is very busy with national governance in a lot of areas – it might be down to details like for example. to introduce national samples in swimming. But in terms of bullying, which the Council of State has confirmed from the pulpit is something we are all concerned about and everyone thinks we need to increase our efforts against, one will not do more on national government to get this done. I simply wonder if the Council of State can elaborate a little on why not in such an important area – which we all agree on is important, the fight against bullying – is willing to use more of the national tools to make greater and better efforts in the municipalities? That's what we all want – have more tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1416	Had I or the majority of the Stortinges believed that this was the solution, I am absolutely sure that the majority had said that we are doing this. But the majority don't think so. We have a number of tools in place for all municipalities. It's about the law that's in place, it's about the means of competence that I pointed out – and the way in which you help municipalities, schools and kindergartens that are struggling, differentiated according to the challenges you have – and that's the budget agreement we have with the Christian People's Party to establish bullying agents in the municipalities. If we had been sure that only we had put another tool on top of it all, we would have solved the problem – then we would have gone for it. But we don't think so. There's a difference between the municipalities. We have municipalities from 208 inhabitants to over 550 000 inhabitants. Then we also have to have different tools that the municipalities can use, without saying that it's going to be completely equal everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1421	We agree that there are just different tools that are important. For this reason, the Workers' Party proposes with this proposal another tool that can be used by municipalities. I have to say that I agree with what the representative of the Christian People's Party said in his post: it must be done more in the fight against bullying. That's not enough, what's done now. We have to do more, we have to put more tools in place. That's why I want to challenge the Council of States a little bit, because he mentions a lot of measures that have come, but very few of them are new ambitions from the new Council of States. He refers to things that former state councils have introduced. So can we now, in such an important matter as the fight against bullying is, expect the new Council of State to have some new ambitions, are willing to discuss and put in place new tools? Or will it just be the showdown from the pastors we want to hear in this Chamber from this Council of States?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1426	I had hoped that in this debate we had put ourselves in a slightly different tone. My ambition, and that's the greatest ambition of all, is that we should have zero tolerance against bullying. No one has the right to turn away when no one is bullied. It's your responsibility, it's my responsibility, it's the responsibility of adults. Had I thought that only we had had another political decision in Stortinget, we would have solved the bullying, I would have gone for it, but I am convinced that the fight against bullying must we win every day, in kindergarten, in school, in voluntary organizations, in our local communities. That's where the work has to be done. The vision of zero tolerance against bullying I think the whole Storting is behind, and I think that's great. Then we can't reach out to each other and say that we're united on this, instead of making it a political pingpong game?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1431	Students at school will be met by a safe everyday life and a good school environment. We're all against bullying and we're all because it's being prevented and handled properly. It's established. The preparedness team for bullying is not a requirement for a new municipal service. On the contrary, there is coordination of the resources already available to municipalities. As the Center Party sees it, this is a good move to get in place and systematize the management we all know is necessary to just counteract and deal with bullying. Competence and law, as pointed out by the Council of State, are important, but so is the organisation. Then I simply wonder: How does the Council of State view the development of this national supervisor – when the High Representative of the Education and Research Committee refers to response teams that only provide a simple way out when the bullying has arisen? And what does the Council of State notice that the supervisor will lead to?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1440	Such a supervisor is not developed in an office in Oslo; it is developed on the basis of the local experience, and now we have a good deal of experience from municipalities that have had emergency teams. I think it's just a very small nuance difference between the representative's position and my position, where the representative says it's a good tool, while I say it can be a good tool. My point is that we have to gather the experience that has been gained, and then create a «boiler» – I like to use that term – where the municipalities can go in and see how it's done elsewhere, and how they can organize themselves when they need such a team in order to deal with the specific situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1447	New legislation from 1 August last year shall ensure zero tolerance against bullying. The new legislation states that students and parents should be able to file a case directly with the State if they consider that the school has not fulfilled their obligation. It's going to make it easier to get help. So the county council is going from being a review body to becoming a first-line body, which can impose measures and, in the ultimate sense, penalise municipalities that do not fulfil their obligations. My question to the Minister will then be: Is the County, at the discretion of the Council of State, well enough equipped financially to take this promise under the new law?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1454	The answer to this question is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1460	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1467	It's a broad commitment to bullying both here and elsewhere in society. It's just in its place. More than 50,000 children and young people are regularly subjected to school bullying, according to last year’s student survey. More needs to be done to prevent this. In such a situation, it should not be allowed to be content with your own efforts or to say that you now have the tools needed. We don't have enough tools. On the other hand, we know a lot about what's going on to prevent bullying. It is now three years since the Djupedal Committee presented its position. Too many of their proposals are still untouched. In the previous period, the Workers' Party promoted 25 proposals to combat bullying. Nor did the government at that time believe that the 25 were the right measures. We also made proposals of 84 million. kr more for bullying measures in the alternative budget. In the draft budget, the government had no new proposals for action. This is possible because the government believes that the measures they have taken are sufficient. That's an honest point. But that's what the Workers' Party has to do with it. The fact that a change in laws has been made, among other things, in the case of County as a body of appeal, that is correct. But the point must be to prevent bullying before it happens, intervene as soon as it occurs. To say here that the changes are working, pointing out that the number of complaints to the County State has increased: it is a symptom that this is a major problem, not that the bullying has decreased. We must always be looking for all the new, good measures. The preparedness team for bullying is one of several proposals that can counteract bullying. It is also a measure that no longer receives State funding. When an argument is used that it prevents local solutions, I could quote what FUG and KS say that this has chosen the municipalities to solve in different ways. When you say here and in the Council's letter of reply that such measures will not work if the municipalities themselves do not want to resolve matters, I believe that it is a too passive attitude and a wrong logic. If a municipality does not want to solve bullying, they must be forced to do so. 50,000 students don't have time to wait. They don't have health to wait. That is why it is adopted, among other things. obligation of activity. That kind of imposition fits some parts here when they themselves are for it, but not other times. The proposal for a response team has been promoted precisely because, at Stortinget, we are responsible for everything that can be done, and because it is an instrument that ensures that municipalities gather their resources, organise their resources so that they work quickly and targeted against bullying. Governments had good arguments for emergency teams. It's a shame they choose to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1484	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1500	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on this matter. It is good that there is a cross-political consensus that we need to strengthen Norwegian competence in the kindergarten sector. Unfortunately, we know that there are too few language skills in parts of the sector, and that there are considerable differences between kindergartens and between municipalities. This means that the quality of the child's supply becomes uneven and too random. It is important that employees with a minority background have sufficient Norwegian skills to communicate well with parents, children and colleagues. It is especially important for the children. Language is key to play, new friendships and learning. Children shall experience a high-quality kindergarten day where they are able to develop well. Sadly, it is for many children who start school today with so weak Norwegian skills that they cannot follow normal education despite the fact that many have actually gone to kindergarten for a longer time before school. It is then right and proper that the blue-green government proposes to impose some basic language requirements on the sector and that the proposal now appears to be supported by all parties on the Stortinget. The right considers that the proposition takes on a number of important considerations. Municipalities will still have the opportunity to impose stricter language requirements if they so wish. Furthermore, the proposal provides sufficient room for action for kindergarten owners to exceptionally employ applicants who do not meet the requirement at that time but who have other useful skills. It is important to avoid the requirement becoming so rigid in municipalities that it excludes competent applicants from the sector. At the same time, it is very important to stress that the pediatric centre’s management has a responsibility to ensure that its employees receive continuous qualifications. The need for skills in working life is constantly changing and the new framework plan imposes stricter requirements on the content and competence of kindergartens. The quality promise, which we have started in kindergartens, requires the management of Kinderhagen to take action to raise the applicant’s Norwegian skills even after they are employed and in work. In recent years, we have ensured a significant strengthening of the Competence Plus scheme. It has enabled more people in the kindergarten sector to learn basic skills as Norwegian at work. We have strengthened the appropriations for quality in kindergartens. But we need to do more to ensure good pediatric competence in kindergartens. All municipalities and private kindergartens should have a plan for improving their staff competence. The kindergarten shall be a place where employees develop professionally, both individually and in a professional community. Sufficient Norwegian skills are clearly a prerequisite for such work. It is quality to be set in the driving seat of kindergarten policy, so I believe that language requirements for new employees are an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1517	Kindergarten is an important area for language development for children. It is therefore essential that adults in the kindergarten speak Norwegian in order to communicate well with the children. The Christian People’s Party therefore supports the government’s proposal to introduce a language test requirement, but would stress that liquid Norwegian is not a prerequisite for being a good caregiver. Therefore, kindergarten owners must continue to have the freedom to assess whether a competent person with somewhat lower language skills can nevertheless make an important contribution to kindergarten. There are many different ways in which you can organise the work of kindergarten and carry out a good pedagogical approach, which sometimes makes it advisable to employ someone who has not achieved level A2 on the sub-test in writing and level B1 on the sub-tests in reading, listening comprehension and verbal communication. The IMF consultation response underlines the importance of the use of the exemptions provided for in order not to prevent people with any lower Norwegian skills from entering the labour market and also to be employed in kindergartens where this is pedagogically sound. Let me quote from the IMFI hearing opinion: ‘IMDi wants to highlight that women are an important working group for kindergartens. Many of the women are also mothers, and the value of working in kindergartens goes beyond just being employed. They are role models, both for their own children and for the children in kindergarten. Public workplaces as kindergartens are important social actors in such a perspective. The IMDi would like to stress the need for exceptional provisions in order to avoid that the legalisation of the language requirement helps the sector to miss out on skilled labour, that the entry criterion of the labour market can be inconvenient to some, or that it discourages the integration efforts of municipalities, including the contribution of municipalities to the arena through their own workplaces.» The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the introduction of a legal language requirement be combined with measures to increase language competence. In this context, good results can be referred to in Oslo, where the municipality avails itself of today's ability to impose language requirements on fixed-term employment and at the same time rates of empowerment on those already employed but who have too poor Norwegian skills, by providing them with Norwegian courses funded by the municipality. Int. 348 S for 2015-2016 underlined the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party that in the context of a new legislative proposal, this should be ‘in such a way that kindergartens, municipalities, are given an obligation to draw up concrete plans for language highlighting of children's home workers, and to ensure that an adequate proportion of employees have adequate Norwegian skills, but at the same time do not impede the flexibility for employing low-language personnel in kindergartens where a good Norwegian language environment is ensured’. It is important, in the view of the Christian People's Party, that the nursery owners are given this space for action to employ applicants who do not always meet the requirement at that time but who have other relevant competences. This derogation is necessary to ensure that the requirement does not become too rigid and excludes otherwise competent applicants from the kindergarten sector. Therefore, the Christian People's Party would point out that the government's proposal for language requirements, which we support, should be combined with an obligation for municipalities to draw up a language highlighting plan. I would otherwise like to refer to the rapporteur's good review.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1539	Language is the key to equal opportunities in school and society. Good kindergartens are essential for ensuring equal opportunities and good living conditions for all. Kindergarten is an important venue for inclusion and language training. Ten years ago, the leader of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, spoke about language training, free core time in kindergartens and empowerment for kindergarten teachers working with minority speakers. The left has since been the driving force for language training to be given a greater place in kindergartens. Learning is done through play, and good educators around the children are important. The NOVA report on minorities in secondary school shows that the trial of free core time in kindergarten for minority speakers has benefited from the fact that the same children do better when they come to school. The SSB figures show that there has also been an increase in the proportion of minority children in kindergarten in the last 10 years. Norwegian skills requirements are important for those working in kindergarten. In particular, this is important for minority children who speak little or no Norwegian. I am surprised that as a first-generation immigrant, I speak Norwegian better than children born and raised in Norway. I was lucky to enter Norwegian kindergartens with many ethnic Norwegian children from whom I could learn the Norwegian language. It is not obvious that all children are given this opportunity today. Language is demanding, so language-qualified kindergarten teachers are important. To get to such a high level through the course of education that you can see the difference between the loop at the time and the loop at the time [[muttering in the hall]] At the same time, it is important to ensure an offer of good Norwegian training for child care workers. Changes in the kindergarten law, with language requirements and with the exceptions it has, shall not be used to exclude kindergarten workers, but to improve them, so that they become even better resources for our children. Good language skills in adults working in kindergarten also allow good dialogue with parents. At the same time, the nursery is an important incentive arena and not just a storage site. In kindergarten, the early language develops, and for many minority students this will be the only arena in which Norwegian is spoken. The adults who work with our children are important resources, and their skills mean something to the development of the children. The changes in the kindergarten law mentioned in the proposal, with language requirements for kindergarten workers, ensure the possibility of good dialogue with parents and better language stimulation of children, which will in the long run bring benefits in terms of more language-conscious children when they start school. It's set at five million. DKK 100 more places for further training in language development and language learning for kindergarten teachers in 2018. The combination of free core time, more minority children in kindergarten and better language stimulation will provide a good basis for further education for all children. Both Norwegian and minority children need good language training and language stimulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1559	Kindergartens are an important common arena in our society. 96 pst. of all three-year-olds in kindergarten. It makes kindergarten an important playground for play and learning, but it also imposes a responsibility to ensure the quality of kindergartens. Kindergarten time is the time when children are most receptive to learning, and we know that a good foundation within language skills and other skills will follow the children further in life. Therefore, language learning in kindergarten is particularly important. It is especially crucial for the children who grow up in their homes where other languages are spoken at the kitchen table. The government wants to strengthen the use of Norwegian languages and work on language development in kindergartens to prepare children for school and education. The competence and Norwegian skills of employees are essential for the development of children in kindergarten. Studies show that it may be challenging for kindergarten workers to have insufficient Norwegian skills to perform the tasks assigned to kindergarten. In the Education Directorate’s survey on the kindergarten sector in 2015, 562 kindergartens report having at least one employee in a first language other than Norwegian. In these daycare centres, one in three directors in the last year experienced that one or more of these employees do not have enough Norwegian skills to communicate well with children, parents and other colleagues. The Norwegian skills of minority children at school start vary greatly. How good Norwegian skills children have at school start-ups can be, among other things, relate to the duration of the child’s childhood and the quality of the child’s supply. Therefore, good kindergartens are particularly important for integration and early intervention. I believe that a requirement for a Norwegian test could ensure that those who are employed in kindergarten have sufficient Norwegian skills. The proposed requirement for Norwegian skills means that an employee can write short, simple messages to parents and employees and briefly tell about experiences with the children. Furthermore, it means that people can understand the main points of clear text and talk about familiar topics that a frequent encounter with work, school and leisure. I believe that Norwegian skills at this level are a prerequisite for carrying out the tasks assigned to kindergarten, but let me stress that such a test is not in itself sufficient. It is also essential that the nursery owner, whether a private owner or a public owner, contribute to the provision of childcare skills and to the enhancement of competences. When we demand language skills, it's because we're genuinely concerned with the skills that create quality in children's everyday lives. That is why we continue to invest in continuing training for all employees working in kindergarten. We want more employees with child-care skills, because kindergarten is an important place for both play, learning and development. We have recently established a reinforced standard of education. In a short time, we will also be tabling proposals for a standard of manpower. The aim of these measures is kindergartens that provide children with a safe everyday life and the development of skills they need for the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1580	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1596	I would like to begin by saying hello to the President-in-Office, who unfortunately had to keep the bed. On behalf of the President-in-Office of the Committee, I would like to thank you so much for the good cooperation we have had in this matter. For a long time, there has been broad political agreement on the need for a student ombudsman, and political signals have therefore long been sent to the sector, which for many reasons is an autonomous sector. In this way it is reassuring to see that over time universities and colleges have largely facilitated the voice of students, the protection of law and the well-being of students. At the same time, we have recently become aware that not everyone has come as far in this work, and that not all institutions have done the task as well as we want. Today, when we go together unanimously to legislate a student agent, it's an expression that we take this very seriously, and that we want to guarantee all students equal rights. Chances shall not exist in such a central area as this. At the same time, we should facilitate an organisation to take account of the different assumptions that exist in the sector. Today, I will also be allowed to praise the Norwegian student organisation, the NSO, for a clear and constructive student voice, and not least to thank for a good cooperation in raising what we can say a little bit broadly is quality in higher education. I would assume that I have the whole committee with me when I point out that the government, now that they start their work in lawmaking student representatives, should just include all students, in other words that you also follow up to college students. So far, the government has made a solid commitment to this sector, and today we have the opportunity to send signals that we are taking over and will continue this work by ensuring that also the college students are included in the legal work to be started. In this context, I would also like to stress that the vocational school students have worked well and constructively towards us in the Committee. I thank you for the work and the recordings they have made, and I look forward to hearing how the Council of State looks at and follows up this work from its side. I know there's a lot of students who enjoy what we're doing here today. If we also now include the post-secondary students, there is little doubt that, in sum, we help everyone to feel safe in higher education in Norway, regardless of the place of study, length of study or size of the institution. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation and look forward to examining the legislative proposals as soon as they are ready. Congratulations on the day, all students!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1609	Yes, this is a happy day for all the students in Norway. The Storting decides, on a proposal from the Workers' Party, to legitimise access to student representatives, regardless of where you study, and regardless of the ownership and size of the place of study. Today, this type of representative exists at ten major state educational institutions. No private institutions have agents so far. The students' legal protection is not as good throughout the country. This bias corrects the Storing today. What does a student representative do? For those who do not know so much about it yet: these are independent legal actors who offer advice and assistance in everyday study life and ensure that students’ rights are respected. The Norwegian student organisation really deserves a reward for the successful and active work of student representatives over several years. I am glad that today they can celebrate a political victory. For us in the Workers' Party, it is important that education policy puts students in the centre, and that we take care of the whole human being in the education process. As future-oriented politicians, of course, we listen to the future, to the students. In August, the left-wing representative Trine Skei Grande went out in Khrono and argued against the law enforcement of the Student Ombudsman that this was to allow inflation to take place in ombudsmanship – in a good Norwegian unnecessary and excessive use of the scheme. The Student Ombudsman was something only politicians who did not take responsibility wanted. In full seriousness, the representative Skei Grande argued that she should be the student’s representative. But then came the metoo campaign, which showed that gross abuse of power in the form of sexual harassment can affect Norwegian students. The Left, Right and Advance Party, which had also opposed the law enforcement of student representatives, turned around, all of them. Afterwards, they even wrote a joint reading in Khrono entitled ‘All students shall have access to student representatives’. They could have pointed out that this was a matter for which the students themselves had the credit, and that there were other parties that had proposed and gathered a majority for the law. The Student Ombudsman had probably been adopted today, no matter what the government parties may think of it. But now leave it. It should have been clear to most that individual politicians in the ombudsman role have neither the capacity nor the competence to solve the concrete challenges that students have. The hundreds of cases that the student representatives deal with each year show that they are in great need. The University of Oslo was a pioneer in Norway, and they have reported a 150pst. increase in enquiries since the Ombudsman started. Of course, this is not primarily about sexual harassment, however important that problem is. It's just a little shame that the right parties needed as strong warnings as the metoo to finally respond. Norwegian student organisation is worth listening to. The student ombudsman is a low-threshold offer in different fields — from the more ordinary cases in which some people consider themselves unfairly treated, for example. in connection with examination censorship, to serious cases such as harassment. Student ombudsmen can also guide students to the right place in a complex and very unbridled organisation. Although student representatives have essentially the same mandate, the institutions themselves must continue to decide on the organisation. The sector is and shall be diverse and educational institutions shall be able to cooperate in the provision of ombudsmen. After a proposal was voted down in the previous period, the Workers' Party renewed its proposal in October because we want all students to have access to a student representative. Legislation is essential for everyone to have equal rights and necessary legal certainty wherever they study and whether they study publicly, privately, in a large or small institution. Even though we had a majority without the government parties, we are happy that they come after, and that there is unanimity, because this is such an important matter for so many young people. Now I expect and look forward to a rapid change in the law, so that students can access an ombudsman as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1630	This is a victory for the students. This shows that we are making serious recordings from the students, and that we can make some positive experiences the general rule, namely that the legal certainty for the students should be put in place: we are going to legislate the student representative. In 2013, the first student ombudsman was employed at the University of Oslo. In the years that followed, more and more educational institutions have followed. In a complex study situation and everyday life, the value of an independent person who can provide advice and assistance is great. Ten study places today have student representatives, and we have a way to go. I hope that the remaining places of study will take up this challenge with open arms and also say clearly from what is needed to get this in place. The organisation is important for the educational institutions themselves to choose what to do. Here, higher education should gather and share experiences for the organisation and practice of student representatives addressing the issues raised by the students. Everything from discrimination and harassment to purely professional issues needs to be caught up and addressed. This will enhance the legal certainty of students and thus also strengthen the professional community. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have been critical of the Student Ombudsman in the past. Fortunately, it is a new year with new opportunities, and we have gained new experience. The opposition is once again taking action for improvement, and fortunately the government parties are following. We heard the students' wish the last time the proposal was up, and we still hear the students' wish. The NSO and others have made a clear statement. The student institutions themselves have said that they are positive. This is now, with a total accumulation in the back, one and only a cause of joy. It shows that commitment is beneficial and that big words can become political concrete action. This is a victory for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1643	The learning environment of students is an important part of the quality experienced in conducting a university-level study. From the student team, there have been reports of considerable differences in how the institutions today follow up on the student learning environment and a strong concern that not everyone takes their responsibilities seriously enough. For the Christian People's Party, the law on the establishment of student representatives, either alone or in cooperation with other institutions, is about an important measure to improve the quality of the learning environment. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the proposers for presenting proposals for the creation of student representatives, an action which was also supported by the Christian People's Party during the previous period. Akademia is built with strong hierarchical structures. In the Christian People's Party, we believe a student representative will make it easier to report critical issues, such as: unfair treatment or sexual harassment. The assumption is that the student representative is independent and can act in a way that follows the student's rights and dares to point to injustice. It also requires courage, not just professional competence. Student ombudsmen should therefore have good legal competence and otherwise have competence in the areas for which they are needed, in order to ensure that students’ rights are properly respected. Student ombudsmen will perform an important function at educational institutions and provide important assistance to students by having the skills, rights and systems that characterise everyday study life. There is also reason to believe that only through the establishment of the Student Ombudsman scheme will the individual institution that does not currently have the scheme have a completely different and increased awareness of all the issues contained in the mandate of the Ombudsman. The educational institutions that currently have representatives are mainly large public educational institutions, and by 2017 there are no private institutions offering student representations to their students. Through today's decision, Stortinget says that all students in Norwegian higher education should have access to a student representative, including the students at the private colleges. The organisation of student ombudsmen will be able to decide for themselves. The diversity of the institutional landscape means that ombudsmen must be able to have different organisation and e.g. cover several campers with a larger geographical spread. Learning places should decide for themselves how this is to be done, and preferably also in cooperation with other institutions if a person experiences it properly. Otherwise, I refer you to the good review of the working case rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1658	The student's struggle to get a student representative is today crowned with victory. It is a unanimous growth that is behind the demand of the Norwegian student organisation – and which the student organisation has fought for a long time – to get a student representative in place. I want to start by nudging some of the claims that come from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, because it is not that the government has previously opposed the Student Ombudsman. There are actually student representatives at ten institutions already today, and no one has been against it. What has been a subject in the past is whether or not it should be legislated – that one thus instructs the different institutions to set up a student representative. The government has been a little skeptical about this in the past, but we believe it has been a process, not least in the light of the Metoo campaign, which shows that there is a need for this to be available at all institutions. As I said, there are already ten institutions that have student representatives, and the University of Oslo was already out in 2013 with such an agent. Most of the agents we have today are linked to the major state educational institutions. They're doing an important job today to protect students' rights. The student ombudsman is today, and should remain, an independent representative who can help students with everyday challenges, such as: in the case of professional quality failures. Students shall feel safe and secure in warning of sexual harassment to the Student Ombudsman. Academia consists of some of Norway's very best heads, but are hierarchically organized and teachers and supervisors are authoritative staff for the students. This gives us a starting point that can be a little difficult, and the student representatives can help to reduce some of the imbalance. In the spring there have been reports to the media about many warning cases of sexual harassment at Norwegian educational institutions, and the warning cases concern a great many of the schools. There is something the government looks very serious about, and an action to counteract such an unculture can be to legislate student representatives at all universities and colleges in Norway. However, it is important to stress that the primary responsibility for preventing and stopping sexual harassment lies not with the student ombudsman; it remains with the educational institution. Although the Metoo campaign has given the debate on student ombudsmen a new dimension, it is important to stress that student ombudsmen should not only work on issues relating to sexual harassment, they must have a broader mandate. The Student Ombudsman is an independent actor to provide students with independent and impartial advice and assistance on matters relating to the relationship with the educational institution. They can help solve matters at the lowest possible level and answer questions about students' rights and obligations. They may also, for example: read through draft complaints. Although the government will make proposals to legislate student representatives, it is important that there is no conflict between the student representative, the student democracy and the students’ trust elected. These are bodies that have to work together and not against each other. Furthermore, it is important that universities and colleges continue to enjoy high levels of professional and organisational freedom. The organisation of the student ombudsman in each organisation or the organisation of the student ombudsman as a cooperation between institutions should be determined in the sector. The government then believes it is important that the institution and the board of directors of the institution listen to trusted students on how the student ombudsman should best be organised. The mandate of the student representatives should be similar throughout the country. It is important that all students have access to student representatives through this amendment, whether they are students at state or private institutions. The government will now return to Stortinget following an ordinary legislative process with proposals to legislate student representatives at all universities and colleges, as the Stortinget asks for. This will happen in the spring of 2019, but I will already encourage all universities and colleges that today do not have student representatives to start work on preparing the scheme that they know is now coming, regardless of when we get the law change. Finally, I just want to relate a few words to what the representative Kent Gudmundsen challenged the government on: whether the student representative should only apply to students at universities and colleges, or whether it should also apply to students at colleges. Now it's like the colleges are the state council Sanner who has the constitutional responsibility for. I have, however, spoken to the State Council of Sanner about this today, and we agree that a student representative must also apply to those who are students at the colleges, because it is the same issues that the college students face that justify the amendment in order to put in place student representatives for the university and higher education sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1679	This is a big day, and it is not because for the first time after four and a half years at Stortinget I have got 15 minutes of speaking time. It's a pleasure day for all students who now have access to student representatives. I would like to say a thousand thanks to the students and the Norwegian student organisation for bringing the matter up and standing by, so that today we get the result we get. I also want to thank the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left and just point out to them that sometimes it is wise to turn around, it should be done if the matter is good. I want to comment on a few of the things that have come up. The first is that Højres representative Gudmundsen addressed also the subject students should be covered by the student representative scheme. It is the Workers' Party in full agreement, precisely as the State Council Nybø pointed out, because as students they are subject to the same challenges. That was why the Workers’ Party proposed that the college students also participate in student relations, precisely because they meet the same challenges. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left should also take a new look at that particular case – if the vocational school students should also be allowed access to interact. But now it's like this, I think this is a happy signal, and if the government wants the students to have access to the student representative, we're ready to support the matter, and I'm counting on the rest of the Storting, if the government promotes a case. The other thing I want to point out is that in the Workers' Party we believe that this is a relatively simple change in the law, and that therefore it should not go winter and spring until we ensure that this comes into place. It should be done quickly, and then under the clear conditions – as the Committee also pointed out – that there should be independent legal representation, a low-threshold offer that can follow up matters that are important for students in their everyday lives. Finally, I would like to point out that although this is a joyous day for the students, we should not believe that the students' everyday study life, the challenges they have, their legal certainty or the learning environment are solved by introducing a student representative. Student representatives are important, but we still need more knowledge, for example: on living conditions through living conditions surveys. We need a better understanding of the student's learning environment and better lawmaking. And we need a greater effort to ensure students' mental health. The job of improving students' daily lives is not over, but today's decision to guarantee all students' rights is an important step on the way. And to me this is historic, I've never gone down from the pulpit with 12 minutes left at the clock. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1694	The President shall draw attention to the fact that any speaking time is up to a certain number of minutes. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1712	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1719	It's an important matter we're going to deal with now. There are many people who are busy with this theme. Once again, the EEA Agreement imposes the main restrictions on the extent to which we can reduce the export of Norwegian welfare benefits. The government will come back to Stortinget with any concrete amendments. As I said, there is a lot of money, but we all need to be aware that there is the most money related to old age retirement and old age pensioners living abroad, and the rest of the world is – for most people – primarily our neighboring country. Every year a number of Norwegians and others leave Norway with the right to be paid Norwegian welfare benefits. There is also a marked increase in the number of Norwegians who want to spend time as old-age pensioners or non-employees abroad. In addition, there are migrants who, through legal residence and work in Norway, become members of the population and deserve the right to Norwegian welfare goods, which can be exported later. The possibility of cross-border free movement has brought benefits to Norway, but it also presents problems. The Communication mentions some of the most key challenges when the picture of migration is seen in the context of existing national and international legislation, in terms of the generation and payment of Norwegian welfare benefits. It is to a large extent a joint committee that has dealt with the matter. The Committee notes that of various international agreements involving the extension of export rights for Norwegian social security benefits, the EEA Agreement is the most important. Furthermore, the Committee notes that the Government states: ‘The restrictions in the space resulting from Norway’s international obligations make it challenging to implement effective measures against social security exports.’ An overall committee notes that all Norwegian bilateral social security agreements have a more limited scope of action than the coordination rules in the EEA area and in the Nordic Convention. Furthermore, it is an overall committee that points out that the social security coordination of the EU/EEA Regulation is based on five basic principles. The first is equal treatment of nationalities. The second is that a person should be covered by one, and only one, country's social security legislation. The third principle concerns the aggregation of time. The fourth principle is that cash benefits which may otherwise be paid under the law of an EEA country or regulation shall not be subject to any reduction, addition, suspension, withdrawal or confiscation because the beneficiary or his family member lives in another EEA country. Finally, the principle of proportionality, which means that pensions are measured according to the level of earnings in each country. The only discrepancy that arises in the setting at this point is related to a quote in the Storing Message, where the government according to Section 2.3 indicates that: «the provisions of the international agreements intervene in national law and go ahead if there is a conflict between the two sets of rules». It was quite special that not everyone in the committee could agree to that, and I found it necessary, as the case-in-law, to ask the Council of State by letter to answer how this was done. After the second question, Document 15:983 for 2017-2018, which was answered by the Council of State on 22 February 2018, the Council of State confirms the understanding of the Central Party and the SV when the Council of State concludes: ‘In the light of the above, it can therefore be confirmed that provisions of bilateral and multilateral agreements in the field of social security, which have been made part of Norwegian law in compliance with the EEA law or the Law on Social Security, are in conflict with the otherwise applicable provisions of the Law on Social Security.’ I thank the Council of State for the fact that what she says in the message is consistent with what she says, and what she says in the answer. What is quite special, however, is that the government parties could not sign on this fact. It's a weakness. Finally, I would like to point out that what is at the heart of the matter is measures against welfare exports and ‘actions which have not yet been completed, but which it would be natural to assess more closely’, as the government says. At that point, the government gets the agreement of an overall committee, where one says that the objective is: ‘to reduce the export of Norwegian welfare benefits. The Committee notes that the EEA Agreement limits what Norway can do to limit social security exports.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1755	Exports of welfare services are slightly more batches have been busy for a long time. The Government Party Progress Party is perhaps the most prominent and has for a number of years been opposed to social security exports, preferably to specific countries. Thus, despite five years in government, exports of social security benefits have continued to increase. In the Labour Party we wrote the following good wording in the party programme before the 2013 elections: ‘The movement flows of the day make it natural to examine whether the legislation is in line with the new reality. In the further development of the welfare society, we place more emphasis on services than on cash transfers. [[...]] The Labour Party will invalidate purchasing power adjustment of exportable benefits from social security, with the exception of disability benefits and old-age pensions’. Report. St. 40 for 2016-2017, Exports of Norwegian welfare benefits, are a good start to meet our goals that deal with sustainability of the schemes, the legitimacy of the population and the earned rights of individuals. Our welfare systems must be sustainable because the space for action in future budgets is getting tighter and will demand that the benefits are met by those for whom they are intended. Then we must ensure that schemes such as child welfare, cash support – if we are to have it – and education support are designed to achieve the objectives of the Stortinget, whether it is an improved economy for families with children or education for Norwegian citizens abroad. The legitimacy of the arrangements is perhaps the most important thing we make a small contribution to here today. Exports of the performances referred to in the Storing Communication do not put the sustainability of the welfare country to the test. However, we need to ensure that legitimacy is maintained by combating exports of systems that break the working line and are perceived as unwarranted. Indeed, the notification of the crash is clear that today’s social security exports do not put the sustainability of the welfare state to the test. Social security exports in 2016 were 1.7 pst. of the payments of popular interest. However, exports have increased sharply in recent decades, and there is reason to believe that the increase will continue unless we seize. The Government shall now publish an investigative task to foresee the development of future social security exports with a long-term perspective. This will be an important work and the thematics should be appropriate to be included in the next Perspective Communication. Some would argue that international rules restrict our scope of action in this matter. It results in a certain degree of correctness. Exports of social security benefits are based on the EEA Agreement and bilateral and multilateral agreements, not least through national laws. The Committee notes: ‘The restrictions in the space resulting from Norway’s international obligations make it challenging to implement effective measures against social security exports.’ It is therefore important to point out that these are obligations we have chosen to assume ourselves. Social security exports have not been adopted by a supranational body we are involved in against our will — on the contrary, Norway itself has actively entered into the agreements that warrant this. Finally, I would like to comment on the export of education aid. Exports of education support are a fantastic image of Norwegian citizens turning around and applying for education in other countries. Some 17 000 students receive support for training abroad. Almost everyone is back in Norway a few years after finishing education. This strengthens Norway as a nation in all possible ways. Our business, public sector and organisations benefit from their employees and future managers studying and getting impulses from places other than Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, etc. Therefore, the government or the Storting should not be afraid of exporting training aid, all the time this is a good service to the community, both in the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1789	In 2016, the total welfare export amounted to 10.7 billion. SEK, broken down by 7.1 billion. kr on social security and SEK 3.6 billion. kr on training aid. Although this is not a major concern at the moment, it could in some way develop into an economic challenge. In the Jeleia Declaration, the government reiterated the ambition of the Sundvolden platform to assess measures that could limit and halt the export of welfare benefits, including: work for EU acceptance for purchasing power adjustment of welfare benefits. However, the government warns that it is not desirable to limit people’s ability to take pensions and disability while living abroad. These are benefits normally earned over a long period of time in employment and housing in Norway. The Communication presents both the national and international legislation governing the export of social security benefits and training aid. Yes, it is recognised that Norway's international obligations limit the scope of action we have to limit welfare exports, but we should remember that this also guarantees people's acquired rights by having worked in Norway, and as the representative Knutsen pointed out, through agreements we wanted to enter into, and agreements that serve Norway well. Changes and restrictions have already been made to limit so-called welfare exports, such as intensification of the right to child protection while living abroad. Under the Child Protection Act, it is a condition for the right to child protection that the child is resident in Norway. It is clarified that the payment of a pension or disability benefit falls away during acquittal of punishment abroad. Payments of public benefits and child contributions when one of the parents has abducted a child abroad have been stopped, to mention something. Measures that have been assessed but not yet taken are, for example: conversion of cash support into a municipal benefit. In addition, there are a number of measures that the government wants to assess in the future, such as: stop benefits to persons who have travelled abroad in order to avoid criminal prosecution and stop benefits to persons who are expelled from Norway due to criminal offences. In other words, a lot of good work is done in this area. In addition, the government considers that it is in principle right to make a purchasing power adjustment to child benefit and cash support when these benefits are exported to other EEA countries. This means adjusting the amounts of social security benefits paid to the rest of the world according to the level of costs in the country concerned. Thus, the real value of the benefit is the same as if the money were used in Norway. It appears unreasonable that foreign-resident families are given significantly greater purchasing power than families living in Norway with the same benefits. Purchasing power adjustment is therefore important to maintain the legitimacy of these welfare benefits. Calculations have been made to show that the sum of Norwegian child benefit and cash support in 2015 was 15,8 pst. of an average annual salary in Norway. However, in Poland the sum of these Norwegian benefits was 95,8 pst. of the average annual salary, and in Lithuania a total of 122.3 pst. This may weaken the incentives for the participation of non-resident spouses of EEA citizens working in Norway to mention some of the negative consequences. Purchasing power adjustment for child benefit and cash support is demanding. These are benefits which can initially only be exported within the EEA. However, within the EEA there are rules on social security coordination, which means that social security benefits should not be stopped or reduced because the recipient or the children live in another country. The United Kingdom had actually initiated changes in this area, but, as we all know, these plans have been abandoned. However, there are several countries that have addressed changes, and Norway should be provided with an explanation of the potential for purchasing power adjustment of child benefit and cash support. With the support of the Storting, the government will contact the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, and clarify the possibilities for purchasing power adjustment of child benefit and cash support. But the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left believe it has been important to ensure a wide lashing before ESA is contacted in order to clarify the possibilities available to do just that. It would be premature to submit a draft provision before this anchorage has been clarified. The design of such a provision has to be investigated, but we obviously meet the legislative proposal when it comes. The Committee agrees with the government's objective of reducing the export of Norwegian welfare benefits and also that the government is following up on the measures that it is natural to consider more closely. Then we believe that the government has got the broad anchoring that we thought was important initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1812	Norway has and shall have a good welfare system, which captures those in need of benefits and assistance. We all pay into the community, so that society can help you when you get sick, unemployed, retired or have a baby — or sometimes when you need help. This welfare system has broad support for Norway, but at the same time we must always have a critical look at all welfare systems to ensure that they reach those who need it the most and that the schemes are adapted to the time we live in at all times. The welfare system we have in Norway is one of the best things in the world, the most lucrative. Large parts of the world are not close to having the arrangements we have, and when we combine them with the high level of wages and prices we have in Norway — which also reflects several welfare benefits — it goes without saying that there are more people who want to access these welfare benefits. The Progress Party considers that Norwegian welfare benefits should, as a general rule, go to Norwegian citizens and others who live and work in Norway. This means, for example: that a Norwegian pensioner who has paid taxes and social security contributions over a long life should, of course, be able to take the pension where he or she wishes. However, if they are people who have barely put their legs in Norway, we think it is going to be wrong for them to receive Norwegian welfare goods. That is why the Progress Party has addressed this issue several times. I had an interpellation in 2014 about social security exports. In that debate there were two representatives from the Labour Party who participated, among others. Today's president, and the undersigned and the Progress Party were criticised for addressing this issue at all. The working party said this was no problem. I am very happy that it now appears that the Workers' Party has changed its perception, because it is important, among other things. in order to ensure the legitimacy of the system, that Norwegian welfare goods are not exported where they should not initially be. I am pleased that we now have a government that addresses this challenge – even before the challenge becomes too big. In the last four years, several issues have already been dealt with where we have tightened up the possibility of social security exports, and now we get this message, which clearly shows that the government is taking this very seriously and is looking at what action rooms we have. When you come to the purchasing power adjustment of child benefit and cash support, I believe it is an important step on the way. I am pleased that we have a government that dares to address these difficult and problematic issues in the EU system, in order to make this happen. So this is a happy day, this is a good start, but we can't – when you hopefully get the purchasing power adjustment of child benefit and cash support – rest with this. There are still more interventions that should be taken in the years to come, so that we ensure that Norwegian welfare goods actually go to Norwegian citizens and to those who live in and pay taxes to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1827	As shown in the notification, a number of people are choosing to take advantage of access to Norwegian welfare services while they are abroad. In 2016, the last year for which final statistics are available, the total exports of social security benefits and education aid amounted to approximately 10.7 billion. kr. It is a significant amount, consisting mainly of social security payments of SEK 7.1 billion. kr and training aid of SEK 3,6 billion. kr. These exports are increasing from year to year, and there is reason to believe that the mechanisms that drive this development will also continue. I therefore believe it is inconceivable that welfare exports will in the long term develop into an economic challenge. In view of this, the Government wishes to assess, as indicated in the JELUEA declaration, measures that may limit and halt the export of welfare benefits. I am pleased that an overall committee has joined this overall objective. However, as mentioned in the Communication, the restrictions in the space for action resulting from Norway’s international obligations make it challenging to implement effective measures against welfare exports. The Communication presents some export restrictive measures already implemented or proposed by the Government. Furthermore, some measures are presented that have not yet been identified but which would be natural to be further explored. I am pleased that a joint committee also agrees that this should be pursued further. One of these measures — which have already received some attention, including in this room now — is the purchasing power adjustment of child benefit and cash support exported to other EEA countries. Purchasing power adjustment means that the benefits are converted according to the ratio between the purchasing power it provides in Norway and the country of residence in question, so that the real value is the same as if the money were used in Norway. If the Storting agrees, the Government will contact the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, in order to clarify the possibilities for introducing such a solution. There is now a debate on this within the EU. Several initiatives have also been taken from different EU countries following the submission of this notification. However, although we know that this is being discussed in other EU countries, the government still believes it is important and right to ensure that such a controversial measure as we know this is well anchored in Stortinget before we engage in dialogue with ESA. As the Communication shows, there is also considerable intra-EU resistance to opening up purchasing power adjustments to exported family benefits, but the discussion on the subject cannot in any way be considered to be concluded. The Jeløya Declaration explicitly states that the government wants to work for EU acceptance for purchasing power adjustment of welfare benefits. Work is under way and in cooperation with other countries with an interest in doing so, to influence the EU institutions and individual EU countries in order to bring about changes in the legal situation in this area. At the same time, I would like to stress that the communication warns that the government does not want to introduce measures restricting access to exports of the pensions of the people and disability benefits. These are long-term benefits, with work or residence in Norway, and as seen, they are in a slightly different category than purchasing power adjustment of family benefits. However, I note that there is still a great deal of support for the main intention of the communication, and it also promises for future proposals and initiatives that are going in an insistent direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1846	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1851	I would like to start by thanking the Council of State for a good review of the content of the matter. In the opinions of the representative Wiborg, to whom the Council of State should not respond, he commented and almost claimed that some had turned. It's not right – at least for my party – but it's more about the proportions of language usage on this challenge we're facing. As I said in my introduction initially, the Labour Party and I believe that there is a great deal of legitimacy in the arrangements we are doing today. Governments were also concerned with the sustainability of the schemes in the long term. Payments to the rest of the world increased by 15 million between 2016 and 2021. kr, while the total increase is half a billion dollars until 2021. Half a billion dollars have been discussed a lot in this house over the past few weeks, to the cash support being increased, but it is also with knowledge and will. And child welfare abroad is increasing by 50 million. kr. My question to the Council of State is, what action is being taken here today will improve the sustainability of the arrangements in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1862	As we have explained in the Communication, several measures have already been implemented. We will also explain initiatives that we want to further investigate on export-restrictive measures. It is also framed in the message what you want to go on with. It was not long ago that we decided to tighten up living requirements in order to receive cash support, which would also result in significant tightening. So there's a lot of measures we're now investigating to look at the possibilities of tightening up. But as we also say in the Communication, there are some challenges, both – of course – with the agreements we are obliged to follow, and with some of our international obligations in relation to exports. We come back to Stortinget when we have investigated the other measures that we have outlined in the notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1872	The Committee and the Storting agree that one should do something about child benefit and cash support, to adjust their purchasing power, while the old-age pension is not to be taken into account. Everyone agrees. That's why we have also responded to the problem description in this case, when the child benefit payments abroad, as I said, will increase by 50 million. kr until 2021, and for cash support, the increase will be 15 million. kr with the current set of rules, while the old-age pension payments to the rest of the world – if I read the message correctly – will increase by 1.3 billion. kr. That's why I ask the Council of State for purchasing power adjustment of child welfare and cash support to make the welfare state's arrangements more sustainable than they do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1877	This alone will hardly contribute to making it particularly sustainable, but that is the sum of the proposals we have and that we want to clarify. There is also a significant export of other benefits — both health and daily benefits are benefits that are also exported to a large extent. Some of the challenge there is that while we impose a significant follow-up regime and activity requirements on our own citizens when they live in Norway and receive, for example, Health benefits and daily allowances are more difficult to have the same follow-up regime when exporting benefits out of the country — assuming, of course, that if you take the health benefits to another country, they should have the same follow-up and the same activity requirements. But it says itself that it's harder for Nav to follow up that it actually happens. We believe that we need to take care of and ensure that the same activity requirements and penalties that we impose on those who receive benefits in Norway are also imposed on those who receive benefits while living abroad. It's demanding, but we're going to keep working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1882	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a careful assessment of the possibilities in this area. The Council of State said that there is a significant resistance within the EU to restrictions on social security exports, as I pointed out in my speech. The basic principles underpinned by the EU are those that restrict it. It's like, among other things, This is called exportability, i.e. a reduction in benefits for people living in other countries. The Council of State had a sober assessment, unlike the chairman of the committee, which gave the impression that a person would bring about a purchasing power adjustment of child benefit and cash support, as if there was also a large amount of money. It's small in terms of the other arrangements. My question is linked to the ESA body of the EEA Agreement. The government says it will ask ESA whether it is under the EEA Agreement to adjust purchasing power payments of child benefit and cash support, and the question is: If ESA says no, what does the government do?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1893	I'm not going to wonder what we're going to do if ESA says no, right now. Now we first get the Storting to give us time to move on with it. The reason why it has been important for us to get this anchoring is precisely because the proposal is controversial and debated also in Europe. It is clear that it would be difficult for Norway to drive deliberately against a breach of the Treaty, with the consequences it might have. What we're concerned about now is to have clarifications aimed at ESA, but of course we will also pursue the political trail. Because we see, as I said in my post, that after this message was presented, several initiatives have been taken by the German Government, by the Danish Government and also by the Austrian Government, which is moving towards a purchasing power adjustment. Then we also know that initiatives have been taken against this from the countries which are opposed, mainly countries from Eastern Europe, where they do not want to. So, of course, our task will also be to work politically with our colleagues in Europe to get an impact on our vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1902	We are now given an explanation that shows – once again – that the EEA Agreement overrides what may be Storting’s will in this area as well. What is the next question, if you are going to go into purchasing power adjustment, will the Council of State go in to ensure that there is all the export of child benefit and cash support? Should this also apply to exports to Sweden and to Denmark? Should it also apply to exports to Nordics who live abroad in connection with different missions they have there? Will this come up with a number of exceptions to the purchasing power adjustment and thus, once again, we will have a very complicated regulatory framework with a huge red tape, or will it apply to everyone everywhere, so that it will be equal to everyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1909	We have to come back to this, but Denmark and Sweden are part of the EU, so it will be difficult to imagine that we should have different regimes for the different EU countries. The representative Lundtigen presents the EEA Agreement as a problem for the Nordics in this context, or for Norway. It's not that. It is good for the Nordics that they have this export potential, that they have the opportunity to include social security benefits between countries as well. There is a significant number of Norwegians working abroad, and most of these agreements are also included because it is an advantage for Norwegian citizens. In the message we mention, among other things: an ongoing process of agreement with South Korea. There is today a large Norwegian colony in South Korea that does not have the opportunity to bring back its acquired rights in South Korea, and that is why we want to enter into an agreement with that particular country. So essentially, the social security agreements are important for Norwegian citizens too. The bottom, if you could say that, in Lundtigen's terminology, would be that it's both ways. But the EEA Agreement is good for Norway and for the Nordics, and then we want to adjust these benefits in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1918	The central party is that one should have social security agreements with different countries, in the same way that one has trade agreements with different countries. What was my concern here is the EEA Agreement, which once again turns out to be dynamic, and which goes into areas where, at least at the time it was adopted in the Grand Duchy in 1992, the EEA trailer said not to apply, but which now turns out to be true. What is then the core issue is, as the Council of State has now confirmed, that the EEA Agreement is the one that places the main limits on how far we have the opportunity to limit social security exports. It is a reality that is quite different from that of the chairman of the committee, Wiborg, who gives the impression that the Progress Party can take advantage of significant reductions in social security exports, which is not correct, because it is the EEA Agreement that limits the whole – and an EEA agreement that the government is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1923	I am not sure what the question really was, but it is clear that concluded international conventions and agreements, such as the EEA Agreement, Nordic Conventions or bilateral agreements incorporated into Norwegian law, are also of course primacy. This will be the case, but it is good for Norway to have this kind of agreement, because it strengthens Norwegian citizens abroad. The EEA Agreement is also good for Norwegian enterprises. As far as social security exports to Europe are concerned, we are just working to adjust the purchasing power of children and families, and there we are going to affect our European colleagues when we meet them. I myself have had several meetings with Commissioners as well as with the case-rapporteurs for several of the issues that are now in Europe. So we're going to work politically, but of course we're also going to deal with ESA, now that the Storting will hopefully adopt it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1930	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1937	This message is not the biggest message the Storting has received, either in scale or in page numbers, but it is important, probably more important than people think. Payments to the rest of the world have increased considerably in recent years, more than doubled from 2004 to 2016, and nothing indicates that this will stop. It is therefore important to take action, as the government has now done. But it is also important to look at the different performances in different ways, as there are different assumptions on the basis of which they are granted. For example, pensions and disability benefits are: non-restrictive benefits, while cash support and child benefit are examples of the area where it is natural to consider whether export-restrictive measures can be implemented. The message also mentions some measures to limit social security exports, on which it is natural to look further, but when the message came, these were not finished, so this theme will not have a final point today, fortunately. One of the measures that I think is particularly good applies to public benefits to people on the run. So it was a joy last fall when the then Justice Minister, Per-Willy Amundsen said that now it's the end of the party. He also said that now comes the bill that stops the payments of social security and pensions for refugees, and that the public should not finance people who are fleeing from the law's long arm. And in December came this proposition, as among other things. undertakes to stop access to public benefits for persons convicted or suspected of serious crime and who refrain from punishment or prosecution. It is gratifying that there is a unanimous committee in favour of the government's objective of reducing exports, and it is also a unanimous committee which agrees that the government should follow up the measures mentioned in the communication but which, when it arrived, had not been fully investigated. The cancellation notice and the matters that are now coming are really more steps in the right direction. Prosperity has increased significantly in the last ten years, and it is increasing. Fortunately, although the extent has not reached levels of great concern today, it is important and right for the government now to start and complete this job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1950	What I see as the red thread of what you agree on here is the legitimacy of the arrangements. This is a problem that «our» Anniken – in the same department as the Council of State – began to work on under the red-green government, Anniken Huitfeldt, so this has been a theme for a long time. I think some of the most useful thing about the announcement that the government made was to give us a real idea of the extent of what we're talking about. It hovered around a notion that there was a lot of money sent out of the country unnecessarily, and that threatened the sustainability of the welfare state. In particular, the Progress Party loved to sing that melody. But what do we see? Well, the big part is about retirement and disability, which everyone agrees that we're not going to do anything about. There was only a lack of Norwegian pensioners being able to travel to what the Progress Party used to call ‘souther’ countries, escape cold and frost in Norway. So we agree, we don't do anything about that. Then we have education support, where the conclusion is that it's an advantage, it works according to purpose. All, most come back with good experience, although it also includes EEA citizens living in Norway and receiving training support. The unemployment penalty is another example where there are challenges, as the Council of State said, but where the government concludes that we have other tools to deal with it. It is also the case in the EEA Agreement that if you choose to return home and have worked up unemployment benefits in Norway, the home Member State will pay the unemployment allowance if you choose to go there to apply for a job. It boils down to child benefit and cash support, which is now to be considered if purchasing power adjustments are possible. It's not a lot of money, and it's a arrangement we've had in the Nordic region since the 1950s, without anyone lifting a lid. There's also another side to this that we're going to have in the back of our head, and it's: what if the Polish carpenter who has the family at home and gets the child benefit sent to Poland – and gets it adjusted down – chooses to take the children and mother to Norway? Then there is full child welfare plus kindergarten and/or school space. So it has its sides. There's a consensus that we're going to try to do something about it, but the important thing is that this tells us that the scale is to live with, even if it turns out that we're not getting an impact on purchasing power adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1964	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e1980	I have invited you to this interview debate because the degree of organisation has a decisive impact on our working life. The organisation of workers and employers contributes to a very important relationship in our society. It gives us a serious working life, it gives us coordinated paychecks, which also makes it possible to fight unemployment, it gives us reduced differences between people, and it gives us increased value creation. These contexts are pointed out from several sources, such as: in the NordMod work of Fafo, where Jon Erik Dølvik wrote in 2013 that this is significant both for the relationship of power in the labour force and for trust in society in general. But also the Holden III selection in 2013 and the Cappelen selection in 2016 indicate how important it is that authorities support coordinated wage formation, and that this is something that is related to the degree of organisation. In several contexts, the Labour Inspectorate has underlined the relationship between an organised and a serious working life. They have also pointed out how workers in industries that are particularly vulnerable to social dumping and labour-life crime are vulnerable precisely when they are not professionally organised, because they do not have a team, someone to seek advice from or get help from who is easily available to them. The degree of organisation in Norway is higher than in many other countries. Nevertheless, he has fallen a little in the last few years. In the 1990s, 57 pst. by employees, now less than 50 pst. organised. We also know that the differences are quite large in different parts of the world of work. In the public sector, about 80 pst. by the members organised. In the private sector is under 40 pst. organised. Among employers we know that the level of organisation in the private sector is lower than 70 pst. In the public sector, the level of organisation is 100 pst. – of course. We know that young workers enjoy lower levels of organisation. That's also the way it used to be, but in the light of how our working life changes, what industries grow the most, while at the same time large coals that have used to have high levels of organization, get rid of pensions, it's something that can give us long-term problems. Labour immigration is also important. We know, for example, that the level of organisation of immigrants is lower than that of the population. The sum of these changes is something that concerns us in the Working Party. We think it's necessary to do something about it, for several reasons. On the labour side, high levels of organisation are important because it provides security for individuals, but also because it gives negotiating power to employers. On the employers’ side, organisation is important in order to coordinate pay and to reduce the need for companies to compete on pay and working conditions. For the authorities, an organised working life is also important because it makes working life more serious. It strengthens the basis for tripartite cooperation and provides stability for working and social life. It also strengthens the authority's capacity for responsible economic governance by, inter alia, coordinated wage formation between the parties. I would like the authorities not only to be grateful for the high level of organisation, but also to help maintain the high level of organisation. It will be the Labour Party, but it will not, so far, the Right, the Advance Party or the Left. This I say because I asked Prime Minister and Right Party leader Erna Solberg about these things here on the Stortinget on February 7. And then she said, "In addition to what we have today, the government does not consider necessary." Often when we deal with these things, the response is that the organizations themselves need to be organized. They have to make themselves more attractive, they have to recruit more. They must, of course, but since high levels of organisation are a good thing for society as a whole, it is also a common task for us to contribute politically to increasing it. I therefore allow myself to point out some ways to increase the level of organisation that the authorities can contribute to. Respect for the cooperation of the Parties. I'm going to say that the government doesn't show. We already saw this in the 2015 amendments to the labour law – a collective labour page and more on the employer’s side were against it. Nevertheless, the changes were forced through by the government. And here's the point: when government doesn't respect party cooperation, it also weakens the importance of organized labour. It would never fall the Labour Party into acting that way. When a major change in working life is made, they should be implemented in cooperation with the parties, and countermeasures from the parties should be listened to. We saw a new example recently, when the government set up an expert group to fight against unprofessional work. In that case, the social partners could not be involved. The National Association of Construction and the Joint Confederation have even sent a joint letter to the government. In other words, the parties are united in this matter. The government has chosen to distance itself and keep them outside. To remove obstacles to organisation, such as unsafe addition contracts and a widespread use of hired labour. The Labour Party will end the so-called fixed additions without pay between assignments. We want to remove the general need for temporary addition, which is both unnecessary and has recently been documented by the Institute for Social Research. This is about people who would otherwise be permanently added, who are now being temporarily added. This is important. We also have many examples of people who have been hired and who experience that they are punished if they take up critical matters, or if they show commitment as trustees or interest in union work. Punishment is simply that they are not rented again – either for a while or not at all. In other words, this type of add-on form is an obstacle to organisation. Strengthening tools for professional organisations A government can do that. Then one uses e.g. the law to strengthen the legal position of trade unions, e.g. through collective redress. It is a tool that can help prevent social dumping, ensure equal working hours and, not least, ensure that hired workers also comply with the HMS requirements that apply at any time. Trade unions report that once they had this right, they helped resolve conflicts before the courts. So just because they had this right, the employers knew they could end up in court, and that made it easier to find solutions – before one reached this point. To increase knowledge of the organised labour market. Fortunately, here we feel that there is broad political unity. The government party itself believes it is nice that school students learn something about the importance of organized working life. But I have to admit, I can't see that this has happened so much. Is this something that is translated into action, and in that case what has the government done to get to this? At the same time, I would like to suggest that there should be a greater part of the introduction programme and Norwegian education for immigrants, when we know that the level of organisation is lower among immigrants, and when we know that missing masters in languages and little networks make one extremely vulnerable. Then knowledge of how we do things in Norway is important. To increase the deduction of the trade union quota. That's what LO, UNIO, YS and the academics want, and that's a good idea. This shows that we believe that union membership is important, in fact so important that the authorities will stimulate it financially. In other words, deductions or tax cuts are an instrument that this government is not in the forefront of using when it benefits those who already have the most. These are five examples of initiatives that the authorities can take, and there are examples of things that the Labour Party would have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2014	Let me first of all thank the representative Tajik for putting an important question on the agenda. I share the representative's view on the importance of having an organised working life. It is important for participation and cooperation at work, in the development of individual industries and in society as a whole. In line with the Government Platform, the Government will facilitate an organised working life and a well-functioning and effective tripartite cooperation. We want to help further develop the best in the Norwegian model. It is a competitive advantage for Norway that we have an equal and inclusive working life with a high level of organisation. In our working life, there are more organized workers and businesses than in most other European countries, but we have a lower degree of organisation than our Nordic neighbouring countries. It's more or less always been like that. One of the reasons might be that we have a lot of small businesses, where it hasn't been the same tradition to organize. An interesting trend that has not received so much attention is that the level of organisation of private enterprises has increased significantly – from 50 pst. in the 1980s to about 67 pst. today. This contributes to the strengthening of organised labour. Several researchers who have studied the functioning of the Norwegian model emphasise the importance of the organisation of employers. As you know, two more parties are needed to create cooperation. I am concerned that we need a good knowledge base for labour policy. For several years, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has carried out a research project on the evolution of the level of organisation and tariff coverage. Fafo, who is responsible for the project, has re-examined the data base and arrived at a slightly lower estimate than before. According to their figures, the degree of organisation of Norwegian work was 50.4 pst. in 2006. Ten years later it was 49 pst. There's no dramatic change in itself, as LO leader Hans-Christian Gabrielsen recently said to the NRK. The main challenge is that employment is increasing most in private services. This is at the same time the part of working life in which it has been least common to be a member of a work organisation. Not least for the organisations themselves, it is a challenge to reach workers in sectors and businesses with little tradition of organisation. At the same time, it must also be encouraging that a new mapping carried out by the Institute for Research at Work and by Fafo shows that as many as four out of ten unorganised states that they may be interested in organising themselves. Young workers are the ones who show the greatest interest. We know that the young generation is concerned with development opportunities and development of competences. I therefore believe that the trade unions that work systematically and strategically to strengthen the competence of members are also the ones that will succeed in attracting new members. The challenges we face in vulnerable industries and industries need to be addressed in cooperation between the authorities and the social partners. That is why we have invited tripartite cooperation in the clean-up, nightlife and transport sector programmes. Information measures to promote organisation are among the themes on the agenda of these sectoral programmes. In the spring of 2015, an arena was established to strengthen the political dialogue between the Ministry and the parties to the programmes. The main organisations on the labour side have merged on a joint effort to increase the level of organisation. They are now working together on a survey to find out more about the reasons why workers do not organise themselves. They plan information measures and will look at how they can cooperate with the other social partners in order to increase organisation. The NHO, for its part, has called for the strengthening of organised labour as one of its recommended measures to combat labour-life crime. This is a good initiative. I have invited the parties to follow up on the theme of the first meeting of the Employment and Pension Policy Council on 6 March – i.e. Tuesday of the week. The government emphasises dialogue with all the organisations in the world of work. Although there may be disagreement in individual matters, there is a fundamental consensus on the value of cooperation. In the last few years of tripartite cooperation, we have concluded an agreement on inclusive working life, developed a strategy against work crime, we have gathered around a fast track to include refugees in working life and renew the social contract for several higher education places. Tripartite cooperation is, in my opinion, the main contribution of the authorities to promoting an organised working life. In terms of wage formation, it becomes clear that society as a whole has a lot to do with having a well-organised working life. The Team III Committee expressed this in a good way: ‘In order to maintain a coordinated wage formation, it must be maintained by both the institutions in the income policy and the organisations themselves. The high level of organisation can facilitate coordination and provide wage formation that better takes account of high employment and low unemployment. Both the parties and the authorities must support the coordination.’;» We have a good starting point. About 70 pst. by all workers working in establishments covered by collective bargaining agreements. In addition, there are likely to be additional activities which voluntarily follow up the pay and working conditions negotiated by the parties or which follow them because they are required in public acquisitions. The emergence of organisations on both the employer and employee sides is a foundation for ensuring a serious working life. We have a common interest in fighting those who will undermine it. The challenges facing social organisations are to make visible the importance of membership for individuals and society. It is about making itself relevant and meeting today’s challenges with new forms of work and relevant offers. Authorities shall contribute, not least in terms of cooperation with organisations, to address key societal challenges. I look forward to further dialogue on these important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2055	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I note that the Council of State began by saying that the government of the Jeløia Platform would stress that one would facilitate tripartite cooperation and organised working life. But it was hard to identify in this post exactly what the government intended to do. Governments gave some simple examples. They pointed out that they want a good knowledge base, that they want mapping. That's what I think is quite fine – it's about getting knowledge on the table. I feel that all the parties are a few about it, and in a sense, it should just be a lack of an increase in the knowledge base here. Another thing I notice was industry programmes in some sectors. I also thought it was fine, but it should be very much lacking. There are some sectors that are particularly exposed to social dumping and labour crime, and many of us have been drivers of creating such industry programmes. It was also noted that the Employment Policy Council on 6 March will discuss these matters. It's also nice, but it should just be missing. And that's it -- that's what we got from actions and initiatives. So I would like to ask you correctly: is it correctly understood that the Council of State does not have any plans to implement new measures to increase the level of organisation? In addition to these things, there were mostly only given descriptions of what the organisations themselves can do, and what their challenges are. I also notice that the Council of State did not take up the criticism that has come from the Joint Union and the National Association of Construction Industries, that they have not been involved in an important part of the work against social dumping. I'd like to hear from the Council of State how she intends to deal with that criticism from these two important actors. The last thing I want to say is that over the last eight years, we've seen the employment fall by 4 percentage points. The small growth we have seen in recent employment is largely isolated for construction and labour renting. At the same time, we know that these are the industries where we have the biggest problem with social dumping and crime at work. It's also the industries where we have the lowest level of organization. We then know that there is something that can affect both individuals and families and our working life, but in the long term this is also a development that will be able to affect the productivity growth of this country – that is, our ability to produce values that can finance well-being. Some of the things we need now to get right are firm, high-productive settings and safe and competent employees, but not least we need an increase in the level of organisation of the entire working life, to ensure that what we hope will be future growth, also comes in sectors that are safe for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2072	I have to admit that I listened carefully when the representative Tajik kept his main post and made several proposals for measures that could increase the level of organisation. In reality, the proposal was not particularly provocative, nor is it that because you don't do what the parties will at all times, you don't respect the cooperation of the parties. It can't be like that – of course we respect party cooperation, but it's not given that the parties always get the sense of what you want, the way you want it. To what Tajik also addressed in his second post, namely the criticism from the Joint Association of the Expert Committee: it is not the case that the Joint Confederation and the BNL should not be heard in that sample. They should be involved to the greatest extent, but they should be involved in a slightly different way than the parties themselves would wish. They shall participate in a reference group, and of course they shall also be heard along the way. We have many processes going on with the parties in most sectors. They participate in various councils and selections, programmes and others to help influence policies in areas that are important to them, for their members and for their industries. I would think that one of the most important things for an organisation is getting through enough that it is also relevant to its members – that the members see that enrolling in this union means that one will have real influence over areas that are important to one’s own and one’s colleagues. In this respect, the Government contributes most to the involvement of organisations in several areas of major importance to its members. But again, I think it would be totally wrong to say that one organisation should be able to veto the policy of a government. We also know that when you talk about the parties, it doesn't always mean that the parties agree completely; there may be conflicting interests between them. Then it is important that governments also try to balance the different considerations. One of the measures outlined by Tajik was the lease-in. The government sent out several suggestions on how to limit it already last year. Here we come back to Stortinget in a few weeks, so I think that's what we're doing. It's possible to include more of this in your curriculum. Then we are in a different responsibility than mine, for which the Minister of Knowledge must answer. But we know that to get something into the curriculum, there's also something going on. Several, even members of the organisations themselves, have also pointed out that they believe – and I believe that this is a cross of thought that the organisations must take over – that several of the organisations are perceived as being of party politics. It must be a challenge for the members themselves to say that – at least it must be a clear signal to the organisations, whether they should perhaps be more neutral than the members themselves perceive them as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2089	Thanks to the interpellant for once again challenging the Minister of Labour on what the Right, the Progress Party and the Left intend to do for an organized working life. So far, this has not been particularly high on the government's agenda, unfortunately. Rather, it is that every time the Workers' Party has raised this question, it is the thumb down. The government won't get involved. The interpellant referred to the Prime Minister's reply to her a month ago: the Prime Minister could not see the point of government involvement. Both the Prime Minister and other representatives of the Right have repeatedly said that the organisations themselves are responsible for making themselves attractive. Yesterday, in the Questionnaire, the Minister of Finance asked about the same thing. She answered very little concretely – in the same street as the Prime Minister – and concluded by saying: ‘but it is also about ensuring that those who choose not to be organised for various reasons also have good, orderly conditions at their place of work’. It is in line with the principle programme of the Advance Party that it says: «A free labour market does not function well as long as similar monopolies enter into agreements centrally for workers and employers. [[...]] We are in favour of full freedom of organisation, where the right to be organised should be as strong as the right to be unorganised." The progress party has been well-counted in the Jeløya Declaration, for there we can read: ‘Many workers want more flexibility to make it easier to combine work and private life. The government will therefore continue its work of modernising and adapting the labour environment law to the labour market desired by both workers and employers. The Government recognises that many workers choose to be unorganised.’ So then the cats are really out of the bag – as it was when the Stortinget dealt with the Workers' Party's proposal for Action Plan 5 against social dumping and labour-life crime less than a year ago. Then a proposal from us was that the government, in cooperation with the social partners, should find measures to increase the degree of organisation of the Norwegian labour force, including stepping up the trade union deduction to the double, downgraded by the bulk of the population. The Minister of Labour is constantly reiterating the government's commitment to combating the crime of working life. Now, there is a truth to modification, because if you are concerned about combating something, you should also be concerned about using the tools you have. But both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left unfortunately have a bad story in this way, both in government and in opposition. Under the red-green government, we promoted three action plans against social dumping and crime at work – Action Plan 1 in May 2006, Action Plan 2 in October 2008, Action Plan 3 in May 2013. Today's government parties voted against all of them. They voted against the right of access for trustees, they voted against the duty of passport and information. They voted against the introduction of Norwegian conditions in municipal tenders in line with ILO Convention 94, they voted against tightening employment rates between enterprises, they voted against a seven-point strategy to strengthen workers' rights internationally, they voted against joint responsibility, against regional protection officers, and they voted against having the first major report of a serious working life in this Chamber, against collective legal proceedings, which they abolished as soon as they came into government. During the Solberg government, the majority of the population voted against more than 50 proposals for action by the Workers' Party against social dumping and the crime of working life in our Action Plans Nos 4 and 5, in addition to voting against our proposals for specific measures in the transport industry, both on the ground and in the air. It is not just the Working Party that is dissatisfied. That was also the Riksrevision. Now, according to the government, things are going better, but it doesn't. We can strengthen supervision and control authorities as much as we want. They'll never be able to reach everything. However, regional protection officers, who have voted against the right parties, can do so, especially when they can play on teams with tens of thousands of schooled trustees with right of access and the possibility of promoting collective action against unprofessional and criminal employers. Fafo has shown that measures against social dumping work where workers are organised. But it doesn't have the ability to see, or – perhaps worse – will not see, because of ideological skyscrapers. Workers are the first to lose out on it — at last, the well-being of all is being undermined.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2130	A well-organised working life is important for both employees and employers. A tidy working life with established rights and working conditions should in itself be attractive to all parties. That is why I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this debate in order to look at reasons for a weakly declining level of organisation in recent years. According to the YS Labour Barometer, more than one of three unorganised trade unions feel that their interests are not cared for — one of three. In the same labour force survey, a total of 39 psts respond. the trade unions are too closely connected to political parties. The last should be a cross of thought for the interpellant; the first should be a cross of thought for the organisations. At the same time, there is much to suggest that Norwegian working life is mainly safe, tidy and decent. An employee of Steam Kaffebar at Egertorget answered when VG asked in January this year: ‘I would like to be organised, but it is not so natural in a private life and relatively small chain, where we feel that we are being treated well.’ She told me that the private chain had paid according to tariffs and industry's best working hours. The so-called free passengers may be the real children of tripartite cooperation – we've got the safe working life we wanted, where most people feel safe. Most Norwegian business owners and employers are decent and want decent jobs, if not for their employees, even if I believe that this is the case, so at least for the bottom line. Satisfied employees are more productive and loyal, providing better performance. A decent and tidy working life must and must be paid for by all parties. Therefore, it is important that we follow up politically with up-to-date laws and regulations and work-life crime and unprofessional businesses that exploit people and undermine serious actors. I believe this government does. But when one of three doesn't feel that the trade unions care for their interests, it's a political task to lower the threshold for them, or to resolve the strong party bond as nearly 40 pst. of the unorganized perceptions as a problem? We have trade unions and employers' organisations that experience membership growth. Unio has had a steady growth in recent years, and the NHO Association of Abelia says that more than 60 entrepreneurs joined them in just a few months. These entrepreneurs represent the jobs of the future, but are trade unions talking to the workers of the future? Workers in technology-oriented knowledge companies may not feel that organisations that go to general strike against moderate changes in the Working Environment Act are appealing to them, including those in the lawn in front of the Storting and showing their finger to a government council they disagree with. Nevertheless, I believe that the social partners have a high potential in modern working life. There may be laws and regulations that stand in the way of creating new jobs, where it pays to be more together to change them. There may be laws and regulations that make it difficult to combine family and working life through tour schemes such as: are not adapted to have the children every other weekend. There are many reasons to be organized, including: because the State, which is one of the social partners, is not always entitled. Last year, LO-Aktuelt wrote about 25 proposals to increase the degree of organisation. One of them was to professionalise the recruitment work, that is, to ask the question, ‘Do you want to join our trade union?’ When the trade unions don’t even ask if people will join, I think it’s a little special to ask for policy tools to get it done. In the case of LO, the NRK wrote that a little lower degree of organisation barely harvested a shoulder pull from LO leader Hans-Christian Gabrielsen. He pointed out that in the 1970s it was 51,5 pst. which was organized, today it is 49.1 pst. As he said, "There is no dramatic and great decline we are talking about." But when that is said, it is serious when a small minority, 2 pst., says that they do not dare to trade themselves out of fear of negative reactions from the employer. Freedom of organisation means freedom not to organise as well as freedom to organise, and both must be respected. But not to get organized because you're afraid of negative reactions is a signal that something is wrong. We should remember, and be grateful that it is often the trade unions and their members who act as warners of unprofessional actors and unfair employment. This is also why the interaction between employers’ organisations and employees’ organisations is so important. They have a mutual interest in the discovery and follow-up of actors who undermine a serious and decent working life. I believe that the government takes the social partners seriously, which is visible both in the dialogue with the parties and in matters such as combating the crime of working life. That a whole seven centres have been set up to combat work-life crime for less than five years, I believe this shows. That we do not agree on all matters, such as collective redress, is about respect for those who do not want to be abused in conflicts they do not necessarily agree with. It should also be a crossroads of thought for trade unions that want more members.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2163	I think it's important to raise your eyes a little bit and take over the realities. It is that Norwegian working life mainly works well. There is a good relationship between employers and employees in all, most jobs, both in workplaces where people choose to be organised and in workplaces where people choose not to be organized. Both the Progress Party and I agree that it is good that Norway has a high level of organisation, and I believe that for most people it makes sense to be organised. But then people choose different – some also have good reasons not to be organized, and that's something we have to respect. The responsibility for possibly increasing the degree of organisation must, of course, lie with the parties themselves, with those organisations that want to have even more members. The representative Lise Christoffersen had an excellent speech here from both the Progress Party program and the Jeløya platform. I think she's taking up important moments there, and I'd like to think she's going to continue her reading. But since she first read a little from the show of the Progress Party, I also thought to read what the then, red-green government came into the Report. St. 29 from 26 August 2011. On page 156 of this big message from the red-green government, it says: ‘A trust-based and efficient, high-legitimate cooperation of the Parties has led to the establishment of organisations. Similarly, it is an important aspect of our democracy that employees and employers should be free to set up and operate organisations, and be free to join the organisation they want, or not to organise. The Governing Boards are responsible for facilitating a good working life for all employees and employers — both organised and unorganised.’ I think this is a good wording from the red-green government, because as politicians, we actually have a responsibility to take care of all workers in Norway, regardless of whether you choose to be organized or not. We're going to make the framework that makes it safe to go to work in Norway, that there should be decent pay and employment relationships, regardless of whether you're organized or not. Then I think it's a little special – especially from the history of the Workers' Party, which originally wanted to stand up for the workers at the bottom of the table – that it has changed to focusing only on the part of the population that is organised. I think there are a lot of reasons why the degree of organization is falling. The Workers' Party is constantly taking up the union deduction, that it is the ultimate. The Labour Party also pointed it out in the election campaign and received criticism from NRK Detective, who submitted the claim – for example. Professor Kristine Nergaard in Fafo said that there is no research, as the Workers' Party claims, that there is a link between the degree of organisation and the trade union deduction. I think there are several grips several of the trade unions themselves can do to increase the number of members. One thing is, like Nordby Lunde's representative, to look at the successful organizations, but I think it's also about the feedback you get. Take, for example: The members of the LO – that was 38,4 p.m. by the LO members who voted in the Labour Party, the remaining votes in other parties. Nevertheless, the Labour Party received NOK 26 815 452 in party support from employee organisations in the 2017 election year. Many people experience that the Workers' Party is managed by the LO, and that the LO has a goal to help the Workers' Party more than to help the employee. I think that's where you should pay a lot of attention if you want a higher degree of organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2181	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Tajik, for an extremely important interpellation. There is a dramatic decrease in the level of private business organisations on the employee side. Since 1994, there has been a steady downward trend, and this is extremely negative for serious work. The national audit — all — points it out, and what is happening in practice is stronger than what has so far emerged in the statistics. I would like to stress that this gives a balance of power to the disadvantage of employees. We must never forget that the employer has the right to control. If the employer does not then have a decent, strong and professional counterpart, we will have an imbalance to the employee's disadvantage. There is an insecurity that spreads to more and more professional groups, and we have a huge job that people chose to do in correcting market forces, correcting the content of private ownership, so that we get balanced power relationships. The central party will increase respect for the cooperation of the parties. The government is now setting up expert committees without people from work and business. Follow-up to ‘Simple to be serious’ measures in the construction industry is a very good example. The opposition here in Stortinget must now gather and require professionals with shoes on. It is quite unheard of if this does not happen, because both the employer and the employee know best how this happens, and the instruments they use are unprofessional. It's in every way unwise, what the government is now doing. A well-organised work life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. I regret to see that no one from the Christian People's Party has joined this debate. I would appeal to the Christian People's Party to think through how a well-organized working life is connected with and is the prerequisite for a safe family life. People have to know in good time when they're free from work. A person must be safe from work and thus secure from salary. There is a need for more permanent employment. We have to define fixed-term employment. We must be allowed to be illegal to have such employment as the NHO Service and Handels operate, namely permanent employment without pay between jobs. We must reduce temporary employment. We must restrict the legal use of crew companies. The most important role of the size in terms of organisation is to ensure full employment, to ensure the balance between labour supply and demand, so that those of us who do not have the full capacity to work also have the opportunity to participate in the labour market. It is impossible to realise with free labour immigration from the EEA territory. The EEA undermines both full employment and Norwegian pay and working conditions. The centre party is systematically working to get away from free labour, to regulated labour immigration, where permanent work is required on Norwegian pay and work conditions and housing before work permits are granted. The centre party is positive in making trade-union organisation cheaper for people by increasing the amount of the trade-union quota that reduces income. I would like to support what the red-green government said, and as the representative Wiborg had to say, that it must be up to the individual, be free, be organized or not, but I would strongly stress that we as elected representatives must facilitate the employees to see an advantage of organizing themselves. It shall be profitable by organizing itself. Those who organize should get out better. That's one of the central points of the question we're facing. It is important that we have stronger trade unions on the part of employees, on the part of employers and among the seafarers, and it is important that professional organisations are effective and professionally strong. I would like to stress that we should be party-politically independent when trade unions and political parties agree. When agreed, trade unions must support the parties that are in favour of the same position. Former head of the Trade Union, Jan Davidsen, has exemplified this in practice, and that is something many have much to learn from. I would like to end by saying that everyone will benefit from a higher degree of organisation. The centre party is working for more people to be organised. To increase the organisation in the private sector by 10 pst. is not an unrealistic measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2200	I want to start by thanking Mr Tajik for having a very important debate. I am very much in agreement with the proposals for measures called Tajik. We in SV see with great concern that the degree of organisation in Norway falls. In particular, this new industry, such as the services sector and the IT industry, applies, for example, but we also see a brutalization against young workers who are well organised, among other things. in the case of welfare professionals in the protection of children. I want to site an I spoke to a couple of days ago. She works in private child protection. I asked her if she was organized, and she said, "Yes, but it's secret, because I see how the boss treats and talks to those who are an open member of the club." One of the most obvious trends we see is that recruitment agencies and those with other types of temporary contracts are not organised. This has now been so clear that trade unions say that permanent membership is a commitment to organise themselves in today's labour market. It's not weird. When a person only receives temporary contracts and is the rewarder's benevolence to the boss, make sure everything is done to get further work and income. It's probably a shame, because it's like those people who are in an insecure position, who especially need a club in their backs. This is why we go into SV to reintroduce collective redress and to establish proper collective bargaining agreements for the purpose of accessing tenants. This is something that will contribute to increasing the level of organisation. Inhabitants of labour represent a significant part of what is covered as labour crime. The government says clearly in the platform that an organised working life is a competitive advantage for Norway. Then it's strange that the government can recognise those who are not in a trade union. Social organisation is one of the best tools to overcome the crime of working life, but also to bring about a society of small differences. It is time to take political action now to help increase the level of organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2216	In the platform from Jelaua, the government went to the absurd step of writing in that they recognize those who choose not to be professionally organized. This happens at the same time as the degree of organisation has fallen below 50 pst. We'll have to commend the civilians for an unusually bad timing with their platform. The signal that the government is sending out with this is, of course, very alarming. We in Red are pleased that we got a majority in order for the government to promote a case to the Stortinget with proposals that can help increase the level of organisation. Now the government has to deliver on it and not just point to the trade movement. The front-line model is that the trade-union movement coordinates pay requirements for companies to be competitive. But now we see that the owners run away with an increasingly large proportion of the cake – according to fresh figures that LO presented this week. Why should the trade movement continue to hold back when the owners take an increasingly large part of the value creation and the government does not facilitate increased organisation? In the trade in goods, we see that there is a low level of organisation. An example of that is Rema 1000. Odd Reitan has become one of the richest in Norway at the Rema shops, while the employees are among Norway’s worst paid. Employees have done their utmost to create the values Ritan lives on, but they do not get their legitimate share of the values. Reitan is not allowed to attend wage negotiations, among others. because most of the Rema shops are not owned directly by him. This franchise model is a typical example of an organisation of working life that does not facilitate corporate democracy, participation or employee involvement, which is the very objective of professional organisation. After the strike in the hotel and restaurant industries, employees finally received local negotiating rights. It was an important victory. In the local negotiations, however, the employees received NOK 0 in addition. The owners of these hotel chains are among Norway's richest: Olav Thon, Petter Stordalen and Christian Ringnes. What will the government do to ensure that real employers and owners meet at the negotiating table when the trade union movement organises and negotiates? The trade union movement itself says that freelance workers and temporary workers are the main obstacle to increased organisation. This is a group of workers that the government itself has put in a vulnerable and dependent position that dares to organize. What does the government do to reduce the proportion of temporary employees and the proportion of temporary employees? LO's Vice President, Peggy Hessen Følsvik, wrote something wise in the newspaper before Christmas. She wrote: ‘The trade union movement, together with employers’ organisations, plays a crucial role in the formulation of laws and regulations governing the conditions of work and society. The fact that social partners are such an integral part of the social fabric and are involved in taking on such a high level of social responsibility has contributed to equality, adaptability and productivity. It is crucial for the future of the Nordic model that our politicians defend and develop precisely this." Does the government really believe that the trade movement plays a positive role in increasing productivity in Norway? If yes, what will the government do to increase the level of organisation and ensure that the trade movement is a strong and important social actor in Norway in the future? They have not chosen to increase the trade union deduction, although prices elsewhere in society are increasing. The first thing they did when they took over was to throw away an important tool for the trade union movement, the collective court of law. And the government parties went against all the proposals for regulation and ban of the manning industry within, among other things. construction, in the Oslofjord area. These are proposals that can clean up working life and give more organized workers, and that's what the government is against. It's a clear signal to the country's organized workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2240	I would also like to thank the interpellant for travelling a very important matter. The Nordic – or Norwegian – working life model is characterised by a well-organised working life, something we are proud of on both the right and the left of Norwegian policies. We have a long and good tradition and experience of a strong trade union movement in close cooperation with a centralised employer organisation, as well as a tradition of political consensus between the major political parties. It's important. It is social responsibility, whether the mutual recognition of rights and obligations by the parties – obligations that apply not only to the law and the contract work, but also to what we think is best for our country. It is about value creation, and it is also about work against social dumping and crime at work. Consensus and compromises between the parties, between labour and capital, are based on the trust of the parties in both the emphasis on equality and the practice of the law and the contract work. What irritates me a little bit is that the left-hand side is constantly trying to imagine people that the Right really wants the trade unions to live. This rhetoric I've met a lot in debates. It's misleading, and I'm tired of being attached to opinions and attitudes I don't actually have, and neither does the party. We are positive towards trade unions, and we agree with the Labour Party here. We also want higher and increasing organisation of work. I was myself a trade union organisation for more than 30 years before I was elected to Stortinget, and I have had a trust position and been active in my trade union. In the right, it is important to focus on the Norwegian work model and build on what we have built up. Tripartite cooperation is important. Interpellant is concerned about the decline in the level of organisation of work. There are several of us. She asks what the government will do to reverse this trend. I believe that the Labour Party should perhaps go a little by itself, maybe they're sitting on some of the solution. They should examine and ask why workers do not want to organise themselves in trade unions under the LO. I have a concrete example to show. Just before the summer of last year, I was invited to make an article at the Municipal Conference of the Joint Organisation, which was held at the Gardermoen. I then sat on the Labour and Social Committee. When I got there, I was met with giant posters that hung all the way, everywhere, with the title «New Government – New Direction» and a lot of undisputed political statements about the government's employment policy. I have to say I wondered if I had come wrong, if I had been invited to the Labour Party election-kick-off. I had never thought that there was such a strong connection between the unions in the LO and the Workers' Party. I knew it was tight, but that it was so integrated, it was a surprise to me. I couldn't let not comment on it in my post, and I actually got more feedback from the trustees who thought it was good that I told them about it, because they even thought it was problematic. They said right away that the close link between the Workers' Party and the LO was a hindrance to recruiting workers with a different political stance, and I understand that in fact. I have to say for myself that if the nurses' union, of which I have been a member, had been linked up to a political party in this way, I would never have been a member there. Finally, I would like to say that I do not think it is about increasing the trade union deduction in order to achieve a higher degree of organisation, which many have been involved here. There was no significant increase when the red-green government did so when they sat with the power. There are probably several other factors involved. One of the most important I think is actually the Workers' Party with the key to itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2253	In February of this year, I attended the annual conference of the NHO in Northern Ireland. The theme was ‘Value of Work’ and one of the lectures was ‘Participation — Success Model for Enterprise and Social Development in Norway’. There is no doubt that most of us want an equal and inclusive working life with a high level of organisation. But it can be a little bit difficult to sit on a three-legged crack if one leg is much shorter than the other. So just looking at the employees and their level of organisation I think a little wrong. You have to look at the whole thing of it. In Report. St. 29 for 2010–2011, the Red-Green Government wrote that it is an important aspect of democracy that both workers and employers are free to set up and operate organisations. You have to be free to choose the organisation you want, and you have to be free to choose not to organise. Today's government is acting in full harmony with what the red-greens themselves struck when they ruled. In this report, they further stated that the State is responsible for facilitating a good working life for all workers and employers, both organised and unorganised. The Government has determined in the Government Platform that it will facilitate an organised working life and that it will ensure that all workers are granted their fundamental rights, including freedom of organisation. If you choose to organize, it has to be voluntary and also because you feel that it has a value. Maybe you'd better turn the interpellant's problem around? Did the ball throw back a little bit? What can organisations do to make more people want to organise? How should organisations become more attractive? The tax deduction for the union quota has been stable in recent years, while the quota itself has increased. Maybe that's where the problem lies, that many people feel that they don't get any things or get little left for what it actually costs? No one likes to throw the money out of the window, we're a sober people here in the country. At the end of the day: You may well have some understanding of the Workers' Party's concerns about the level of organisation of the employees and that the organisations are getting a little less money into the quota. It's just a year to the next election.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2272	I have to start by commenting on some of the contributions of the representatives of Mathisen and Nordby Lunde. Mathisen said that the opposition Party is holding the key to the challenges we are addressing today. It's something special, but I want to remind you that the organizations that Mathisen believes are too closely linked to political parties are democratic organisations whose congresses choose politics and possible support for parties. Mathisen said that's why people don't become members of these organizations. Then I want to stress that the LO is increasing in membership, the LO's associations are increasing in total membership. That's not what's the challenge or the issue we're discussing here today. It is the level of organisation — especially in sectors exposed to social dumping and labour crime. The same applies to the representative Nordby Lunde, who listed NHO associations and other organisations that have more members. I repeat, the number of members of LO is increasing. The problem and challenge we are discussing here today is that, especially in vulnerable sectors, the level of organisation is falling. And to take an example: Nordby Lunde also claims that the trade unions do not ask if people will join. My trade union, trade and office, region west, has increased its membership mass by over 500 people over a year and a half because they go out and ask. This is a good example of an industry – the service sector and the commercial sector – that needs to increase the level of organisation, which other representatives have also been involved in. The country has recently received a new Minister of Industry, and I sat there thinking about what I would start with if I had been appointed Minister of Industry. I would actually start by introducing measures to increase the level of organisation of both companies and, in particular, of employees in the private sector. The ways in which you can do this are by strengthening tripartite cooperation, having economic incentives and increasing knowledge of organised labour. And why is this so important? It is not at all, as someone implies in their posts here today, to soften the trade movement. It's not just an ideological point of view, even though one is stronger in common. It is a socio-economic issue at the highest level, and I will mention four reasons why an organised working life is a socio-economic issue. Firstly, labour and social dumping are particularly prevalent in sectors of the private sector with low and declining levels of organisation. What happens in those industries? Well, productivity is falling, growth and value creation are falling. Secondly, coordinated wage formation is only possible in high-level work. This makes us in Norway due to these economic cycles. We have responsible social partners, which means that not many jobs or businesses end up in downtime. Thirdly, it strengthens local business – not just mailbox companies that hire workers. They do not pay travel, diet and lodging, and they pay their professionals as auxiliary workers. And that brings me to point four: the high level of organisation ensures that we have Norwegian skilled workers in the future as well. The Council of State said that it is a competitive advantage that we have an inclusive working life with a high level of organisation. It's not exactly quoted, but the essence was at least that it's a competitive advantage. It is precisely our point that there is a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry that we have a high level of organisation, but there is no intervention, there are no new measures, from today's government. On the contrary – one acknowledges the unorganised working life. And not only are the government parties against concrete proposals on higher levels of organisation, they are also against concrete proposals against social dumping. We saw that in today's position from the Labour and Social Committee. They are, therefore, also against concrete measures of organisational efficiency, which are the most important measure in the long-term struggle for a serious and productive working life. Then we have to increase the degree of organisation in the private sector by at least 10 p.m., which the representative Lundtigen was in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2295	Norwegian workers are fine. Nine out of ten are happy at work. The Norwegian model has served us well. The government gets a lot of criticism of the use of the word ‘recognising’ in the government platform, and the Workers’ Party and others are constantly attacking the government for recognising that some people do not choose to be members of a trade union. But all the time we have freedom of organisation in Norway, the question of membership in a trade union is the choice of the individual and not the choice of the politicians. Report. St. 29 for 2010-2011 has been mentioned, but it may be worth reading the one that came in new Norwegian as well, the one that came from the red-green in 2011: ‘A trust-based and efficient, high-legitimate cooperation of the Parties has led to the establishment of organisations. Similarly, it is an important aspect of our democracy that employees and employers should be free to set up and operate organisations, and be free to join the organisation they want, or not to organise. The Governing Boards are responsible for facilitating a good working life for all employees and employers — both organised and unorganised.’ There is still freedom of organisation in Norway, although there has been a change of government. We all see the strength of the Norwegian model and what it has given us. But what is the status of the degree of organisation in Norway? During the period 2006–2016, the degree of organisation has dropped from 50,5 pst. to 49 pst. Numbers show that the LO and the YS lose shares, while the Academics and the UN strengthen their positions. There are also large differences in the public and private sectors. The Nordic region has the highest level of organisation, and apart from the Nordic countries, only Belgium has a 50 pst degree of organisation. or more. Finland, Sweden, Denmark and Belgium have a scheme in which the unemployment benefit is or has been linked to membership of a trade union a-casse paying unemployment benefits. The system of a-boxes is usually the most important explanation of the particularly high level of organisation in our Nordic neighbouring countries. I am pleased that the economic safety net of unemployment in Norway is a universal well-being of all workers, regardless of professional organisation. There are many reasons why the level of organisation is falling in Norway. Two of the reasons, according to Kristine Nergaard in Fafo, are changes in farm size and structural changes, meaning that there will be fewer industrial jobs and more service jobs. Nergaard doesn't think you need to worry about the big workplaces with tradition of professional organisation. She is rather afraid of a completely different consequence – that there can be A and B teams in the workplace, where large, well-organised jobs and the public sector have collective agreements, with the benefits that come with them, while other, more fragmented industries will not be able to offer the same rights. One can get many jobs in the service sector where the only one has rights is what is in the law. Much of the right of participation exists in collective bargaining agreements. It's a bigger concern than seeing a certain decline in the overall level of organisation. Not being able to lift those who have the worst conditions can be a challenge for a model that we often like to say is based on equality and cohesion. Structural changes in the labour market require organisations to invest more resources in recruiting new members. In particular, they should have a stronger presence in those parts of their working life where they are poor today. You can't just say that the trade unions and trustees in the workplace are doing a worse job today than before. Probably they don't. The level of organisation does not necessarily decrease because they are poor where they are present, but because there are too many places they are not. The Jeløya platform says that the government will further develop the Norwegian model and believes it is a competitive advantage for Norway to have an equal and inclusive working life with a high level of organisation. There is still freedom of organisation in Norway, but we all see the strength of the Norwegian model and what it has given us. A new report from Fafo shows that four out of ten unorganised people declare that they are interested in trade unionisation, and the younger ones express a greater interest in professional organisation. Current strategies to increase the level of organisation may be to target efforts against the unorganised in the workplace where trade unions are already involved, but also to focus on young people, where the potential and interest is greatest. Then you can wonder if you have asked the question: Hey, do you want to join our trade union? It would be a good start and a prerequisite for organizing. There's one thing I've missed in the debate on the degree of organization as long as I've been at Stortinget. It is that the Workers' Party responds to the question of party political dependence, which has been repeated several times – there are no good answers to it. I think that will also help to strengthen the level of organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2328	I would first like to thank the representative, Tajik, for addressing an important issue. The Norwegian model is a working life with a focus on cooperation and participation. We have clear rules of play – tripartite cooperation works. I would like to stress that it is wise for both employers and employees to be organised in organisations that contribute to the maintenance and strengthening of their own interests in the workplace. But it's voluntary to be organized, and with that there's also a right not to be organized. In any case, the Governing Boards have a responsibility to facilitate a good working life for all employees and employers, both the organised and the unorganised. We have a good working life in Norway, where the vast majority of people enjoy work. One of the main challenges today is the fact that too many people are out of work. It's a challenge we have to take seriously. This means that we need to continue our work on transforming the Norwegian economy and supporting an inclusive and safe society with small differences. We're not just going to create more jobs, we're going to make it easier for more people to get to work. The objective must be a safe and flexible working life, with low unemployment and high employment. The goal must be to close away the unprofessional actors and to bring down the crime of working life. We know that there is a difference between the degree of organisation in the public and private sectors. In the private sector, the degree of organisation can be largely linked to the size of the business. According to numbers from Fafo, the degree is 22 pst. in small enterprises and 61 pst. in the largest. In Norway, very many enterprises are just small and medium-sized enterprises. They contribute to the creation of value and jobs in local communities throughout the country. These are companies where corporate owners and managers work closely with their employees. They often have children in the same schools, and they're in the same associations after work. Sometimes you can ask yourself if the rhetoric that comes from the organisations is correct. Business and working life are changing – we see a great increase in new occupations and industries, perhaps especially in the services sector in the SME segment. Employers’ organisations are now adapting their services more to reach SMEs and new industries, and it is natural that employee organisations do the same. The academics and UNIO, perhaps more focused on ‘new’ professions and the recruitment of members while in the educational cycle, experience growth in the number of members, including in the relative proportion of organised people. We are all served with an organized working life, and Norwegian legislation guarantees us both the right and the freedom to be organized. This means that membership has to be felt as relevant for individuals, in terms of both practical benefits, professional values and professional identity, because according to Fafo, four out of ten unorganised interests are actually interested in organizing themselves. Moreover, the proportion is highest among the youngest. There is evidence that it should be possible for trade unions to increase the gap by actively recruiting members, because there are many who have never been asked if they will become members. That is why I am pleased that the representative Knutsen tells me that the union he is affiliated to has actually increased the proportion just by asking. Because in fact, the trade unions themselves have to take responsibility for doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2343	First, thank you to the interpellant, who has a very important debate, which should involve more than those who are on the Labour and Social Committee. I'm on the Health and Care Committee and I want an article outside of our experience and what we're working on. We've had the longest hospital strike in history. There have been major conflicts between employers and employee organisations, and more than ever the importance of being organized has been shown. There is reason to be alarmed when the degree of organisation generally falls as low as he has now. I want to show you what others have said that we have a good Norwegian cooperation model. The tripartite model in Norway is important. My question is whether we actually have tripartite cooperation, or whether it's just in theory. The structure is in place, but how does it actually work in practice? Is it carved? For if we read the barometer of co-destination, which was developed by the University of Oslo and Akershus and came in 2009, 2016 and 2017, it is quite serious figures that emerged when a Norwegian employee asked. Tala shows that 45 pst. Norwegian workers believe that the labour force in Norway is developing in a more authoritarian direction. 45 pst. – So more than four out of ten think it's going in the wrong direction. Only 10 pst. social life evolves in a more democratic direction, and the rest either means nothing or does not respond. This feels Norwegian workers, it's their experience, and it should worry us. It is clear that the level of organisation should be raised when one sees what one meets in reality. This survey showed, both in 2016 and 2017, that when a comparison is made between the private, municipal and state sectors, the state sector has the highest level of feedback on the threat of participation. In fact, the private sector is better. Private sector workers experience more co-destination, and private people with foreign owners experience more co-destination than those working in the state sector in Norway. It should have led to greater political attention than it has now. In the State sector, the investigations indicate that it is in public limited liability companies and in health professionals that it is at least co-destination. Then it may not be so strange that we got such a long-term hospital strike as we got in 2016, but here we have an extra responsibility when the state is involved in driving Norwegian working life in a more authoritarian direction – contrary to what is said. We have to ask ourselves whether tripartite cooperation is more on paper than in practice. Thanks to the interpellant. The fact that we're talking about and taking action to get more people organized is very important, perhaps more important than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2356	Thank you for the debate. He has been clarifying. I keep commenting on some of the claims from the debate. The Council of State has made it its trade mark to give characteristics of the opposition its proposals, without making its own proposals. Now we hear that our suggestions are not that exciting. No, respect for party cooperation may not be very exciting, but it has an effect. Giving the demeaning characteristics of the opposition's proposals may seem tough, but we have at least proposals. Where are the proposals from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left? They're totally absent. The representative Nordby Lunde has an undertone of hurtful morals over the trade unions. They should change their behavior. They should make themselves more attractive. They should ask people to get organized. But what in all days should Right itself do? Or the Progress Party? Or Left? What should the government do? See it -- they don't say anything about it. The representative Wiborg says that the responsibility for increasing the degree of organisation must lie with the organisations themselves – that is the next important point – because it is about increasing the number of members. No, increasing the level of organisation is primarily a good thing for society. It's a good thing for everyone. It increases trust in society. It reduces the differences in society. The fact that the Progress Party and the Right consider this primarily as a member's care means that all of these honors that we get to hear, about the importance of organized working life, sound extra hollow. I am pleased that the representative Wiborg tells us that the Labour Party is on the workers' side, because that is where we have received a lot of party support from, as opposed to the Right and, in part, the Progress Party, which has primarily received money from the most powerful people in the country. It's a bond that's pretty serious. We'll have to have another debate. Then to the representative, Stein Mathisen. She says that there has been a tendency to be a consensus between the big parties in the big issues. No, in the major struggles for workers' rights, the Labour Party and the Right have historically been on quite different sides. I'm obviously now, too. The representative Stein Mathisen also said that the left-hand side creates a picture that the Right-wing unions want to live. Who are the people who claim it? I might have heard one person say it in this room. It's a strawman argument. We have a very simple debt: help to increase the degree of organisation, we say. They don't do that, and it's a liability for layers. So there's a lot of people who talk about the right not to organize. No one's against that court. No one wants to force anyone to organize. It's the right to be organized that's under pressure. It's the level of organisation that's under pressure -- not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2373	Norwegian work life is good, probably among the best and safest in the world. Nine out of ten thrive on the job, and there is a high level of trust between employees and employers. Workers in Norway have great autonomy compared to many of their colleagues in most of the countries with which we can compare. There is a relatively stable level of organisation, which was confirmed by the LO manager the other day. But the composition has changed, because the pattern of education, vocational training, work and business has changed and will continue to change. These developments will continue and will also challenge organisations to think again. It is not just Bente Stein Mathisen who meets trade unionists who react to party affiliation and party political battlepage. The trade unions' own membership study confirms this, and the result, I believe, is something that the organisations must also take seriously and not ignore. Lise Christoffersen asserted in his post that the Right voted against all the proposals against the crime of labour not in the previous period, but in the period before there. No, the right didn't. The right voted in favour of about 30 of them. 40 of the proposals that were put forward. The possibility of collective redress, which the representative Tajik also now takes up as a measure to increase the degree of organisation, we took away – it was controversial, it was fundamentally objectionable, and it was not used either. Together with the social partners, we have developed two strategies against labour-related crime. At the summit against labour crime this week, there was consensus around the table that efforts are producing results, and the political pressure is marked. That's good. I agree with several of those who have mentioned in the room now that it is unacceptable for employees to experience penalties when they notify. Last year the government also tightened up the HMS regulation, precisely to strengthen the working environment of employees. We also promoted several proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act to strengthen the rights of employees. Respect for party cooperation is about involving. So it's not a harelas to what the representative Tajik brought up. I just mean there's nothing new or something we disagree about. I agree that the cooperation of the parties should be respected. It's about involving, but it's also about balancing the parties' often different views. The fact that the parties don't always get what they want and what they want doesn't mean that they're not being heard. There may be other considerations that politicians also want to take care of. There has been a good debate, and I would like to thank the interpellant once again for putting this on the agenda. There have been interesting recordings, and I guess I have a strong feeling that the last words have not been said. For my own part, I will address this at the Employment and Pension Policy Council with the parties as early as the next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2392	The debate on substance is then closed. End of 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2404	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2446	During the debate, Ms Huitfeldt presented one proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to work to increase Norwegian participation in UN peacekeeping operations.’ The centre party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2462	The President will propose that the foreign policy outreach by the Minister for Foreign Affairs held at the Enlargement meeting on 27 February 2018 be included in the meeting book. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2470	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Left and Christian People's Party proposed no. 3-5, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Left proposed no. 6-11, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 12, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment First of all, there will be a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a thorough investigation into both the Export Control Act and the regulation in order to assess the possibility of introducing prohibition provisions which prevent the export of Norwegian material to countries where there is a risk that this will be used to commit war crimes or other violations of Norway’s international obligations. [[both A and B material]] This investigation shall assess both how Norway can best discharge its obligations under international law, while seeking to ensure a competitive framework for the Norwegian defence industry.’ The Christian People’s Party and the Red Party support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2505	Proposal No. 6-11, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to conduct an independent investigation into whether Articles 6 and 7 of the ATT should be incorporated into Norwegian law and/or regulation. The investigation should also look at other ways of amending the export control legislation in order to ensure that we carry out our obligations under the ATT in the best possible way.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests that re-port clauses become practice in all exports of military material, including to NATO countries and close allies.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Code for the Export of Defence Equipment in such a way that it is in line with the intention not to allow the sale of strategic products to countries where the authorities commit serious human rights violations and systematic repression of their own population.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the transparency of Norwegian export controls. As part of this, the government shall explore the possibility of introducing a similar practice as that in the Netherlands, where Parliament is publicly informed of the grant of export licences over a certain sum of details of the assessment of criteria against the application, except for the nearest allies, within two weeks of the application being granted.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to publish the reasons for the granting and refusal of licence applications for exports to non-NATO countries.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asking that requirements for end-user documentation become practice in all exports of defence equipment, including to NATO countries and close allies.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2550	Proposal No. 3-5, from the Socialist Left Party and the Left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks it to develop its own democratic criterion in order to prevent Norway from allowing the sale of strategic goods to countries where the authorities commit serious violations of human rights.’ [[including A- and B-materials and multi-purpose goods]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the imposition of random checks on the end-user documentation provided.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests a change in the interpretation of EU criterion 2 so that the human rights situation in a beneficiary country provides the basis for refusal of licence applications.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2579	Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case that ensures that ATT Articles 6 and 7 are included in the law or regulation.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2596	Proposal No. 1, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to explore the possibility of developing control mechanisms to allow enforcement of retail declarations.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2624	The right hand side and the progress side have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2652	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Left proposed no. 4 and 5, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 6, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there will be a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is actively asking for support for the decision to include the countries of the military coalition intervening in Yemen in the UN list of countries and parties committing crimes against children in armed conflicts.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2687	Proposal No. 4 and 5 from the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 Sounds ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop the export of arms and armaments to Saudi Arabia and the other countries participating in the Saudi coalition intervening in Yemen.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop exports of multifunctional goods to the countries participating in the coalition intervening in Yemen.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2711	Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to support the establishment and work of the group of international and regional experts mandated to investigate all violations of international humanitarian law in Yemen, both politically and economically.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2728	Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Stortinget to keep it continuously informed of changes in exports to the countries of the Saudi coalition intervening in Yemen.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2745	Proposal No. 1, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case that reviews Norwegian exports to the countries of the coalition since the intervention in Yemen started, and to explain how Norway has ensured that Norwegian defence equipment has not contributed to violations of humanitarian law.’ [[including re-port]] The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2770	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2786	During the debate, Marit Knutsdatter Strand has presented one proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all municipalities set up preparedness teams for bullying, either alone or in cooperation with others, who should be able to move out quickly and help the school and students in matters of bullying and incrimination.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2870	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2880	The decision will be taken a second time at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2917	In Case No. 9 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-01.ana.ud454e2942	Thus, the map is currently processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
