ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e28	The representative Liv Signe Navarsette, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e38	On behalf of the representatives of Per Olaf Lundtigen, Kjersti Toppe and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to amend the law on the coordination of pension and social security benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e43	The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e48	On behalf of Marit Arnstad, Liv Signe Navarsete, Emilie Enger Mehl and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on the necessary strengthening of the Home Office and the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e53	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e69	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e78	Yesterday the negotiated budget agreement came forward, and now we are waiting for the right-wing government and the Christian People's Party to start government negotiations. There the Prime Minister has opened up to discuss changes in the abortion law. We had this up to the discussion last week. Then the Prime Minister was in doubt whether it was reasonable to ask such questions in the Question Time. Now we have a spontaneous question hour, and I want to pursue the theme. In the discussion last week, the Prime Minister said that she considered changes in the abortion law as a result of the desire to remove § 2c. She then said that: ‘More emphasis shall be placed on the assessment of their own life situation by the woman and family if they are given responsibility for a child with additional challenges and, of course, that women continue to have abortions in cases where the foetus is not viable’. I don't think this answer calmed Norwegian women and men who in thousands poured into the streets all over the country last Saturday to protest against changes in the abortion law. It is therefore necessary to ask the Prime Minister again about the fate of this law and what she sees for herself. As I understand the Prime Minister's answer last week, the current amendment to the law will lead to women who carry a seriously ill foetus not being able to refer to the disease as a reason to ask for abortion after the twelfth week, she must justify it in her own life situation. Therefore, the question is, if there is nothing in the woman’s life situation that means that she cannot take care of a seriously ill child – she is a resourceful person, has a family, a network, a dwelling, an economy – will she be granted abortion?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e90	I would like to thank the representative for the question. At the same time, I will be allowed to express my joy at what happened in the Storting yesterday, which was mentioned, namely that we now have a budgetary settlement for next year's budget. It's going to be the sixth in a row that you've settled between these four games on the Storing. It is true, as the representative says, that it also provides the basis for a phase in which the four parties who have said that issues of expansion/change in the government can sit down and discuss political issues. That's also what the question is. What will be the result of such a debate, we will not know before the debate between the four parties is ready. I record in the newspapers that the representative Jonas Gahr Støre believes that I am trying to get away, or it is claimed that we are silent. I would like to remind you that I have answered questions related to this, not as Prime Minister, but as Right-Chairman, because it is the Right-Chairman who will go into discussions, debates and negotiations with three other parties. I have also taken into account the premises made by the Right in order to be able to participate in changes in the abortion law. I underlined it both in the debate with Jonas Gahr Støre before the Christian People's Party made its choice, and in questions and answers in the Stortinge last week. There's nothing new to report about it. The right starting point to be involved in changes is that the role of women and the position of women should not be weakened, and that we must ensure that we can remove that part of the law that can be perceived as discriminatory, but that at the same time we must strengthen other parts of the law. No more specific answers to this can be given, either on behalf of the government, since the government does not have this as a policy, or on behalf of other parties to enter into a debate on this matter. I think that we will have a great and rich opportunity to discuss when a possible government platform is ready to negotiate. The discussion will continue then.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e99	The Prime Minister does not answer the question. When she opens up to remove the part of Section 2 that indicates that a seriously ill child may be responsible for having an abortion, and at the same time says that it should be stressed that the situation of women is more important, she cannot put a sentence and say that more does not have to say about it. She must be able to give an assessment of what this means for the woman. If the woman cannot point to the viability of the fetus or serious illness, but has to talk about her own situation, my question is: If the woman's situation of a denominator is considered to be such that she can be able to care for a seriously ill child, is then the consequence that she can nevertheless show that her situation suggests that she wants abortion and is respected for it, or will she then be rejected? The Prime Minister must be able to emancipate the very clear quote she gives – remove §2c, the woman’s situation needs to be more focused. What significance will this have?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e104	That question I gave an answer to already in the debate on TV to the representative Jonas Gahr Støre, before the Christian People's Party made its choice. Then I said that I believe that the two things that have been the right starting point to go into the discussion about making changes to Section 2c are unlikely to result in fewer abortions – that it will be about as before – but you have to be able to make a law that is not perceived as discriminatory for some. That answer has been left for three weeks now to the representative Jonas Gahr Støre regarding what Right has had as the conditions for discussing this topic. Then it is that it is not government policy – the four parties will negotiate, and it is far from certain that they agree to make changes to Section 2c. But as the Right Leader, I have responded to a challenge that Jonas Gahr Støre also answered. He said yes, I said no. No, I answered yes and he said no – that's the way it was. We've said that with very clear conditions. Further questions will be asked when we actually see what the outcome of the negotiations will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e109	There will be follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e114	If I had answered yes, there would be an obvious misunderstanding. The working party answers no to this. But I still want to stay by it, because, in addition to the objective criteria attached to a sick fetus, the arrangement that the Prime Minister sees for itself will be replaced by subjective criteria that will deal with the woman. I just want to get the Prime Minister's assessment: does she see that this will be an extra burden for the woman, that everything then must be about her and her suitability when she asks for abortion? The Prime Minister says she can have abortion – I refer to what she said here in Stortinget last week – but does she see that there will be an additional burden for the woman that it will only be about her suitability to get it approved? It must mean something more when her suitability in weighing it up and the objective criteria for disease are removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e121	Applying for abortion is demanding for all women, at least to a large extent for all women. Applying for abortion after 12 weeks is demanding, as after 12 weeks there is no longer self-determined abortion in Norway. After 12 weeks, there are criteria laid down by the law on abortion, which must be the basis for which authorisation is granted. So this is about how to balance the different criteria with each other. The sum of the weights of this is that we believe it is possible to make changes that make what is perceived to be discriminatory for some, namely that the characteristics of the foetus are essential for the removal of an independent basis for abortion, while at the same time emphasising that women's position, women's rights are not impaired. But then I emphasize again: this is what we're going to get back to. It is far from certain that this will be Norwegian policy. It may well not be where the solutions are in connection with any negotiations, and then we will get back to it at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e126	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e131	I record that the Prime Minister does not reflect on what this would have to say to the woman. But let me follow that theme in one last question. We've listened to experts and lawyers, people who sit in the lobby, and doctors who meet women. The abortion law is a fine compromise. One cannot adjust parts of it without rocking the whole and balance. If you remove § 2c, an extra burden will be placed on the woman, who will have to bear the burden of meeting in the name and arguing for her case. But it is also the experts and experienced doctors who say that if Section 2c is removed and women's situation is highlighted, you are in fact very close that there is free abortion to 18 weeks. If it's going to be the same number that gets, and it's the woman's situation that decides, her choice, then it's practically free abortion all the way. Can the Prime Minister see that what she has actually opened up can lead to the outcome by removing Section 2c?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e139	The abortion law was created at the end of the 1970s. It was a compromise on the basis of a desire for society to set some limits, while at the same time being self-determined abortion. But it's not like evolution in the world hasn't changed since the 1970s. Biotechnological opportunities have changed, life expectancy and medical research have changed. People today live a long and good life with characteristics and diseases that in the 1970s would be defined as very difficult, and perhaps short-lived. It is important to remember that a law must also relate to the terrain, reality and changes that have occurred. We can see that, for example. with the many people with disabilities who survive, who can live a good life, and who can have a long life in our society, but who in the 1970s had a completely different type of life forecast. So I disagree when you say that a law doesn't have to change when reality, technology and everything around us change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e146	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e151	VG wrote on 2 November that the Right had already carefully prepared how the abortion law can be rewritten in order to comply with the Christian People's Party's requirement to remove §2c, which deals with serious disease in the foetus. After the VG experience, the Right had carefully examined the technical and real amendments that can be made to the abortion law, and prepared concrete sketches for changes that could meet the Christian People's Party. The case was justified in sources of the Solberg government. Since the Prime Minister made it clear last week that all the changes she wanted were only her wishes as right-wing leader, and only a breach of its own party decisions in this way, can the Prime Minister confirm that such investigations have not at any time involved the ministry's office at any level?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e158	We have extensive work in the Departments of Biotechnology — issues related to abortion and legislation. We have had this before the Storting Message that has been treated in Stortinget, with all the pages that have been related to it. It is not that we have not dealt with many of these issues in the civil service and other related to different outcomes and opportunities and legal competences. There are issues that have gone to the Biggest of Biotechnology. I don't know that we have any sketches from the Right. The fact that the right has previously had this position and therefore has also shown that it was possible to make changes is clear. On the right, this position was within several programme rounds until 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e165	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e170	The Biotechnology Communication was presented by the government almost two years ago. That the department has worked with it, everybody understands. Another statement the Prime Minister has had in the media in connection with the ongoing process in the Christian People's Party is that the leader Knut Arild Hareide, who started this, had acted undemocratically – I think the Prime Minister was quoted. Only one year ago, elections were held in Norway, and then one party wanted to make changes to the abortion law, in line with the changes that are now being debated. That part got 4.2 pst. digestion. Besides, there is a broad consensus on today's abortion law, and no other party has been asked to change it. Does the Prime Minister have any thoughts about the democratic valuer in changing such a law as a starting point?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e179	I think the representative Kjerkol should be a little more concrete and a little bit more concise when she tries to quote me. I have never said that Knut Arild Hareide is undemocratic, or that he has done something undemocratic. I have said that a change of government one year after a election, when you didn't say you wanted a change of government, can be seen as an undemocratic process. There's something quite different than saying that Knut Arild Hareide is undemocratic. I think it is nice to clarify from this pulpit something that the Workers' Party's representatives constantly use and abuse in discussions. In important matters, we should quote each other as correctly as possible. I hope that this is why I cannot hear more from the representatives from the Workers' Party, because it is now clear what they have said. So the question of changes in the abortion law and changes in matters. When parties compromise and create a basis for government formation, there will always be issues where there is a majority against or for another matter in the Storting, but where you get to the solutions in compromises. The most striking thing is that you don't take the impact assessment of the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja. It is one of the areas where there has been a broad majority for many years, but where different governments have given a minority in the United Kingdom the right to decide this in terms of compromise.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e190	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e195	It is interesting that the Prime Minister compares this with LoVeSe. In the Question Time, the Prime Minister is constantly stressing that she is speaking as the Right Leader and not as Prime Minister, and therefore I would like to ask the Right Leader about Right and Abortion. In 2017, the law of abortion was up here in Stortinget, and then Højre’s Vice-Chairman from the pulpit said, ‘This is also something that one had to – at least from the Right – have had thorough discussions about in the party, anchored in a national meeting.’ In 2013, the Højres Women’s Forum’s most important case was at Højre’s national meeting. Now it's completely quiet from the Right Women's Forum. My question is: did the Vice-Chairman fail when he said that all restrictions in the abortion law had to be dealt with in the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e204	This is also a statement I have heard in this debate, drawn out by the Workers' Party, including Jonas Gahr Støre, in debate with me. This opinion is about the question of twinning away, and I don't think any political parties had ever dealt with that question. That's exactly why we can also say that we have neither said yes nor no to the twins away from the right. For this, a legal assessment was – a matter that the Workers' Party conveniently placed in the drawer, after enquiries from the trade unions, while we were given a legal assessment of how the abortion law is actually understandable. The legal assessment was that abortion law has to be amended to introduce a practice that does not allow abortion of healthy twin fetuses. There's never been an ethical debate between the different parties. It is not a general statement on all matters, but related to a very specific matter, namely twins away.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e211	Martin Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e217	Last week the organisation Menschwerd went out and regretted that they used the term ‘Downs paragraph’ on §2c of the Abortion Act, and justified it by creating bad feelings for people with Downs and their families. That's what I thought was wise and rusty of them. When I asked the Prime Minister in the Question Time last week about her use of the term, she did not want to take self-criticism. She said that she understood that someone was responding to the concept, but also said that we need to ‘have a political debate about what we are actually discussing’. Now the organisation that first used the concept of the Downs paragraph has even regretted it. Does the Prime Minister agree that there is reason to take self-criticism for the use of that term?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e226	I would like to remind you that in the previous question hour I answered the question from the representative Martin Henriksen about exactly this, and I stand by what I said. I mean, as I said at the time, it's a concept that's obviously hard to use, and you shouldn't use much. But it may feel necessary to use it. Let me, for example. say that there is an extensive misconception, which is represented by the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol in Dagsnytt eighteen on October 22, that because you can't read it out of the law, it's not like that. It's actually like this, which was also confirmed by Jonas Gahr Støre when he was Minister of Health, that practice related to the interpretation of this law is clear and clear, that this is a paragraph that automatically holds the right to have abortion if an extra chromosome is detected, which means that the fetus has Down's syndrome. When representatives from the Labour Party are also in debates and give the impression that it is not right, and that the Prime Minister is misinformed, I believe that we must also inform the Norwegian debate about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e233	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e238	It gives reason to wonder how the Prime Minister has intended to meet the Christian People's Party at this point. I hear the Prime Minister's reply that she is open to change, but many in the Prime Minister's own party are strongly opposed to it. The left is opposite the change. The party of progress is against change. Does the Prime Minister think that she should force the representatives of the Progress Party and the Left to vote in favour of a change in Section 2c? Does the Prime Minister gamble that the Christian People's Party will finally accept that nothing is changed in Section 2c? Or has the Prime Minister thought that this should be included with some fine words and formulations in a government platform, so to be downrooted in the Storting, so in other words give the Christian People's Party a victory that she knows it won't be any of? The Prime Minister warned today's Business in October that Norwegian policy could end with just positioning and gambling. Does the Prime Minister not see that she has just brought this matter into a game and a positioning that is unworthy of the whole matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e245	I would like to stress that what I have agreed to do is to respond to a challenge related to whether we are willing to discuss two subjects within the framework of the abortion law – one is twinning away, and the other is the design of Section 2c. I have said that on behalf of the Right, and in the interview that forms the basis for that, it is clarified that I do so on behalf of the Right and not on behalf of the Government or the other parties in it. There has been a continuous premise in this discussion when I have said something about it. I believe that it is actually healthy that we have discussions about that kind of question. I believe that biotechnology and the development of our society mean that we should reflect on such ethical issues. So I think it's good for Norwegian political debate that we sometimes think about how the relationship is in the actions we're doing. And we can end up with different positions. I respect the fact that we can end up with a discussion about whether we should make changes because of the technological changes that have occurred, but say that we should still have self-determined abortion, that the woman's voice should be the most important thing, or that we should make new rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e252	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e257	Let me ask the Prime Minister of today's government a question. A debate that has been going on in the autumn – which unfortunately has been reflected in the debate on the abortion law, but which we have had before, and which we must definitely have after the debate on the abortion law, and completely independent of it – is about what we do for families with long-term ill children. I brought with me a letter from Iris in five years, who is a big sister to Aurora, who is seriously ill and regularly has to go to hospital. The mother of Iris is one of the lions' mothers who fight for care without a time limit. The size has decided that we should have a care allowance scheme without a time limit, but the government cannot – despite repeated promises – deliver proposals on it. The government has now informed Stortinget that this needs to be investigated again. Why can't we give these families Christmas peace and adopt a care allowance scheme without a time limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e266	I want to stress that this is a follow-up theme – was it the main question?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e271	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e276	No, a little follow-up theme on the side of what was the theme. I would like to answer that we are concerned that we should get better relations for those with disabilities, permanently ill children, but also permanently damaged children. That's one of the reasons why we changed the care scheme. This government cut through something that the previous government never did, that is, to make sure that children with severe disabilities can experience that their parents can be at home for periods, whether their children have the prospect of getting better or getting worse. It was a very clever exception for this earlier. The main reform in terms of changes in the care system is that many more children born with injuries, for example, will experience that their parents are allowed to be at home. Then we have said that we need to look at – and figure out – the consequences of giving a general order. However, we have made a number of improvements in the care scheme, precisely to help parents in Norway who have nursing children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e285	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e291	I took it up because I believe it is relevant. This is the debate we should have – instead of a debate on the abortion law. This is at the heart of the debate on how we create a society of space for everyone, also for those who have it tough. It is true that families who are in very difficult situations, with seriously ill children who have been ill for many years – some parents do not know whether their children will live – at the same time see that the economy is at risk of going into the ditch, that they have to choose between income and being with their sick children. The effect of this time limit is already taking place because these families have to plan for the long term. That's why many people don't dare take out their allowance. The question is why the government has not followed up the Storting decision. SV, Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and the Center Party have decided that the time limit should be removed. Then it's not the Prime Minister's job to find out, but to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e298	What we have done is to make improvements, so that parents of permanently ill children are now included in the scheme. In the past, the completely narrow exceptional case covered. What we've done is we've eased the strict disease requirement, so that more people get the opportunity. This means that it is now enough to have a sick child who needs continuous supervision and care. In the past, it was a life-threatening and very serious disease that was required. Overall, the age limit has increased to 18 years. The possibility of graduation is there, so you can combine with being present. We're working on the question of making this unlimited time limit. The challenge with that is, of course, that we have expanded to completely different groups, and then you have to do it indefinitely. In order for no parents to experience that something is falling away, we have said that we will come up with a temporary arrangement, which means that if both parents have taken it out full, it will in any case apply to a five-year limit, so that no one in the first few years will experience that they are losing it. That is what is in the regrouping proposition that has come, and that proposal will come from us in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e305	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e310	One of the most important jobs for the government is to ensure the security of people in Norway, to ensure that the country has a good preparedness, to ensure that society has the ability to deal with the unmistakable, to ensure your and my security, to ensure that Norway is a safe country. It is the police and the defense that are going to do this crucial job. It requires resources, it requires priorities, and it is a political responsibility to prioritize it. The police have been through a huge reform that has taken a lot of energy. In the phase that the police have been in the last few years, it has taken enormous amounts. According to the Joint Police Association, there have been crisis-like conditions in 11 out of 12 police districts. The defence has also undergone major changes through the government’s defence agreement, and decisions have been made to reduce Home Affairs. It is Home Security to secure the most important objects around the whole of Norway. The Riksrevision is very hard in its criticism of the government in this matter. As far as the police are concerned, they say they look very seriously at the situation. When it comes to the defense, they say they're looking very seriously at the situation. When we know that it's Home Protection that's going to do a lot of the practical operational work in a crisis -- it's those who are going to protect the waterworks, the power supply and important military and civil key objects -- and when we read the National Audit Office's report, we can be quite startled. For in this report it says: Home Security lacks staffing, and they lack critical material. It even says that in parts of the Home Security there is too little ammunition. The Riksrevision concludes that the Home Office does not have the capacity to protect the objects it will, in terms of both civil and military objects, in a crisis – so they cannot protect the most important places around Norway when the crisis is there. So my question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister agree with the reality description given by the Riksrevision of the country's home security in this report?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e321	The Supervisory and Constituent Committee of the European Parliament has just conducted hearings on object safety. During those hearings, the head of the Home Corps was in Stortinget and gave a clear and clear signal that the Home Corps has an operational capability that is very good. They have had significant upgradings over the last two years on material, on ammunition and on others. They also have the ability in peacetime to solve the problems they're assigned to. But then it is that in times of war – and that is important, and underlined throughout the hearing that was – the defense and the police have to make resources available on the basis of what is most important, and what matters are most important. That's why it's not like – and it's never been, in any way – that the Home Guard should be adjusted and manned so that in wartime they can solve both the security tasks they have and the other tasks they may have of a more temporary and war-related nature. A picture is now drawn that I do not recognize from what the Home Office and the Defense themselves say. There has been a difficult situation in Home Affairs. We know that they were poorly trained, we know that there was not much effort in the past, but in recent years there has been a significant upgrade of Home Security and Home Security equipment and materials.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e328	I notice that the Prime Minister does not want to answer if she shares the Riksrevision's description of the Home Office. It is the second report of the National Audit Office on such a fundamental issue as preparedness and object protection, and their assessment of the situation in Home Protection is totally crushing, both in terms of material, operational capability, ammunition and capacity to carry out their tasks. Another agency that the Riksrevision is very concerned about is the police — they are very serious about the situation in the police. Police have been through a huge reform that has required a lot of resources, and there have been a lot of resources for structural change. But when we look at the government's budget, and when we look at what the police have been asking for, the government has not prioritised funds for basic security in the police. That's what's a big paradox: that there's been a big police centralization and a big structural reform that's taken a lot of resources and created a lot of turmoil, but you haven't given priority to basic security. Does Prime Minister Erna Solberg think that there has been a right government priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e335	There is a considerable effort on the police in the state budget for the current year and in the state budget for the next year, and it has been every year during this government. Then it is true that when a major reform is implemented, there will be changes. Then there will be challenges, and that will be difficult. People are to be placed in new jobs and work in a new way. In fact, one of the most important things about police reform is to work in a new way, raising the quality of police work. Prevention should be improved, the investigative work improved and the criminal proceedings should be improved. But it requires new working methods and new ways of working. Therefore, there is no doubt that in the transition phase – and we are now in the middle of the reform with regard to the qualitative aspects – there have been challenges. But at the bottom, there's a strong commitment to the police. If the representative had been concerned that this would be successful, he might not have proposed to cut $300 million in his alternative budget. kr to those who are to carry and direct the entire implementation, as the Centre Party does, namely by cutting the department and the central police department. We do not get good reforms if management is to be weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e344	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e349	The big picture is that the Riksrevision has produced two reports with some of the most pressing criticisms of the government. Object safety is neither in defence nor in police in line with the regulation. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has not prioritised securing its own objects. The Ministry of Defence does not have an overview of the state of its own feature. The Government has not informed the Storting about the postponement of deadlines. The government has withheld information about expected costs. At the same time, we have a government that has been sitting for five years, which has had great freedom in the field of money use, which has increased the use of oil by over 100 billion. kr during this period. Nevertheless, one has to say that this is five lost years for terrorist protection. Instead of taking this seriously in their answers, the Prime Minister begins with a polemics against other parties. Let me take the simple question: Is it such that the government takes seriously the reports of the Riksrevision and the content of them on the state of terror protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e356	We're taking the Riksrevision reports seriously. We have also pointed out and made it clear that there are parts of the object protection where we should both be clearer and consistent with the information for Stortinget, precisely because when we see the piece-by-part reporting, we have not given a good enough picture of the whole. I have also said that in hearings in Stortinget. The second thing that's important to say is that there's been a powerful investment in these areas. It was incredibly challenging. When we got into the government offices, we had a defense that was underfunded, where we had a poor material situation. We have built this up with the long-term plan that we are now in the third year of. So it's a significant bet, a significant upgrading. To say that the protection of terrorism in Norway is worse – it is significantly better. It's much better for Homeland today. It is significantly better for the defense, and it is significantly better for the police. Once again, the Central Party has to bear to hear that their alternative budget would actually weaken the defense's object protection. When you think you cut red tape, you cut for those who want to do the insurance work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e363	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e369	The Prime Minister repeats that it is a strong commitment, and it is a statement that is not at all related to what the Riksrevision has said twice, both in 2015 and 2017. Just a small example: for several years, object protection has not even been mentioned in the letters of assignment from the Department of Police to the Directorate of Police – a natural thing like that. Let me point to something else. The Prime Minister was, as opposition leader, bone-hard in these kinds of cases, and she said, among other things. after the 22nd July report: ‘That’s why I have always thought that good politicians can’t concentrate on being offensive in the media, they also have to follow up their decisions, not getting involved in the details.’ When she formed a government, she also launched a focus on preparedness. Now we stand here five years later with a massive criticism from the National Audit Office. How does the Prime Minister, on the basis of her own statements, feel that she has followed up the decisions and got involved in the details?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e381	We've followed up the decisions. We have implemented measures at all stages of the follow-up of both the Yard Commission and the Special Committee set up at Stortinget. We're good at it. We've had a huge effort on the police. We have a terrorist police force, an emergency police force, which is considerably better trained. We have much better trained police forces out in the rest of the country. When I'm out visiting the police districts, one of the challenges I hear about is that we're doing so much training on some of these people – to be prepared – that it goes beyond the usual police duties. It's actually shown a desire for us to do less of that, because you want to spend time on other things. Then we've increased the number of police officers dramatically in recent years. We're going to continue to increase it, because we're going to achieve our goal of having two policemen per 1,000 inhabitants in Norway. It's a powerful bet. Not least, we've created a plan for police object protection to ensure that the shielding objects are secured by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e386	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e391	A new report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows that global warming has serious consequences for nature, people and communities around the world. In 2012, Stortinget agreed on a climate agreement that would cut Norwegian emissions down to a maximum of 48,6 million tonnes by 2020. That was the time we had a government that was open to enter into climate settlement with the opposition – a good custom that I would like to take the opportunity to encourage us to get more of. The government – today’s government, i.e. – is firmly opposed to breaking Norway’s climate targets for 2020, despite the fact that there are several ways to cut emissions if you are a government that will cut emissions. That is why I want to challenge the Prime Minister for a concrete cut in emissions. The breeding industry is responsible for emissions of more than 400000 tonnes of CO 2. Some farms are currently electrifying and cutting emissions, e.g. in our common home country, Hordaland. A report shows that this can be done on a large scale, and it costs little. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the government will require all new farms to operate with zero-emission technology by 2020. This is a proposal for which there is a majority in the Storting whose right is in it. Does the Prime Minister consider that the Storting should decide to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e403	There is no doubt that climate change emissions in Norway, including CO 2 emissions, are now falling, and that we will have significant developments in the future, where the measures undertaken by the government – and cooperation with the Stortinget – deliver results. But many of the results are too late for 2020. Among other things, with the big investment we now have within changing the car fleet, the phasing out of fossil cars will go faster, and we also have a hope that we will be able to get in place that what is bought after 2025 in Norway, will largely be zero-emission cars. That's why point two is working in the transport sector to shift the entire utility drive to smaller emissions, either on biogas solutions or on other solutions, hydrogen solutions, and that's why we're working on incentive schemes to get more people to switch to vans with this. With regard to the farming industry and the emissions there, I believe that the polluters have to pay. I think they have to pay for their emissions, and we have to make sure that it is an incentive for them to make good solutions. But I can't say anything over the table here about all the sides of the exact concrete proposal. I need to get time to look at that, and we need to take a closer look at what changes and consequences it brings. There are not many new permits being granted, there are largely extensions of permits that have been, due to the new policy for the gradual increase of biomass established by the government, within this traffic light system. And then we've done a lot of work on development concessions, which are creating completely new types of models. What's interesting is to see if we can also create even more of the kind of concessions that are associated with not only local pollution, but also emissions and other methods for it. But I can't say yes or no to something I haven't gone into thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e417	It is useful to get the Prime Minister's clear recognition that the government is heading towards breaking the climate targets for 2020, because it took quite a while before the government was clear about it. But it's not good that it is, because there are many ways to cut emissions if you're a government that will cut emissions. In Sweden, the Swedes have prepared to accept electric trains from Trøndelag. What's missing is a power line on the Norwegian side, on the Trønderbanen. An electrification of the Thrønderbahn will cut emissions, and it will provide a more modern railway. There is also a proposal for a majority in the Grand Duchy if the Right joins. Does the Prime Minister think that there is an emissions cut The Storting should decide to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e422	We're also trying to get zero emissions from the Trunder Railway, but we're also trying to get the best possible offer for consumers on the Trunder Railway, and that we're going to be forward-looking in what we're doing. That's why we're busy taking a new round of how we can make sure that we can get more train departures as quickly as possible and the improvements on the track that make more people travel collectively in these areas instead of traveling by their own car. Then the service offer and departures are among the most important things we can do with. It's because this is an important collective offer in a commuting area, so then it's important to make sure that we get those things done. That's one of the reasons we don't have it in now – we're taking a fresh look at whether we can provide an even better service offer. Here are two considerations that both aim to bring down the emissions, one of which will have a much more short-term and faster effect, if we get more frequent departures and more that actually travel with collective solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e427	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e432	A lot of trophies would probably claim it's possible to do both of them at once. But at least there is no immediate yes to doing what can do for us to achieve the climate targets for 2020, and so the government is constantly pushing against breaking those climate targets, despite the fact that there are many ways to cut emissions if you are a government that will cut emissions. Let me do another example. In the 2012 climate agreement, we had a very important agreement to ban heating in building based on fossil fuels from 2020. It was an important victory. In industry, some fossil oil is still used for heating purposes. We can replace this with other and more environmentally friendly energy sources. Many businesses have already shown their way and how to do so. This is a proposal for which there is a majority in the Grand Duchy if the Right joins. Does the Prime Minister think this is an emission cut The Storting should decide to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e439	Firstly, I would like to draw the attention of the representative Lightbaken to the fact that the two measures he has so far outlined would not give lower emissions in 2020. The electrification of the Trunder Railway does not result in lower emissions in 2020. Nor if we have a ban on emissions from 2020 and get new solutions in the farming industry that do not generate CO 2 emissions, it will result in less emissions. It uses instruments in a 2020 argument that will not take effect after 2020. There is the problem of SV in part of this debate, because the SV’s proposals will not have any effect until 2020 either. It has been well documented that SV does not have a solution that would actually achieve the 2020 targets. In this way, we're equal, with the same starting point, and then we have to pick the best way forward. Then I have said what our main instruments are. It's working with the whole transport sector to get it done. We work with clear demands. One of the areas is, among others: to look at how we can make sure that industry uses less oil and fossil fuels in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e447	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e453	Firstly, SV has presented plans for how we can achieve much faster and much larger emissions cuts. Secondly, all the proposals I have mentioned today are things that can provide quite rapid emission reductions. The reason why I take it up with the Prime Minister is that the government is prepared to break all climate goals – in the short term and in the long term, and until now, the government has not agreed to be on one of the climate proposals we have taken up, although I note that a few of them are to be assessed, and that is good. But with that attitude towards new climate action, it is no wonder that this government is proposing to break Norway’s climate targets. It is also said that emissions are falling, but those emissions are falling because Norwegian climate policy under Erna Solberg baths in rainforest-causing palm oil. I see from the budget agreement that the government is now going to spend another year figuring out how to throw out the palm oil. Such decisions are made by the Storting before, and the government has only trained. That is why I ask: can the Prime Minister guarantee that by 1 January 2020, the climate-damaging and rain-forest-causing palm oil is thrown out of the fuel in Norwegian cars? The goal is to cut the emissions, not the rainforest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e460	We fully agree that we should ensure that the biofuels we use are sustainable. That's why we have a stepping-up on blending biofuels that actually affect emissions, not only locally in Norway, but also nationally, which I answered in a previous Questionnaire. So it also has an international effect. It's a little bit less emissions than what we're calculating in Norway, that's right, but it's giving you total emission reductions. Therefore, it is so important that we have done the things that stimulate more biodiesel and other solutions and biogas into Norway. One of the things we've done is to make it more favorable. I remember that it was perhaps the most difficult part of the investment to achieve more of this was the changes the previous government made to the user fee and other, which resulted in the recently opened company in Østfold that was going to produce having to close the doors immediately. That was when the prime minister after the debate concluded that it has now been found that the government parties are behind the government, but that someone is further behind it. There was a huge setback for investment in this, which makes us less rusty today with regard to having more advanced biofuels in Norwegian production at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e467	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e472	It is interesting to hear the Prime Minister talk about large emissions cuts in the transport sector. We have taken some action on the private car side in Norway that has been successful, but we have several low-hanging fruits that can give great, not to say huge, emissions shots quickly. One such measure is a so-called CO 2 business transport fund. It should not take a long time for the Prime Minister to be able to respond to this, because there is a proposal the government is well aware of, it is the wish of the Storting, the climate movement and researchers, and not least the industry itself and the transport operators. The model is well-tested, it's about the NO x fund, which has existed since 2008 and has given large emissions reductions of NO x. Such a fund will provide high emissions savings of CO 2 quickly and will lead to the rapid introduction of zero-emission and low-emission technologies in Norway. Still, this leaves this waiting for itself. The fund should already be in place, and in this year's proposal for a government budget, there is hardly any sign of it. What makes it dwindle? What makes these negotiations so difficult for the government? It seems strange to us in Stortinget. Is it the case that the government does not trust the business community and does not want to establish such a fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e493	We've been and are negotiating with the business community about the creation of a CO 2 fund, but the assumptions we've gone into it are probably slightly different. The business community has wanted to take most of the CO 2 taxes out of the budget, put them into a fund and manage it itself. In that case, it must be notified because there will then be aid schemes which will take longer. The second is that one must then fill all the holes that are made in the state budget. When a decision was made in Stortinget, it was the new CO 2 taxes that would be introduced into it. It wouldn't give me a volume I think business agrees with. So it's important that we have created a great environment of competence for these efforts, and that's Enova. Enova has schemes already authorised in the EU and ESA to operate with this type of aid. We initially wanted them to have a role as a secretariat and to be able to work for this fund. It's among the things we're discussing to find good solutions. We're in discussion and we're trying to find good solutions, but we have to make sure that those solutions become useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e509	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e514	When the government parties started working on the government budget proposal, which was presented a few weeks ago, they knew they had 7 billion. kr in fresh money earned by Norway through the sale of climate allowances. The seven billion. kr the government has chosen to use for tax cuts for the richest rather than for climate cuts. This is fresh money that you could have used to afford, for example. 1 000 new electric car speed chargers across the country next year, climate action for the commercial transport within or outside a fund, incipient escalations needed for carbon capture and storage for industry, starting electrification of the entire coast — and perhaps setting aside a fund for climate action for the people, so that people can take action in their own everyday lives. But this has been chosen not to use the option, but to be able to spread the money flat. Why has it not been possible to cut emissions by 7 billion? kr from quota sales?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e519	That's about. 1 billion. kr in tax reliefs in this budget, so to say that we've spent 7 billion. kr to tax relief that could have been applied to the environment is not correct. But we spend money lowering corporate taxes and taxes on ordinary people. When we lower the corporate tax, we make it easier for companies to have a profit they can use to reinvest in new products and make sure to take the green shift faster. In fact, the framework conditions for business are important for getting the green shift. I think it is very important that we remember that research and development also costs in these companies, so we also stimulate more of it. But the most important thing we do is spend 6 billion dollars. of these for welfare and environmental measures. One of the things we do is to increase the inputs to just the most important tool for developing charging stations, Enova, which has the program to create charging stations. They will receive increased input into this State budget. For this reason, one of the issues raised by the representative Bastholm has already been implemented in the form that we have spent more money on Enova, which now has a mandate to deal with CO 2 emissions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e529	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e534	I shall follow up on what the representative Audun Lysbakken asked questions, i.e. the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. But then I must also say that when we know how important the rainforest is for climate and that in the budget negotiations we have just ensured that palm oil should be removed from biofuels, it is an important thing to say – yes, I would say it was palmesus over the negotiations that ended yesterday. But the report from the Intergovernmental Panel says that we have a worse time than we thought, and the message from our top professionals is that emissions must drop by 45 pst. by 2030 if global warming does not exceed 1.5 degrees. The report states that the world's emissions increase, and that there is a significant difference between the world and the world if there is an increase of 1.5 or 2 degrees. It matters to both nature and man, and we must expect more extreme heat waves in both Africa, the Middle East and Central America. At worst, this can lead to food production failure, people's migrations we've barely seen before, and we're going to experience sea level rising. I have also heard the Prime Minister say that emissions in Norway are going down, and I am pleased about that. But when the world's collecting emissions goes up, we all have to do more. My question to the Prime Minister is: Since all the government's governance documents were drawn up before the IPCC report, what has the Prime Minister done to scale up the Norwegian efforts in this vital field and that we should reach it in time, now that we have a report that says we have a worse time than ever?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e543	The IPCC report was a report that was based on an order made at the Paris meeting in 2015 because the objectives were actually strengthened in relation to what was contained in the starting documents of the Paris Agreement. But one of the top priorities of the government in the negotiations in Paris was that we had to update the targets on the road every five years. It was one of the great breakthroughs that the government worked for, and that Tine Sundtoft worked hard with in her period. So as early as 2020, we need to report on both how far we have come and on increased ambitions. I have noticed that the European Commission has signalled that it wants to increase the target from 40 to 45 p.m. and that the European Parliament has wanted to raise the target to 55 p.m. It's positive. It is not certain that all EU Member States will agree on this, but in any case Norway will deliver on what our objectives are during a process into 2020. Therefore, there are already mechanisms to update targets and commitments, and there was something this government worked for as an important priority in the Paris meeting. It's true that emissions are rising. First and foremost, emissions are rising due to the use of coal in Asia. There has been an increase in Asia in carbon emissions, which contributes to its importance, for example: to see if we can find good CCS solutions that can be used on coal in the future, because many of the coalworks are very new, they are newly invested, while many of the coalworks in Europe are not. In Europe, natural gas can be an effective intermediate station on the issue of coal decommissioning and end-of-life, but in Asia we need to find other solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e553	I thank you for your answer. Norway is in the process, but what this report, which came in October, says, is that we must also be more radical. We must be more inventive and more innovative than we had believed until October. It's a challenge that we've seen 2020 targets that we don't reach, we've seen 2030 targets that we don't reach, and we've seen 2050 targets that we don't seem to achieve. One of the questions I want to raise is that we landed a budget yesterday, but we don't have an climate budget. I think I'd be a very good traveler to get to those paintings that I think we should now. I just want to challenge the Prime Minister: Doesn't it also see that we need a clear climate budget to achieve these goals, to have a political hub and to get the actions that are absolutely necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e560	I just want to stress that I haven't given up on achieving our 2030 targets. On the contrary, we are in a path – and we have shown it to Stortinget – where we can achieve our 2030 targets. That's still my ambition, and I wouldn't write off those ambitions right now. We will also reach our commitments for 2020, but we are not doing the change, including: because, at the time the 2020 targets were set, it was assumed that there would be a much higher CO2 price than it has been in this period, due to lower economic growth. So that effect in terms of technology change that a higher general European pricing of CO2 would give, and that was included in those calculations, we haven't got. In fact, there are no batches that have a solution to our national emission targets for 2020 or that have had it in the last few years. I agree that it is important that we have a good overview of what we are doing. That is what we will have when we have concluded an agreement with the EU. Then we'll get a path from 2020 to 2030 that we'll be a little bit above or below every year, but we have to take back what we're over, if we haven't managed to achieve the goals. It will give us an instrument that might look like a climate budget in the future. We can discuss many of the questions about what is right, but we get both an agreement and the climate law, which are important limits and important parameters to measure this by.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e567	There will be follow-up questions – first Tore Storehaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e572	Yesterday, the Prime Minister of Equinor, and talking about the future of Norwegian oil policy, explained her vision there by referring to the IEA and showing a scenario that the IEA has, where one sees that global oil consumption is going to be 70 million barrels of oil every day in 2040. That scenario is based on a global CCS bet that we don't see today. It is based on large negative emissions, which will capture large areas and have a different rate than what we see today. But worst of all, the oil scenario used by the Prime Minister does not suggest that we limit the heating to 1.5 degrees. My question to the Prime Minister is whether this means that the government has given up the Paris goals – or does it mean that the head of government doesn't think it's possible to reach them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e579	I haven't given up the Paris goals or think it's impossible to reach them. The most demanding part is going to be energy in developing countries and in Asia because of the economic development they naturally want to make sure to lift even more people out of absolute poverty and reach the sustainability goals we have. That's why it's important that we work with several different technologies at once. In Norway, however, it is important, and this must be taken into account, that Norwegian oil activity will be lower in the coming years. We have a small peak in the activity of extraction now, but oil production in Norway has steadily declined. Gas production has increased. And in the medium term, gas is an important instrument in Europe if we are to bring down total emissions in Europe, because it will be a stabiliser in that market. In the long term, gas has a large potential related to hydrogen production, but then we must have solved the storage question with regard to CO 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e588	Tore Storehaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e593	I notice that the Prime Minister says that one sees that oil investments are going to go down. I hope it will also be based in the future on an energy scenario that assumes that we meet the obligations we have, and that we limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. At home, as the Prime Minister points out, we have a large oil sector that has made us rich, but which has the power to release quite large amounts of CO 2 through the petroleum products we export. When I have asked the Ministry of Finance what is going on to neutralize our petroleum tax system, I get the answer that today's tax system has a tax advantage of about 9 billion. kr. Then I see in the evening post that the Prime Minister says that the person who is going to turn the light on the Norwegian socket is not yet born. Does the Prime Minister believe that the person who makes the tax égiment on the Norwegian pedestal neutral is born?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e603	What I'm talking about in that interview is that the stability of Norwegian oil taxation is an important value in itself. It is important because Norway is a high-cost country. We have stronger environmental requirements than many other countries, and we have competition for extraction and competence in the future. This means that having stability and predictability is an important value in itself if we are not to undermine jobs that are important for the Norwegian economy. I also said that in order to find changes in the tax system, we need to cooperate with the industry. I think that's important, because this stability that we contribute to oil policy is an incredibly important piece for 170 000 jobs in our society. Therefore, it is important that if changes occur, they must occur in a different situation. Then I want to stress that the rule that the Christian People's Party is now taking up was implemented by a Christian People's Party Council. I sat in that government, and I heard a strong commitment just for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e612	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e617	I think there are a lot of Norwegian citizens who have lost confidence in Norwegian policy in the last few weeks. If you haven't been skydipped about how you've put the law of abortion into action from the highest level of Norwegian politics, you've been gradually more aware that Norway is not following our own climate goals, and we're doing it with open eyes. In the budget agreement that the government agreed with the Christian People's Party yesterday, according to the news there will be 200 million. kr more for climate action. It's small money. Norway has to halve its emissions for at least the next 12 years. It's not a single thing. It's all about the welfare, freedom, opportunities for our kids and grandchildren, and it's about taking our responsibility for a climate crisis that particularly affects the poorest in the world. Drying and extreme weather lead to more poverty. Several are going to die of heat and lack of clean water, and several have to flee from their homes and live in tent camp. But the Christian People's Party, a party that says they're busy with the poor and the children's corps, has only been able to negotiate exchange payments for climate action. So the confidence that is starting to weaken out there in the population is also weakened here in the Storting – the confidence of the government. The new budgetary unit makes it no less relevant for us in the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens Then it will be up to the individual representative’s own conscience to vote in favour of or against such a mistrust proposal – based on what was promised to the voters when they were going to enter the Stortinget. My question to the Prime Minister is – because we know that the original government proposal raised up to one third of the cuts that the UN climate report now says we need: does the Prime Minister know how much climate we can expect with the new budgetary unit?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e630	The budget unit was published yesterday in the 22nd hour, so I probably can't give an evaluation today of how much climate comes out of it. It is important to remember that climate cuts come in a dynamic situation. They're coming because you're running technology. The biggest climate cuts we have now are in an area where many thought it was very difficult to achieve climate change, namely passenger car traffic, because we have had strong instruments to do this. Both the electric car bill and the zero-emission bet, and the changes that this government and a majority of the Stortinget have made in the one-off fee, also help the fossil cars purchased to emit significantly less than the cars previously made. We are a country very many look to when it comes to passenger car traffic. We also see it within the different arrangements we have linked to the maritime sector, where there are now large, new technology approaches being taken. One thing is the ordering of ferries, but we see how The Fjords now after ordering a new passenger boat, which I baptized on Saturday, both have developed a passenger boat that is powered by electricity, and not least made a docking station that I think is going to be innovative for very many other countries that are going to have passenger traffic, or less traffic, which also allows you to get cleaner ports and better systems. This is innovation and innovation driving the green shift. It's important to remember that this is a government -- I didn't think Norway had a planned economy, where you think if you put x dollars in there, y dollars out -- that believes in the dynamics. We believe that business is able to make priorities, we believe in praising emissions. That's why we've increased the CO 2 pricing for business during this period, so that emissions give a higher cost, and it creates a greater degree of results. That's why we're doing a lot of concrete efforts and a lot of laws and rules, and I think we're still able to achieve our 2030 targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e645	I record that the Prime Minister has no answer to how much emissions cut we get with the new agreement. What I trust is that these are numbers that the government actually got. Among other things, we have a highly competent environment in Enova, which knows exactly where the dynamics that the Prime Minister referred to are in the market, and where the technology development is, before it is mature enough to be rolled out and you could start cutting emissions. So you have this knowledge. That you're not counting on it, it's just that you don't want to show it outward. I strongly doubt that the Prime Minister had set up is in Stortinget today without a clear answer to how much tax cuts the new budget unit gives, or how much money the government is transferring to the municipalities next year. This is about controlling the costs that come in the future because we are not doing the climate measures we need today. I would like to give the Prime Minister another opportunity to explain why we do not start counting on the emissions through a carbon budget, which the representative Hareide was also inside, so that we get an open and democratic debate in the Grand Duchy about how much government with its policy actually cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e652	We report on climate emissions and on developments on different pathways. I know that a climate law that requires us to report this to Stortinget means that you have an opportunity to look at what is actually happening, and we report on how we think different measures and changes will affect. Some of the major changes we've made come from major technology changes more than it comes from the plan economy in which it's obvious that MDG believes. But to believe that as Prime Minister I would not come to the Stortinget today because I could not count on all things in terms of an agreement that came at noon. 22 yesterday, I will be allowed to say that this is not how I treat myself as Prime Minister Stortinget. I'd probably come to the room if it wasn't a budget settlement too, or if it was 10 minutes ago. I'm in charge of the government's policy. We have a budgetary settlement that obviously we can't ask Enova to settle between noon. 22 o'clock last night. 10 today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e657	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e662	56 nurses were recently on strike to raise the minimum wage for the least paid nurses in Norway. The strike withdrawal was sound, it never created any danger to life and health, but then the NHO Service and Trade Lockout warned of 500 nurses, which would immediately endanger patients' lives and health. This forced the payroll of the civil government, as ordered by the NHO. Lockout is a legal instrument, but it cannot thwart the laws passed by the Stortinget, and the law states that health services must be organised in such a way that they are sound. NHO’s health business has a statutory responsibility for the care of life and health, and in most health businesses, exclusion of all nurses will immediately endanger patients’ lives and health. So by shutting health professionals out through lockout, the NHO is, in Red's opinion, responsible for the breach of its legal responsibility by the member companies. Then we also see that the NHO went to this irresponsible step to force a forced payroll, so that they could avoid Norway's lowest paid nurses getting better pay. It was obviously more important for the NHO to secure the profits of their businesses than to meet fair pay demands. My questions are the following: Does Erna Solberg agree that the consequence of a lockout would be a violation of the law, and that the NHO would thus be responsible for these crimes? And can this kind of crime be prevented in a way other than by forced pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e673	I believe it is serious when a conflict affects the health sector, as it does in this case. It's the parties that are responsible for solving it, so it's the Norwegian Nurses' Association and the NHO Service and Trade that are in conflict, and I think it's the parties that should first and foremost resolve these kinds of conflicts. I want us to have to use, as much as possible, compulsory pay. However, the Health Authority has the professional responsibility to assess the impact of conflicts on patients and users, and we intervene in such conflicts with forced pay only when the consequence is that it threatens life and health, or if it has major and serious societal consequences. It was probably the Health Authority's assessment that lockout led to a risk to life and health. The government is not pleased that the responsibility for resolving conflicts of this kind is being pushed over to the government. The parties should take responsibility and resolve the conflict, but our responsibility is to take care of patients and users in this context, and therefore we have stopped this conflict by forced pay. So the parties themselves have to be better off not getting into a situation where the authorities have to intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e680	The issue concerned the responsibility of the NHO for criminal offences. Norway has been criticised for the use of compulsory pay. This is the third time in two and a half years that the government intervenes with forced pay. We see that the NHO Service was ordered as soon as they announced a lockout. What the matter shows is that health workers in private enterprises are actually without strike. It's just for the employer to notify lockout, the strike is stopped by a forced payroll. We think that's unsustainable. Does Prime Minister Solberg really believe that it is proper to allow private companies to provide health services to the public when employees are in reality without strike and thus without the possibility of having fair and important demands to improve their pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e689	It is the responsibility of the parties to negotiate – it is not the government that should make an assessment of it. What we're going to take care of is the rights of patients and users in the system. Now I myself have been involved in the administration of the compulsory pay law in the past, as a municipal minister when it was there, and unfortunately we have had to use compulsory pay terms in the health sector both in different parts of the public sector and in the private sector because of the consequences of conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e694	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e699	The question concerned the strikerette – it was not answered either. We could read in the VG last week about nurse Oda at the Uranianborg Home in Oslo, which is run by the commercial operator Aleris. She earns 43 000 kroner less a year than her colleague in the municipality's nursing home. This dumping of wages and salaries, which was also addressed by the strike, is a direct consequence of the Court’s tendering policy. The welfare professionals cut the personnel costs in order to win tenders and to earn a lot of money. The conflict shows us how far they are willing to go – putting patients' lives and health at risk in order to avoid fulfilling fair demands for higher minimum wages. Policy measures are needed against health businesses that do not spend any money to protect their profits. Will Prime Minister Solberg be in favour of a requirement that the pay and working conditions of commercial health establishments operating on government grants cannot be worse than those of the public authorities? It may be decided politically by decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e708	First of all, I believe that as politicians, we should not go into the parties' file and how they argue about different issues, and what is consensus and disagreement. I respect the fact that the parties are negotiating, that there is a negotiated earlier agreement in which one has now wanted to make changes, in the way it is designed. It's a legal conflict. The active substances on both sides are strike and the possibility of lockout, respectively. These are legal instruments in that type of labour conflict from both parties. We think it's sad that we end up having to use compulsory pay terms in such cases. Then I believe that employers must have the opportunity to negotiate their wages with their employees, including in companies offering public tenders. It would be unnatural if you didn't have an opportunity to have wage negotiations in that type of company.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e715	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e721	In the class struggle on Monday, one could read about a barber trust option that feels she's wrong to resign, as an illegal reaction to the work as a trust candidate. I have heard similar stories from other sectors, and I have also raised the corresponding questions with the Prime Minister in the past. Unfortunately, it may seem that both being organised and being a candidate for trust in some parts of today’s working life are more difficult. This is a question that the Labour Party has been dealing with for a long time. We have therefore come up with proposals to improve the level of organisation, promote interpellation on the theme, and have contributed to the adoption of a call for proposals to be submitted to the government to improve the level of organisation. This was a plurality for 31 January this year. It's been ten months. So far, the government has not provided any new suggestions on how we can get the organizational degree up. For this reason, my question is simply: What are the suggestions made by the government over the last ten months that can help bring the level of organisation up?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e730	We will look at the issue of organisation and what measures can contribute to this. An important part of the work to create a better working life is of course, among other things. to ensure that we have good rules related to alerts. I agree with the representative that it must be clear that it is not acceptable to resign to those who are trusted for no cause, that is, without there being any other reason for it than to be trusted. Anyone can end up in a situation where the job is no longer there, but it is important to take care of those instruments and take care of them. I cannot go into any fundamental discussion about new measures. We look at measures, such as: Look at how we can help to strengthen the role of those elected to trust, but we haven't concluded in any of these areas yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e737	In the case of alerts, on which the Prime Minister is involved, he assumes that there is a follow-up to the alert selection and their recommendations. When it comes to the decision taken by Storting's plurality, to get new proposals to raise the level of organisation, it may be an independent run, unless it is such that the Prime Minister thinks that the follow-up to the alert selection itself is a response to the Storting's clear order. I would like to remind you that it is not optional to deliver on a plural decision. I am therefore very much looking forward to what new proposals the Prime Minister will present. And when it is that she – at present – doesn't want to go into exactly what it is, at least I hope the Prime Minister can say what time they're coming, since she's been happy to work on this for ten months now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e744	What is important to us is that we find good and targeted measures to increase the level of organisation that does not prevent people's freedom of choice from being organised or not. We look at it, but I can neither promise time nor concrete, because the government has not taken a decision on those questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e749	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e763	There will be one change in the set-up question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in the salap. The change was as follows: Question no. 1, from the representative Willfred Nordlund to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e775	This question, from the representative Willfred Nordlund to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e780	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Inhabitants in several places in the country are told that Telenor cuts their internet access via existing cable at short notice, as justified by the fact that maintenance and any repairs are too expensive. The alternative will be mobile broadband, which often provides poor and partly unaccessible, as well as often more expensive. Does the Council of State believe that lack of universal service on the Internet ensures that the whole country is able to participate in digitisation with good and reasonable telecommunications services?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e789	The government has a high priority for digitisation. Digitalisation is an important driver for the modernisation of Norway and of the public sector. We therefore need to facilitate the provision of robust mobile and broadband networks throughout the country. The expansion of broadband has shown good speed in recent years, including: Mobile networks are upgraded with larger broadband capacity as a result of the large-scale 4G deployment. Norwegian mobile networks are ranked as the fastest in the world. Fibre expansion is also speeding. Most of the development takes place under market conditions, but state and local authorities have contributed to areas where there is no commercial basis for development. The State scheme is managed by the National Communications Authority, Nkom. According to the latest coverage survey carried out on behalf of Nkom, the vast majority of households in Norway have a basic broadband offer in 2018. According to the study, only a few hundred households in Norway in 2018 cannot get broadband with 4 Mbit/s download. The urgency is enough for basic surfing on the Internet, e-commerce, e-mail, online banking, public services and access to learning platforms. For comparison, there are about 9 000 households available for 4 Mbit/s download in 2013. However, most people have far better networks than that. Although the coverage rate is partly based on theoretical calculations, this shows that there has been a positive trend in recent years. Telenor's process of disconnecting the copper network creates challenges for many places. The Department is therefore in dialogue with Telenor about that process. We understand that parts of this network have to be cleaned over time because the costs are too high. At the same time, it is important that the citizens affected are given a satisfactory alternative offer. Telenor has universal obligations for telephone services, so the company must ensure that the households affected by the renovation can still use telephone services via the mobile network. The vast majority of households affected by the renovation also have the possibility of mobile broadband. In many places, we have faster speed than broadband over the copper grid. In addition, the government in the 2019 budget has facilitated the early release of the 700 MHz band, which will provide better mobile broadband across the country through 5G. Some countries have assessed the introduction of universal service obligations on broadband. We have also evaluated it in Norway, the latest in connection with Report. Art. No. 27 for 2015–2016, where the majority also concluded that it was not the time to make that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e804	At the time the Council of State last took note: Yes, I am aware that the Digital Agenda was adopted by a unanimous increase in the previous period. It is positive that we have good coverage on mobile broadband and good access to high-speed broadband on average. The latter is still at 49 pst. in spread-built areas in Norway. However, the question here is whether the few in Norway who are deprived of access to the Internet via the copper cables mentioned above. Of course, it's also about velocity, and it's about basic velocity. Today, 4 Mbits/s is not something we expect people to be satisfied with, not for private use or in business terms, but we're going far with 30 many places. The problem — if we can call it that — is that these individuals are part of active communities and are engaged in nourishment and value creation that are important to many. Does the Council of State see challenges in maintaining residence in such areas, based on lack of the Internet?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e813	The answer to that is actually short and well-no, but I realize that we have a job to do to get broadband to more people. We have plans to do that. It's important to remember that the leading broadband developer to the people is not the state, it's commercial actors. That's why we've done several steps to free up capacity, which we've now done with the 700 MHz band. We have created a new digging order, which is important for municipalities to use, simply because it helps to reduce costs, which makes commercial expansion profitable in ever-new areas. We are also going through the means of development that we have from the state's side of the budgetary agreement, which was signed between the four parties yesterday, and which hopefully goes through in the Stortinget. This strengthens a budget for broadband expansion in 2019 with an additional 100 million. kr. It's probably a real discussion we should have, if we're going to focus it more on the so-called white spots in the web today, those who don't have broadband at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e820	Customers who have received a cut-off notice have also contacted the department. The answer refers to – as here – the broadband support scheme. As the Council of State points out, the grant has now increased from 100 million. NOK 200 million. kr – however, a piece away from half a billion. But the challenge is that even municipalities that have received grants through Nkom will not receive offers from commercial developers after public procurement. It takes a really long time to reach the goal. At the same time, the government is committed to contributing to the provision of a sufficiently good and forward-looking broadband service to all households and businesses throughout the country. We all end up talking about that, but in these cases it's talking about thousands of copies, not about tens of millions. What will the State Council make a concrete contribution towards Telenor for these individual customers, while we are waiting for acceptable Internet access for everyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e827	I think it's natural that I have that dialogue directly with Telenor, and I report to Stortinget about what the dialogue leads to. I'm busy getting lucky to give broadband more and more. So I actually gave a signal to the representative. We have to discuss whether to use more of the public funds that we want to spend on this, to actually seal the white spots on the map. We need private suppliers of this. That's the whole essence. It shows that, even if one believe that politics has guided everything, there is a dependence on the private sector. This is what we are going to try to solve for both individuals and businesses — including in the districts. We know there's a lot of value creation going on around Norway. We know that this is absolutely crucial if we're going to get more on digital platforms. That is why the government will give it priority in this respect as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e839	‘This represents a new world, something new that should be out across the country, said Health Minister Höie about Stangehilpa after the visit on 2 September 2017. Now the alarm goes because the County of Hedmark believes that stanchions do not ensure proper health care, cf. the Health and Care Services Act § 3-1, and does not write decisions under the Municipal Health and Care Services Act § 3-2, sixth paragraph, but works after the fourth paragraph without a decision. Will the Council of State propose changes to the law so that the Staff Aid can be maintained and the working method spread?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e852	First of all, I still stand by what I said on 2 September 2017. I believe that low-threshold services are an important contribution, not least to the creation of the patient’s healthcare service, which is based on just how to help people to master their lives. This type of service is often designed and organised in such a way that no reference is needed. It's short or no waiting time, the offer is often free, and it's just about what's important to master your life. This lowers the contact threshold. Where, in some cases, the law requires a decision to be taken, it is in particular in order to ensure legal certainty and patient and user rights. The advantage of a written decision is that it makes it clear to the individual what kind of service he or she has been offered and what assessments are the basis for this. Of course, this is also a decision that one has the opportunity to complain about. In my opinion, today's legislation balances the freedom of each municipality to organise the service provision according to local circumstances and needs on the one hand, and the need for the proper care and care of patients' and users' rights on the other. I am very pleased that many municipalities have chosen to organise parts of their services as low-threshold services. Low thresholds for visiting health and care services may be essential for people who refuse to make contact for different reasons to do so. In order to clarify how parts of health legislation are to be practised at lowthreshold facilities, the Ministry sent out a circular in June 2017 — also at that time in the light of problems related to Stågehelpa — which specifically referred to the rules for diagnosis and documentation: circular I-4/2017. However, the question put by the representative Andersen illustrates that there may also be a lack of clarity as to when low-threshold services are to be decided upon. I therefore think it would be wise if the municipality sent an enquiry to the Ministry of Health and Health to get a clarification about this legislation and perhaps to clarify some of the issues that have caused concern in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e863	I would like to thank you for your answer and for the fact that this is a way of working that should be broken out, and not limited. I will definitely take with me the answer that is given, that the municipality should contact the ministry, because it is very important that we get more such low-threshold services. When we go to the doctor, there is no decision – we get prescription and treatment without it. That's the way they work. I also think it is necessary to look at the practice of the different statesmen, because here the State has interpreted a law to limit the working method of Stangehelpa. It cannot be interpreted differently from that of the county, so I hope we can follow this case up, so that we can ensure that such offers can continue and must not change their character, so that they lose the benefits that the council pointed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e870	The representative of Andersen is entitled to: issues related to diagnosis and documentation, which was the last issue, caused some concerns in several municipalities, which were sometimes also used as arguments against establishing that type of offer. That was also the reason why we chose to make it circular, because from the department we felt that it wasn't really the law that was the problem, but if the law is interpreted differently, it's to send out circulars one of the tools we can use, so that one gets clear of any misunderstandings. I think it would be very nice if the Stange municipality now raises this issue to us, from the point of view of the municipality, and then we have to consider how we should follow it up afterwards if this arises as a problem elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e875	I am very pleased with the attitude of the Minister of Health in this matter. There are many municipalities that have been visiting Stange, and that want to work in the same low threshold as they do. There are no restrictions on the service – all those making contact get help. There's a very positive atmosphere around this. The Council of State knows that I and SV are very concerned that there should be legal certainty and opportunities for those who need a decision and the security that comes with it. So it's important that you get a proper interpretation of the law and a proper balance here, but there's no doubt that this way of working on provides more help at a low threshold, and that's important. SV promotes proposals for a greater commitment to low-threshold mental health care in municipalities, so it is important for us that the law and regulation do not prevent this way of working in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e882	I fully agree with that, and I am always open to change the legislation if it turns out that the law is the problem. But in some cases it turns out that the law is not the problem, but the practice or interpretation of it. Hopefully we will have that opportunity to go into it and get a concrete assessment of this matter. I also fully agree that we need more offers of this type to be made. The government is now working on an escalation plan for children and young people’s mental health. Not least in the case of children and young people, it is very important to have offers on which there is a low threshold, and where one can get help without necessarily having to be in a situation where, for example: must have a diagnosis to get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e892	«In Health Bergen, seriously mentally ill people must lie in the hall. In October, the hospital had a covering of 108 pst. The number of corridors has never been higher. The situation is heavy, both for patients and staff, cf. Official Journal of the European Union 15 November 2018. The director of the clinic is concerned about the increased pressure in the heavier part of mental health protection. Can the Council of State do something about what the government is doing to strengthen the capacity of general psychiatry, and what government is doing to achieve the Golden Rule?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e899	Being sick and lying on the corridor is an unworthy situation for the patient, and it also prevents good quality of treatment. I have therefore demanded that they should not be corridor Asians. This is a demanding goal, but in the interests of the patient it is necessary to make such a requirement. In 2018, psychiatric clinics in Health Bergen use one to two corridors every day for patients admitted to the short-term department. Health West has stressed to the ministry that this is an undesirable situation. The health undertaking informs that Health Bergen is now planning concrete measures to eliminate the use of corridors. This will include interventions both in the division of mental health protection and in private non-profit institutions in the field of mental health protection, in particular Bethany DPS and Solli DPS in Bergen. Better interaction between mental health protection and the drug sector and between hospitals and district psychiatric centres and better use of psychiatric emergency services are among the areas of intervention. The Golden Rule will also be continued in 2019. The interim reporting on the Golden Rule shows that Health West is in line with the rule of mental health protection for adults in terms of costs and waiting times, but not in terms of outpatient consultations. Health West reports that they will contribute to an additional strengthening of the budget for mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment in 2019. I have noticed that more measures are being put in place in relation to both the corridors and the priority rule, and of course I expect these management objectives to be achieved. We are now working on the 2019 mission document and will also look at the tools to be used to ensure that the Golden Rule is complied with. I am convinced that one of the tools that can contribute to this is the introduction of the packaging processes in the field of drugs and mental health, which we start with the introduction of 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e910	The SAMDATA report shows that from 2013 to 2017, the cost growth in the somatic area has been 10 pst., but only 2 pst. in mental health protection. This indicates that the Golden Rule has no effect. So one is far from the goal that the Council of State has stated. The director of the hospital at Sandviken has stated that one is concerned about the increased pressure in the heavier part of mental health protection, and indicates that the reason is, among other things, may be altered in some way. There may also be several refugees, seasonal variations and the new rules of coercion. Less coercion to medication may result in one being medicated later and thus worse when one is admitted than one would otherwise have been. This is not what I'm saying, but the clinic director. I thought it was a signal that we should take seriously. I believe that interventions have been implemented in Haukeland, in Health Bergen, and it seemed good, but there may be similar situations elsewhere in mental health protection. So my question is, will the Council of State take seriously and look at the new rules of coercion and what they want to say, and will the Council of State get a review of the whole of mental health protection in terms of capacity and corridors?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e917	Firstly, I share many of the concerns raised by the representative, so I am also clear to the health regions that I expect them to follow the golden rule. I'm not satisfied with the follow-up on mental health, but I see that as the figures now look for 2018, there is a better one than in 2017, although I don't think it will be fully met in 2018. Among other things, Health West is ready to reach the rule in terms of the element on costs, in 2018, but there will still be a need for strong follow-up in this area. Therefore, this is a regular theme in my meetings with the health regions and also with the hospital directors, and it will be the main subject of the next national health and health plan to get an overall approach to this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e922	Will the Council of State ensure a full review of all emergency items and short-term items in mental health protection to look at this with Corridor Asians? I didn't hear the council respond, so I'd like to hear about it. I would also like to show that the head of the Sandviken Hospital Control Commission, Paal-Henrich Berle, told Bergen's Official Journal that he is approaching a tolerance limit. Here we have a statement from both the clinic director and the control committee that this is quite on the verge. At the same time, I hear in debates here in Stortinget that the Council of State defends a further reduction of bed capacity in psychiatry. Based on this case, will the Council of State reconsider what he said earlier about the continuation of the reduction of bedtime capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e929	In the case of corridor Asians, it is now introduced as a national requirement not to have corridor Asians. That's why Corridor Asiates are measured in all departments, so we get regular reports about that. With regard to the issue of the new rules on coercion, I believe – and I do not believe that the representative disagrees – that this was a correct change, but of course the service provision has to be adapted to it. The answer to that challenge is not to go back and force people who are consenting. Then it is clear, as the representative points out, that it is important that we have a good and safe offer for those patients who have the greatest challenges, and that many of them will need a long-term offer within the specialised healthcare system, but that does not mean that there are still people who could have a better offer in the municipality, who are admitted to the specialist healthcare service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e941	‘If a public establishment is a contractor and there is a strike by the subcontractor, and the supplier uses personnel who signed out of the connection only one day before the conflict started, and in addition to new personnel and hire personnel – my councillor there is a strike break, what would the council expect of a public establishment that is a contractor in such a situation, and what, in that case, is the agent of the trade union council of the relevant department in relation to a supplier who has not respected the strike right?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e946	The government wants a clean and serious Norwegian working life. I would therefore like to start by saying that public enterprises have a special responsibility to contribute to this. Follow-up to public acquisitions includes, inter alia: an important part of the government’s strategy against the crime of working life. It is also clarified for the first time in 2018 in the ethos’ letters of allocation that they have a special responsibility to follow up their contracts. The question in this case relates to strike in a public supply business and various aspects of it. Strike is a legitimate instrument for social partners to promote economic and professional rights. In the case of strike breaking, this is not defined in Norwegian law or prohibited by Norwegian law. There are rules of the game between the social partners that draw up the limits of what is a breach of strike. Therefore, the question of whether there is a breach of strike in a specific case is initially a relationship between the parties to the conflict in question. Any disagreement between the parties as to whether or not the rules governing a strike have been broken must be resolved, if necessary, through the existing dispute resolution mechanisms in such cases. In the strictest sense, such questions may arise before the courts. The authorities contribute here with institutions that facilitate good cooperation and solutions, such as: Labour law. This is a specialised court dealing with legal disputes between social organisations about collective bargaining agreements, where issues such as this may arise. Contracting authorities must initially be able to assume that the parties to the contract comply with the rules of the labour market in the event of a conflict of conduct and that any disagreements are resolved by the institutions so provided. At the same time, the public should set a good example in promoting serious work, including: by requiring pay and working conditions in their contracts. There is a separate regulation on pay and working conditions in public contracts that all those who provide services of a certain extent to the public must comply with. This is an important element of the government’s work on serious issues in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e959	It is good to hear the Council of State tell us about the special responsibility of public services to contribute to an orderly working life, not least the special responsibility to follow up their contracts, and the Council of State points out that the public should lead by example. My question is then what responsibility the government council has as a college if an underlying authority uses a supplier who does not respect the striker's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e964	Much might suggest that the representative Tajik refers to a concrete example that I do not know the content or scope of. But as I said in my previous answer, the government is committed to combating labour-life crime and promoting serious conditions in Norwegian working life. It is also the background to the development of a strategy against crime at work with the social partners. We presented it in 2015, it was revised, a new one was presented in 2017, and we are now sitting with the social partners to promote a new strategy in 2019. It is the first time – now, in 2018 – that we clearly write in the letters of assignment of state enterprises that they have a special responsibility to follow up their contracts in order to combat unprofessional conditions in the labour market. They must also ensure that the contracts are complied with. But as I say, it must also be assumed that the contracts that are concluded are followed, that the contractors follow the rules of the Norwegian working life. Insofar as they don't, you can actually cancel the contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e969	My question is formulated as a fundamental question. My question is not related to a specific example. These are the principal aspects of this I want to clarify. When the Council of State itself stresses the special responsibility it has for following up contracts, I am curious to see how this particular responsibility should be exercised when an underlying department uses a supplier who does not respect the striker's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e974	As I said in my first answer, to the extent this is not regulated. This is something that is discussed between the parties. There is also not always an agreement between the parties on what is to be regarded as a strike breaker, and it may also vary slightly from case to case. It must be decided in the specific case. However, when we now clearly write in the letters of allocation of our underlying agencies that they should follow up their contracts and report back on it, it is because we are committed to entering into a contract also means an obligation to follow up and ensure that the contract is actually followed. Then it can be said that if a contract is not followed – in part of the contracts it will be that you have to follow pay and working conditions for the industry in question – you either have the opportunity to cancel it, in the utmost consequence, or you can not enter into a new contract at the end of the contract. But we have, as I say, asked the agencies to report back on how they follow up their contracts, and then you have the opportunity to take the consequences of it if the contracts are not followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e984	«On Wednesday 14 November, I asked why farmers do not get full compensation for exceptional wolf attacks in the North East Valley. Council of State Nybø on behalf of the Council of State Elvesuen stressed that expenditure was not pre-authorised. There appears to be a logical lack of prediction of the cost of acute wolf attacks in pasture-prioritised areas before the extent of damage is known. In the opinion of the Council of State, grazing users should refrain from taking measures that limit the extent of harm and ensure animal welfare, such as: exceptional supervision and culling of sheep?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e991	It is true that the system of preventive measures implies that preventive assistance must be clarified in advance with Fylkesen. This ensures important considerations such as control of costs, that the costs are within the current budgetary framework and that the action has a preventive effect in line with the requirements of the scheme. However, the need to clarify in advance grants for preventive measures with County State does not mean that animal owners have to anticipate their costs of acute predatory attacks. The ordinary application period under the scheme is 15 January. However, the county continuously follows up acute damage situations, and there is no deadline here. The county has a guard telephone and can keep in touch with grazing users in acute damage situations. This means that, during a telephone conversation, oral commitments can be made for preventive measures and are within the current budgetary framework. If increased funds are needed, the County can contact the Environment Directorate or the Ministry of Climate and Environment. The Directorate and the Department have, following enquiries from Fylkesmannen in Hedmark, given increased appropriations for preventive measures in the north-east valley during the grazing season of the year. In practice, therefore, grazing and grazing users can easily contact the County in acute harm situations throughout the grazing season and quickly get commitments for preventive measures before they are implemented. I therefore believe that we have a flexible and good order. I would also like to emphasise that grazing users who have been killed or injured by predatory game will also have losses and costs reimbursed in accordance with the replacement regulation by the end of the year. In addition to compensation for loss prevention measures, the Province has already committed itself to cover under the prevention scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e1006	The Council of State, as a last resort, attaches great importance to budgetary control and predictability of expenditure. This is the country's need for predictability, but farmers also have a great need for predictability. What's happening now is that the farmers are carrying the extra financial burden with an excessive predatory pressure after the wolf attacks this summer. The peasants, like the state, and perhaps even more so, have a need to anticipate their expenses and not be subject to heavy financial burdens due to predator attacks. This applies to both those who have lost animals and those who have not lost animals but who have been on a pasture where you do not know which sheep has been taken and where everyone contributes to the search and injury reduction. If it's completely unproblematic, as the Council of State describes it, how can it be that there are still millions of dollars that have not been replaced for the farmers in the North East Valley after the attacks this summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e1011	We have two arrangements. There is compensation for loss and damage, which will be paid during the year, and then there is a subsidy for prevention measures. We have created as simple a system as possible, namely that only with a telephone call to the County can you decide the matter within a very short time. This can be done in minutes. There is also a readiness at the County Council during the grazing season, so that they are prepared for that situation. If there's an emergency situation with predators, we've created a system that's as simple as it can be done. However, it must be necessary to contact the State and get the proceedings there when preventive measures are to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e1016	It is clear that the Council of State does not want to listen to the farmers’ organisations and pasturage users who express clearly that they have not received adequate compensation for the expenses they have incurred. The consequence of the government not shooting more wolves and following up the predatory settlement and not providing full financial compensation is that grazing users will surrender. No one can live with the economic and mental burden of predator attacks on their herds year after year. The field will then be set aside, and important food production areas both for animal welfare and not least for climate will go out of production. The Government Party and the Government themselves believe that they are a climate-friendly government, but how can the Council of State really defend that the government's predatory policy and the lack of willingness to follow up the predatory settlement and pay compensation undermine the whole premise of our most environmentally friendly way of producing food, namely by using the land resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e1021	We have a two-part system. We have grazing priority areas, and we have predatory priority areas. We follow up the two predatory agreements from Stortinget, we follow the majority decision on wolves, and we follow the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act. And it's not like we don't have the facilities for a grazing industry in Norway. There are more animals grazing in Norway now than there have been in the past. But we also need an administration that takes care of the big predators. If we look at the extract from the wolf, it has probably not been taken out more wolf in Norway since the rescue in 1973 than has been done this year. We have to follow the decision on size, we have to follow the law, we have to have a live grazing, but we also have to have the big predators in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e1028	Then the ordinary question hour is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-21.ana.ud86e1042	There is no record available. Thus, today's map is finished. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
