ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e174	The representative Cecilie Myrseth, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e184	On behalf of the representatives Solfrid Lerbreck, Karin Andersen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to introduce an authorisation system for child protection educators and socionomists.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e189	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e194	I will, on behalf of Per Olaf Lundteigen, Willfred Nordlund, Siv Mossleth, Nils T. Bjørke and myself, make a proposal for a representative to prevent the centralisation of the office structure of the Health Economics Administration, Helfo, and a proposal from the representatives of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Per Olaf Lundteigen and myself to evaluate the reorganisation of the Archives and secure regional archives services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e199	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e204	On behalf of the representative Kjersti Toppe and myself, I would like to put forward proposals on the health risks of housing in old waste landfills.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e209	The representative Per Espen Stoknes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e214	On this my last day at Stortinget for this time, I would like to make a proposal on behalf of 400 million salmon and myself on a genuine environmental reform in the farming industry – while also thanking for good dialogue and cooperation with all parties in the last seven months, and with a desire for a brilliant summer. ‘I’ll be back!’ [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e220	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e240	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, 5 minutes of speaking time is proposed for the parliamentary leaders, 10 minutes for the Minister of Finance and 5 minutes for other members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be given a reply to the main speakers of the parties, parliamentary leaders and members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e253	The revised budget is just that – a revision of the budget adopted by the Stortinget last autumn. The development of the Norwegian economy shows how well the budget hit the situation of our country is actually in. Now we see that unemployment continues to go down. We see that growth continues to rise, and that more jobs are created across the country. At the same time, we see that high school implementation is increasing, health cows are getting shorter, and that housing queues are de facto gone. This shows that the government’s policy responds to many of the challenges that Norway faces and that many people experience in their everyday lives that need to be solved. In the meeting with the oil price drop that hit us in 2014 and 2015, the government through budgetary policy showed that good tools were available to deal with this. Norwegian policy has risen, and the Norwegian economy has risen, which after the setbacks is now characterised by optimism and solid growth throughout the country. Economic growth has not been higher in many years and unemployment has not been lower since 2009. In this revision of the budget, the main priorities are fixed within tax, knowledge, transport, health and a solid local economy, which is also continuing. This strengthens our well-being and contributes to the creation of more profitable jobs across the country, and we are preparing for a future where oil revenues become less important and where Norway is going to undergo a new transformation. After several years of increased use of oil money needed to compensate for the fall in oil revenue due to the fall in oil prices, the oil money use is now reduced by 5.6 billion in the revised budget. kr. The government's proposals for changes to the budget and to the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party show that this budgetary round is just that – a revision. We have now, as four common parties, set up the tenth budgetary unit together, with predictability, with safe governance and with a growth-creating policy for the good of the country. It is then that the results of the Norwegian economy, the predictability demanded both by industry and by families around the country, are not self-evident. It comes from safe governance, and it comes from the fact that there are four parties that are more concerned with finding solutions together than with running demonstration policies or canceling each other's press conferences or in other contexts. That is why the sensation in the debate we are going to have today is not the budgetary conciliation or the revision of the budget. It is the alternatives to the revised budget. It's very special that we have opposition parties that have the same incidence with completely different amounts. In particular, the Workers' Party and the Centre are implementing exactly the same measures by imposing VAT on online commerce below NOK 350. The working party says they're taking in 770 million. NOK, while the Center Party says it's going to cost 1 billion. kr. It is particularly important when the opposition is not even able to agree on how to cover up its policy on oversupply. What the Labour Party does in its alternative budget is to say all the changes that the majority parties make, all the reductions they make. And then you're going to be a little bit more involved, and then you're going to spend 770 million. If you do not have, as the Post says, it is not possible to take in, and as they say it is not possible to introduce it from 1 August, and then it is used on surrender policy without priorities – just to spend more money. This is how you get rid of the timbers in the Norwegian economy, when the most important thing is to have a little more, without being so very concerned about whether that money actually exists, whether it's realistic to pick them up, and how to do it. I have to say that seeing the alternative to the Labour Party in this debate and what we are going to vote on today shows a working party that has released the steering wheel on the left and sat in the back seat. It's actually not something I thought I should say, but the most realistic, alternatively revised budget from the opposition today comes from SV. At least they have a true and realistic invasion. The figures for the 350-kroner limit have been carefully reduced by today from the Post Office, which has been evaluated. The opposition is based on the fact that this amount is not limited to goods less than NOK 350. All online commerce is suddenly to disappear and all jobs are to be created in Norway. There's nothing to suggest. The Labour Party itself said in the debate we had on Monday, that they thought it was unrealistic to introduce this from 1 August this year. Today they propose it in Stortinget and cover the cost of money they believe they do not have. That's not how you run the country, and that's why it's very good that the consensus of the four bourgeois parties is adopted. I'm addressing proposal No. Seventy-six.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e270	The representative of Henrik Asheim has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e277	‘Nothing new under the sun’ in the rhetoric by the representative of Asheim and the right. This is the common line on over-the-counter policy. The problem is it's reversing the government party itself. In a survey in the Evening Post on 7 April, the representative Asheim is trying to revive the old conservative care for the billions. He attacks the sick pay, he wants more money, he wants higher car charges – because the bill doesn't go up, he says. But how does the representative actually feel that the calculation goes up in this revised budget, without a trace of these priorities that he himself calls for?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e282	First, if you're going to be in opposition, you have to turn off the autopilot from time to time. So this budget is cutting down on the use of oil money. This budget is the tightest budget that this government has put forward. And the reason is that Norway is going well. It's because more people come to work. Then we also show that we have a government that is holding back money when it is necessary and that compensates when it is necessary. When we had the oil price drop and the difficult situation in Norway, the Labour Party said that it was too little too late. What we're seeing now is that it was perfect at exactly the right time at the right level. So that's all reason to enjoy it. And we can discuss my suggestion in April, if that's the main argument of the Workers' Party against the revised national budget, but what I said there, which the Workers' Party should also be interested in, are the long-term projections of the Norwegian economy, and how we're also going to deal with increasing expenditure and a demographic situation that makes us need to think new in the welfare state as well. I have not seen the Labour Party take part in that debate very actively, and that is nothing new either.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e291	Asheim's wish for such a debate is in very sharp contrast to what is fasitating after nearly five years with this government: it's a government budget that's escalating. There is a record high use of oil money to smooth out all political conflicts between the cooperative parties. There's no trace of what Asheim wants and criticizes others for. Therefore, it is tempting to ask whether the leader of the financial committee has such little impact on his own if he really wants to raise such a debate, or whether, on the contrary, it is such that Right deliberately engages in double communication to pretend as if they are prioritizing, when the truth is that the party has become a master of public money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e296	I want to challenge everyone who hears this debate, whether they can ever remember seeing a working party politician in a local or a national newspaper or on TV saying that this is too much, we have to take down the money, here it is too much used for public welfare. I have not heard a single such attack, but I have heard the Workers' Party repeatedly calling for even a little more on all sorts of strange things. And today you put forward an alternatively revised national budget where you spend more money, but money on Monday you said you don't have. So you're accusing us of spending money – but the money we spend is the money we have. So we are cutting down on the use of oil money because we have a responsible budgetary policy. What you're doing is spending more money than us on everything, promising more to everyone, and a working party that gives hundreds of trillions of promises, but explaining with ten million dollars in deposits, doesn't challenge this government or the Right. You challenge the entire Norwegian model of society because you don't cover the expenses you promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e303	The President will recall that the speech is to be passed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e308	It was violent to hoove from the Right Spokesman. That the head of the financial committee should know very well is that there has been an explosive growth in online commerce. 62 B.C.E. kr of the online trade comes from foreign online shops, and there are over 130 million transactions, so it is a huge growth. Instead of worrying that some parties are at the 350-kroner limit, the chairman of the Finance Committee should be concerned about how this would turn out for Norwegian industry, for Norwegian value creation. The Ministry of Finance is unable to give a proper answer to the cost of this 350-kroner limit. It's an unwise policy, it's not thought, it was just to show some kind of popular action. Can the right defend the charging policy that it will be cheaper to run online if you sell from Sweden than from Norway? Is it wise long-term business policy when we see the growth we actually see in Norwegian online commerce?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e317	As chairman of the Financial Committee, I actually become quite offensive when I see that their proposals are not covered. What has been my point is – and there are two discussions here: one is to have the 350-kroner limit; we can discuss that afterwards. But just to take it first: the problem is that the opposition covers a number that they even now say is that the Ministry of Finance cannot explain. The problem is they're using budget money they don't have. It's very serious, and it should worry the entire financial committee, not just the head of the financial committee. So to the proposal on the 350-kroner limit. Today there has been a report by the Post itself. They also went out and said that it is impossible to make this measure as fast, it is going to be chaos – quote from the Post itself. And what they're referring to and establishing is that the numbers of Works, which the opposition also refers to in its comments – they will in particular bring out the numbers of Works, are based on all online commerce, not just products less than NOK 350. So my point is that you have to be at or at the 350-kroner limit, but you can't balance with money you don't have, and that's what the opposition has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e327	Asheim should read the full report to the Post, and he probably has, too, but he only picks out the quotations he thinks fit, because what's also in that report is that the online trade from foreign online shops is going to collapse if that limit is introduced. And the goal of the Center Party is very clear, because we want to strengthen that industry in Norway and think it is incredibly unwise to introduce a system that makes it possible to start a online store on the Swedish side, to avoid VAT, not to charge, but to start on the Norwegian side, to be punished. This was achieved by increasing the fees for the Norwegian food industry by over 80 pst. on chocolate and sugar and with more than 40 pst. in the case of non-alcoholic beverages, a combination is directly hostile to business. Can a Right-Responsible Fee Shop over 80 pst., which arrived within a month? Is that wise business policy? Does it give value or the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e334	I believe that Norwegian policy has been through significant evolution in recent years, and it is the Norwegian left side that is now concerned about the adverse effects of excessive taxes and charges. That's something that we've argued against over and over again. It's worth remembering what was the alternative to the budget we adopted last year. It was a budget where the Christian People's Party could go to the Workers' Party and introduce VAT on sugar, which had the exact same cost increase, and increased taxes by a place between 8 and 15 billion. kr. What we got was that we introduced a sugar levy, avoided the increase in VAT, reduced the overall level of taxes and taxes and phased out the machine tax. So if you are concerned about the level of taxes and taxes and what that means for Norwegian business, and I think we can share that, the representative Battle Violence Vedum and I, then you should vote for the government budgets, which lower the tax and tax burden, don't increase it – just as the representative does in his budgets, the Labour Party does, SV does, Red does, and MDG does.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e343	The representative Asheim gave a review of the various areas in which he believes that the budget is making a good deal of money. The representative believes that the budget is well placed on the economic situation of the country and had an estimate of different areas. But in that outreach, I was unable to hear a concern about the growing differences in Norway, where we see that the richest withdraw, while those who have the least remain. I would therefore like to ask the representative if he agrees that the figures show that the economic and social differences in Norway are increasing. Do you agree, and is it a goal of this government to reduce differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e350	Differences in Norway are small, fortunately, but if there is something about this government and the previous government has been concerned about — i.e. in the previous period and this one — it is precisely to ensure that the differences do not increase. And how do you do that? That's where we disagree, because you're very concerned about fighting wealth. Like those who succeed, you need to create jobs, create values. What we've launched is an inclusion tool, because it's the real difference between people in Norway: those who are out of work and those who are inside. Both working life itself and we politicians must ensure that more of those outside the labour market come into the labour market. What's the discussion around Difference Norway is very much about who we want to help. SV is most busy stopping those who become too rich. I think it's very important that we have a redistributive tax level, but it's so important that we make sure that those who are out of work actually come in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e357	That was an elucidating answer, because here the representative says that you are concerned that the differences do not increase. At that time, it might have been worth mentioning in the revised national budget that differences in Norway are increasing. Then this government should be more concerned with implementing policies that actually ensure that the differences do not increase. But I also hear that the representative does not answer the question whether it is an objective that the differences should go down from today's level. Differences in Norway have increased since the 1980s, and they have increased faster in recent years, during this government. That is why I repeat my question: is there a target for this government that differences in Norway should go down from today's level?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e364	The reason why it's a little bit difficult to answer that is because I think we're very divided about what increasing differences are. For example, we know that differences are increasing, or that there are more poor children in Norway, when immigration is increasing. Then the question is how to deal with it. On the one hand, we want a strict and fair immigration policy that means that we do not take in more than we can actually integrate. On the other hand, we must have a much more offensive integration policy that also demands those to be integrated. When we have an inclusion component, it's about people with disabilities as well as people with holes in the CV entering the workplace. It's far more important to raise them on the bottom, those that stand outside, than to constantly fight them on the top, with which it's going well. That's why I think we disagree a little bit. However, even now there is a separate case in the United Kingdom about differences in Norway. I think it's going to be a pretty good political debate between the sides of Norwegian policy on what differences are, what the major problems are, and how we include them. For this government it is lifting those that are at the bottom, for SV it seems to be knocking down on those that are at the top.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e373	First, I would like to thank Mr Asheim for relatively tough but constructive negotiations. Then I have a question related to the decline in birth rates. We know that one of the major challenges ahead is to get enough revenue to the state. Since there's a Right-Man standing there, I'm not going to talk about the important family policy reasons to bet on families, but about social economy. If you look at birth rates from 2009, it was 1.98 per woman. Last year it was at 1.62. Figures from the first quarter show that there is also a decrease in 2018. Then it is that to have enough hands in the care of the elderly or enough workers to pay the pension, we need more people in Norway. This can happen through increased immigration, one can get massive productivity growth or one can do something about birth rates. My question is: does the representative Asheim think that there is something you can do politically to help people get the children they want?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e382	I'm a right-wing man, but I don't see children as a part of national accounts. I was not born at Right House, although I have been there quite a lot. [[Laughter]] It is such that I share the concerns of the representative, Ropstad. The Minister for Children and Gender Equality also had a presentation on the weekend that was where she raised several discussions around it. We've done a job in my party, right, on how we can make sure that more women choose to have children early. One of the challenges is — and it’s hard to explain, or it’s really not that hard to explain — that many students choose not to have children. I think there are many in our generation – and those who come after us – who think that first you have to train, then you have to get a job, and then you might have to consider having a child after that. So looking at how the schemes can do that, for example. Students choose to have children while they are studying – I think those who are small children's families see that it's really an ideal time to have children – is one of the things that we from our party have promised. But I am absolutely sure that we are going to negotiate and discuss more with the Christian People's Party in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e393	The budget agreement is 100 million. kr more to the municipalities because of the standard of maintenance in kindergartens. But there is no certainty whatsoever that that money goes to the best of the children, and does not end up in the pockets of any welfare profitors. Now even the Right, at the State Council Jan Tore Sanner, has admitted, after the BDO report, that it is a problem that not all money goes to the best of the children, but disappears to private enrichment – a return that is on average three times higher than the return on the stock exchange. So I wonder why not the Right can support our good proposals that increased appropriations go to kindergartens that we are sure of giving money to the children's best, that is, municipal and ideal kindergartens, and not reward the kindergartens that have kept the staff low for a long time, and have taken great dividends for private enrichment instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e400	I myself have been a deputy councillor in the Ministry of Knowledge, and then I actually managed to order that report. So the report that Jan Tore Sanner has received is what I have ordered. I think the representative of Moxnes and I are never going to agree on the view of private kindergartens. The reason is that we are in order for private and ideals to also be able to contribute to our welfare society. I don't think it's possible to implement the welfare promises we're going to, without playing on the whole community instead of half. The decision we are now making says that the challenge of introducing a nursery standard – given that we still have a majority on the Stortinget saying that private kindergartens are part of our nursery services – is many small, private kindergartens located in low-manned municipalities. Their challenge is to support them two years later. What we're doing now is creating a grant scheme, which the Christian People's Party has fought in profitably, which means that even the private, small kindergartens – and the public kindergartens – can get more staff because the norm is introduced, but that they get the support later.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e409	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e415	The revised national budget of the year is, with few exceptions, exactly that – a revision. It continues a message that does not address the fact that differences between people are increasing, that the employment rate is falling, and that over the year too few jobs are created in Norway. Small differences between people create trust, increase productivity, and contribute to a greater understanding of the need for change that we as society meet. Stronger productivity growth is necessary in order to maintain our competitiveness and income development. We need to ensure that we have a sustainable public sector that provides services of such quality that they are competitive with private solutions. If the gap between public and private wealth becomes too large, the integration of the community will be challenged. We as a nation don't want to profit from that. In the last four years, oil money has increased much more than under the Stoltenberg government. Although we were in a global financial crisis, the increase was only 0.3 pst. i average. The Solberg government's certificate is an increase of 0.6 pst. And the oil crisis was no crisis, it just hit regionally, we often heard. We support that the government spends less oil money. But will it be? It requires clear priorities, and here we separate layers with the government in matters that are important to people most. The Labour Party listens to a number of trade unions, the NHO and the Working Party, all of whom believe that the free online trade is a threat to Norwegian jobs. To remove this tax haven on the way online trade is done in our neighbouring countries, and it gives revenue to the treasury, revenues we can use to expand the welfare where needed. In connection with the legislative proposal that was dealt with on Monday, we proposed to remove the access to duty-free imports. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority. Based on the calculations by Works – for the government will not – the tax will generate revenues of 2 billion. kr annually. The Labour Party will use these revenues to improve the services of most people. In the second half of the year it could mean services for 770 million. kr. Sealing tax holes that provide services for most people is not laxity, it makes sense. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is serious that more people will have to fight for a place of action for the harvest because the number of places of action is cut. We believe it is unreasonable for those who are now unemployed to have less opportunities for work training and to get out of work. Those who remain unemployed are likely to be further away from the ordinary labour market than many of those who have been in the unemployment queue in recent years. Work is helping to reduce differences between people. Work should be a very central part of the inclusion due, among other things. The representative Asheim was talking about right now. Cuts in response sites are a small but targeted tool to increase differences between people. We do not see any restrictions on those who have already received large tax credits. This contributes to the increase in differences and the weakening of confidence. The working party will use about 77 of the 770 million to close the tax gap in several action areas. We don't think it's idle. The activity growth in hospitals was alarmingly low in 2017 – far below what was planned. There's a reason to ask what's going on. 1.1 pst. lower activity growth testifies to poor control. What does that mean for patients? There is nothing to suggest that the need for hospital treatment goes down. Is this what is called efficiency improvement? In its proposal, the Labour Party proposes to increase the allocation to the hospitals by 250 million. kr. We also believe that something needs to be done to face the situation with the lack of firmness. The leader of the KS is clear about this. That is why we are proposing 20 million. kr more than the government of our alternative and finance increased health spending by removing the tax exemption on online commerce. It's not laxity to ensure people access to doctors and hospital services. In just two months' time, kindergartens shall have a new recruitment standard in place. It is not taken into account in municipal budgets, and private kindergartens will not be compensated for until two years. We are particularly concerned about the small ideal kindergartens. Two years without compensation could mean that many of them do not have the economy to continue. Then it will be the big commercial ones who take over the operation. There is a development The Labour Party will not support. A $200 million searchable pot. SEK is an emergency aid for the autumn, and from the new year part of the pot will be included in the municipal nursery provision framework, while part of the allocation for the small private will continue until their grants are paid on the basis of the new norm. We're going to use about 25 pst. the income from removing the tax exemption from online shopping in kindergartens, and I do not believe that parents experience such allocation as laxity. Climate change challenges in many areas. Just a few weeks ago, a flooded Gudbrand valley crest ran over its banks. Local communities have race and paced into daily life. The need for improvements and prevention is great, and we use VAT money to increase efforts. Eighty-five million. kr will mean that a little more road becomes racist, and that a few more areas do not allow themselves to be apprehensive to poor flood threats. Norway has taken on great commitments to meet the UN climate objectives. CO2 capture and storage is carried out in some projects around the world. In Norway, we have a unique opportunity to store CO2 in the North Sea. It can provide us with new jobs and income for a long time to come. The North Sea infrastructure can be used further, and it provides opportunities for the production of hydrogen based on Norwegian gas. Norway has leading technology environments in carbon capture, transport and storage. The Labour Party will ensure that we move forward with the two projects that are promising. In our proposal for a revised national budget, we are also funding increased efforts in this area. Also, the Home Office, Air Force and the conversion to Andøya could be increased if several had prioritised as the Workers' Party. The Prime Minister refers to the opposition as a lat because it is not a priority. We do not consider the proposals we promote to prioritise services to people most over tax havens where those who have the most, also get the most, as laxity. It is possible that government priorities are more populist in parts of the population, but the kids in kindergarten, the students in school, the teachers, those in need of hospital treatment, those who do not get into the labour market, would be better off with our priorities. Finally, the President sent a letter to the Committee on 28 May proposing, on behalf of the Presidency, to reduce the additional appropriations entered in the revised national budget from 379 million. NOK 263 million. kr related to the construction project here on Stortinget. We record that the President and the Presidency have not reached the majority. They maintain a higher allocation. They will probably say that this is not necessary, because the savings will be paid in 2019. Then it's exciting to hear why you're financing the deal by cutting the allocation to Campus Ås. Both are liquidity shifts. Also at Ås, of course, the expenses will come back. It's just the Workers' Party and the Center Party that have cut this presidency. After hearing the parties talk after we had the case for treatment here in the hall some time ago, it is quite strange. The Labour Party is also included in the proposal for appropriations for new investigations requested by the Presidency. We believe that it now needs to be focused on completing the work that is being done here on the Stortingen before starting new investigations. I would like to take up with this the proposals that we have promoted either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e455	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e462	The 350-kroner limit has received some attention from several in the debate so far, all the time the Labour Party takes in order not only to remove the popular limit, but also to remove it on 1 August. The problem with it is, of course, that some packages have already been ordered that will come. In Sweden we saw that people would not have the packages when they had to pay the fee, VAT and customs, and that it was a big problem for the Posten in Sweden. Why, then, the Workers' Party to propose the same thing, and create chaos for the Post in Norway, is a good question. And then there's the invading that they're adding, that they think the effects are going to be so big right away. Does this mean that the Labour Party believes that Norwegian consumers will continue to bribe cheap headphones from China even if they have to pay fees, VAT and customs duties? What's the reason why the Labour Party thinks it's realistic to have a saving of 770 million? kr already this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e467	It is true that we believe that we will receive revenue when we remove the tax exemption, just as the government that the representative Njåstad supports, believes that we will receive large revenues from both the bag tax and the airline seat fee in a very short time. It's a scheme that applies to packages with a value of over 350 kroner, so that you get income if you provide customs clearance below 350 kroner, we're absolutely sure. What's regrettable is that the government won't help us figure out what we're going to have to use other sources to figure this out. And we are absolutely sure that it will bring revenue to the treasury – it should just be missing. I assume that no 41,000 packages come from China every day to Norway with products people don't need. I assume that there will be reasons for doing that import, and that you will receive a tax and customs charge, I believe, to believe that there will still be income opportunities by removing the tax-free limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e472	It's obvious that the Labour Party has counted for itself and has not been helped to calculate, when they assume that people will steal exactly the same mass from China even if they have to pay NOK 140 in a fee, at the top of customs and VAT. It tells us a little about the views of the Labour Party in Norwegian consumers. It was interesting to register. So the Labour Party assumes in its calculation that people will poll the exact same small goods from China, even if they have to pay $140 plus VAT and customs duties, that this is the basis for the calculation used by the Labour Party's financial fraction to balance the budget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e477	We've used the available numbers that exist. It is a conservative estimate. It's in the lower range relative to the other batches input. And it is clear that if you remove the duty-free limit of 350 kroner, the import will not stop, it will be goods to toll. I think it is regrettable that we have not been helped to calculate those estimates in a better way, but we have based ourselves on numbers from those who have the shoe on and know where it prints – those who meet this daily, from the employers' association Works, which I also thought the Progress Party used to listen to when it came to business policy issues. So we choose to charge that fee because it will ensure Norwegian jobs. It will also, through it, be increased tax revenue, so the estimate that we have, we think is well sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e482	We can't completely drop this impact, because that's how the representative Aasrud in his post also framed everything she was going to spend on by just making that change. What I think is the concern about that, is that the Labour Party does not believe in it itself, because on Monday another representative from the Labour Party in this Chamber said this from the pulpit: ‘Of course, we also support the attitude to ask the government to investigate the removal of the tax exemption for consignments of goods from abroad with a value of less than NOK 350 and to return to Stortinget at the latest in connection with the state budget for 2019. Something earlier than it may be difficult to imagine." Then my question to the representative Aasrud is: what has changed from Monday to today, which means that it is now fully possible to implement it from 1 August, when you thought it was not possible on Monday?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e492	The representative of Asheim has completely misunderstood my comment. It was because we did not have a majority for the proposal we originally made, and then it was subsidiary voting for a proposal that was second best. So I have to say that I'm a little bit curious about the rhetoric that the Right put on here in this hall. It sounds like the only income level in the government budget is the right and the government parties decide. Fees such as the bag tax and the fare that were used to finance earlier settlements here in Stortinget were actually to be used, even if it was not determined, and even if you had to draw it. This is actually an easy-to-introduce charge, because there is a system for all imports over 350 kroner. That is why this is a far more realistic proposal than any of those in the Right Party and the Advance Party have been in this Chamber in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e499	If you suggest something that does not have a containment and as the Post Office says is not possible, it is serious. Because that means that the Workers' Party is financing promises with money they don't have. All the budgets we settle are settled by the sum of tax revenue and expenditure. Lots must then account for what money they take, and what money they spend. It is quite right that this government has increased the tax on, for example: to pollute, and then the tax on work has been lowered. It is a deliberate policy and a misguided policy. But what you're doing here is you're introducing something that even the Post says is not possible to introduce. Then you get worried, because the Labour Party then has a budget that doesn't go up. It's just to look at the colleague in SV, who has actually created a budget that goes up, because they're honest with what tax increases they're also proposing. So my question is: is this a new track from the Workers' Party, where budgets are put forward that do not go up, or do you think it is quite reasonable to introduce this fee from 1 August, against the Posten's own recommendations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e508	The president just has to remember that the speech has to go through the president. Therefore, I would suggest replacing the word ‘them’ with, for example, the word ‘them’. ‘Participating Party’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e513	The batch has also registered that the entry has previously been very concerned about all imports that cross the border through the free-of-charge border — doping agents, medicinal products, non-toxic products, etc. So we choose to listen to those statements from the Post. However, with regard to the content of the criticism that Asheim comes with, I just have to say that it is quite alarming, after the party has financed, year after year, additions to the state budget while they have been in government, with fees that have not been investigated, such as a seat tax, as a bag tax, and balanced their budgets with just that money. That is why the criticism that Asheim is now making is totally unreasonable. This is a system that's in place. It goes to do it for a government that went to the elections that they had the executive power. Here it only applies to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e521	One of the important achievements of the Christian People's Party in the budget conciliation this autumn was the introduction of flexible cash support, because we believe that families need the most flexibility possible. For some, it is desirable that children start in kindergarten a little earlier and you work a little less, but have a gradual start. Then we think that flexible cash support will be good, for example. that the child is in kindergarten for two days and you want to be at home for three days. What is the reason why the Workers' Party does not choose to go in for such flexibility, so that the families of children can have even greater freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e526	As the representative Ropstad has registered, we have not proposed any changes to the cash support in the revised national budget. It stands firm, because we believe it is important that families have predictability over the year in terms of cash support. We have said that we want to strengthen the appropriations for kindergartens in order to get an even better offer in kindergartens. We think that's good for the kids who'll be there. And then we have said that in the long term we want a waiting allowance, and that in the transition between having parental leave and having children in kindergarten, cash support will be sensible to use. But we believe that kindergartens are good for children, and we are convinced that we need to strengthen the allocations to kindergartens, so that we can get an even better kindergarten offer. That is why we are increasing the appropriations for kindergartens slightly more than the Ropstad has received in the negotiations with the government parties. We think that's important, so we have a good kindergarten offer that's a real alternative for the parents who want to use kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e533	In the line-up between committee leader Asheim and Aasrud, I hear Aasrud hammering a little on the plane seat fee and the bag fee and saying – and pointing out – that there was a completely wrong way to introduce them. Based on that rhetoric, it almost seems that because of the wrong way to do it, the Workers' Party can use a wrong method, which implicitly implies it. But my question that goes to Aasrud is, when the Post says in clear terms that this fee cannot be imposed from 1 August, and it is also assumed that it is not possible to have a deposit on the millions – the hundreds of millions – to which the Workers' Party adds, what is it actually the Workers' Party knows better than the Post that makes it possible for them to propose such an invasion anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e546	The difference between the fare and the bag tax is that there were completely new charges that were not investigated, there were no systems for that. As the representative Raja knows, there is a system today to charge VAT for goods above NOK 350. For a government that has had its executive power as its mantra, I am absolutely sure that it is possible to find solutions quickly to collect those charges. When it comes to Posten being concerned, I also think that the representative Raja should look at what the Posten said earlier about all the illegal things that come through the Post in the 350-kroner packages. It's cheating with amounts, it's cheating with content. That should worry too. I think that if you remove the limit, we will limit the import somewhat. But I'm very surprised that the government parties know exactly that this isn't going to give rise. Then you have knowledge that we can't access in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e555	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e560	I want to start by thanking committee leaders and case leaders for their good cooperation on the revision, both in committee work and – not least – through the negotiations with the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. I also want to thank Abid Q. Raja and Kjell Ingolf Rope Town for very good cooperation. While the rest of the population has taken the summer ahead and spent themselves out, we've been sitting in and revising an already good budget. Fortunately, the budget was so good that there was no need to spend all the time we had at our disposal for the negotiation of the revised. We were actually some one day before the deadline, and that's because Norway is being run very well. As many people have been in the past today, we had a well-adapted budget. Siv Jensen and the government have lost Norway through a demanding time, with oil falls and high immigration, and managed the country well. Now, fortunately, we are in a new phase where we see that optimism is on the way up and unemployment is on the way down. The asylum flow to Norway has rarely been lower than it is now, because Norway is well managed, and that's good control. We are also in a period when the phase-in of oil money is no longer at its level. This means that we are going to make major investments on the expenditure side, we are forced to make priorities on the income side or on the expenditure side of the budget. The party of progress has many footprints in the original state budget, but also in the revised one. I want to draw a couple of points. The machine tax is a matter that is very important to us. The fact that we are now reducing property taxes on machines gives cause for optimism in the business world. We see that investment comes to Norway because of it, and we see that it creates an optimism in itself. The party of progress is always occupied by the care of the elderly. Since the previous revision, we have received our own senior minister, the government has provided a separate message – lifelong – and we have made clear priorities in the care of the elderly both in the revision and in the original budget. Among other things, 700 more places are available for day-to-day care, which will provide an even better care for the elderly. We also expand the success of state-funded care for the elderly – so that even more municipalities can be offensive – and ensure that municipalities receive more money for the care of the elderly. I am also pleased that in the revised, as part of the Christian People's Party, we have avoided introducing a fee on shifts – the so-called death fee. It's a positive saying, seen with the eye of the Progress Party. I am also pleased that the government in revised has really invested in Svalbard. It may not have been communicated very clearly, but if you look at what is really the big bet in the revised, it's an offensive Svalbard package, one of which is. introduce 60 new dwellings which are necessary to be built due to racial hazards. There are also a number of other measures for the Svalbard community that are within the scope of this revision of the budget. We have also been some with the Christian People's Party about strengthening the kindergarten sector. As has been said, it is particularly targeted at the private kindergartens who suffer from the fact that they are located in municipalities that themselves have too low staffing. It will be a delay before the private kindergartens get to participate in the quality increase with additional staffing, because the municipalities have to mannify. That's why there's a targeted system that the Christian People's Party has fought in, which we're happy for. Unlike Red, we enjoy more money for kindergarten, because it benefits the children and the municipalities. We're not afraid to be a private helper. If we hadn't had the private kindergartens that helped make the nursery arrangement a great success, we wouldn't have seen that kindergarten capacity has been resolved. We'd never seen that without the private ones, so we honor private kindergartens and entrepreneurs who create jobs, more than talking them down in each context. Finally: Another big investment in revised, is within the environment, simply plastic in the sea. I think everyone in Norway was proud that our Prime Minister – the G7 in Canada – got to do something for what we're doing at sea. That we saw of aid money to fight the globalised problem of plastic in the sea is good. The party of progress is very proud of it, because it is a major challenge for both industry and others, and it has to be resolved in the global arena. The fact that we can think again about assistance to fight this is a very important effort that is in the process of being revised.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e579	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e584	After having experienced the old Party leader Carl I. Hagen for years rallies over the rule of action – he called it the “action mud rule” – it is almost fascinating to hear the current leader of the party and the country’s finance minister, but also the finance politicians of the Progress Party, if not now, then in other contexts, in text and talk to all of us about soberness: the oil fund will not grow so strongly in the future, and the space for action will be smaller. However, the message cannot have reached all the crickets and hooks yet, for the revised budget will be allocated 20 million on a proposal from the government. kr to the tax base in order to make an exception to the rule that merged municipalities should have a new municipality number. Four of the largest municipalities to be merged shall retain their old ones. Sees the representative Njåstad at 20 million. kr for four paragraphs is the use of taxpayers' money reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e591	It is nice to listen to both the previous and the current Leader of the Progress Party when it comes to responsible economic policy. We have always been concerned that oil money is to be used sensibly and responsibly, and that we should not spend more money than is natural for the Norwegian economy. The score is not how much money we spend, but how we use the money. We've put more emphasis on transportation than previous governments. When it comes to money use and municipal reform, I'm not going to say whether it makes sense or not when it comes to the municipal numbering challenge. I know that it may be problematic to change some things in connection with address registry and matriculation. If you can find smoother and more practical solutions to spend your taxpayers' money more efficiently, which means that you don't need to spend more money than is necessary to make the change needed to get the community reform done, then of course I'm a follower of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e598	We hope then that we will think more thoroughly through similar proposals in the coming years, because we all agree that the scope for action in budgetary policy is getting tighter, and then the question is: What will the Progress Party do less in the coming years? What will be the footprint of the Progress Party in that way? Is it that you want to add tax relief to those who don't need it, or is there less money for well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e603	The questioner now illustrates that you view tax squares as something that you give. We don't think of it that way that the Storting gives tax credits. We view it as taking a little less money, and the money that we no longer take, of course, is used to create values, new tax revenues, activity and jobs. Well, that's the whole difference between the Workers' Party and the Progress Party: We believe that by giving tax credits, those who get to keep more of their own money will make them available in a way that creates activity in the economy. In this way, we secure growth and the foundation for a well-being society. But of course we have to look at the bearer forces of them, and one area where we also separate teams is that we want a responsible immigration policy, which means that we do not accept more than we can integrate. The Labour Party has a policy to take in as many as possible, and then you get to pay what it costs afterwards. Here you can find more keys to the Progress Party and better fit the taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e609	In the revised national budget, a proposal for a new tax scheme for non-resident workers has been submitted by the majority, one of which may choose to apply to a gross tax scheme without deduction. It is an optional scheme in which the individual foreign employee can choose what gives the lowest tax for himself — a privilege that Norwegian workers do not have. Let's imagine an example from a Norwegian construction site where "Ola" and "Yarek" work. Both have NOK 550 000 in income and standard deduction. Ola gets stuck with the treasure he has today, while Jarek gets approx. 10 000 kroner less in taxes. What is the logic of subsidising foreign workers in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e614	If a person is thinking about the work place with which the Central Party illustrates this point, it is already skeptical, for one has different deductions for foreign workers in short-term employment in Norway than one has for Norwegian workers. So already today, and also under the red-green government, this was skeptical. What we're trying to do - this is something the government has been listening to - is to create a standard rule for those who don't go over a certain point for income, where you can choose whether to set a fixed rate. The government had a range of 22 to 25 on a listener, and chose to sit on the highest rate. The idea is to make things easier and to make sure that people choose that scheme rather than something that is more bureaucratic and more difficult. The idea is not to discriminate, but it is already the practice today. Here we try to soften and make things easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e619	It might have been tempting to ask the representative to clarify the difference between entrepreneurs in the kindergarten sector and the private kindergarten owners who have taken a billion out of their kindergarten group. But I really thought I'd go into the differences in the revised budgets, because there's been a lot of discussion about it -- the difference between the government's proposal and the opposition's. One of the most visible examples of the differences is the involvement of the police, for both the SV, the Workers' Party and the Central Party have put in extra appropriations to invest in the police, especially related to the challenges we are now seeing in Oslo East and Oslo South. My question is really whether the representative Njåstad is satisfied with the efforts of his government to combat gang and youth crime in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e626	The representative is very pleased with the government's commitment to the police, and I am particularly pleased that the cooperation party at Stortinget strengthened the effort further in the state budget for 2018, so that we can assign anyone who comes out of the 2018 coal to the police. It's true, as the questioner says, that one more bets on lending some money to the police in the revised, but the same parties were not involved in the bet we made in the state budget, where we put off the big money to add. It's good enough for the police to be able to hire people in the fall. The police need the money in the government budget if you're going to make additions in the middle of the year, it's not enough to bring the money when you read in the newspapers that it's a challenge. We're making a lot of money to recruit more policemen. We're approaching 2 percent within the police coverage per thousand inhabitants. I am very comfortable and satisfied with that commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e631	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Njåstad, for good cooperation and constructive negotiations. When we presented the budget agreement, I noticed that the representative Njåstad said that a good budget has improved. I would strongly argue that the Christian People's Party was very involved in the fact that there was a good budget in the harvest, and that there was a better budget now. But can the representative clarify what he thought did well, and what does he think does better?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e638	It's true that I said that. It is primarily that we were able to find some money that made us, among other things. be able to invest more in kindergartens, and we could also remove the death fee – which is good Progress Party cases and Christian People's Party cases – which meant that a very good budget was even better. It's also very nice that we can revise the budget without having any discussion about how to cover it up. I hope it is for the inspiration of the Christian People's Party for the next fall, that one then uses this template – that we do a good budget better instead of ending up with the implications becoming the big conversation theme afterwards. I hope this was a great inspiration for the representative of Ropstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e645	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e650	It is fascinating to listen to the spokesman of the Progress Party, who is going to promise that the big winner of the budget negotiations is that the Progress Party on the Stortinget together with the Christian People's Party was able to stop a fee that Sylvi Listhaug, as Minister of Justice, proposed. If it is the new victory strategy for the Progress Party, that the government is proposing stupid measures that are subsequently stopped in the Storting, it is a new parliamentary method, for the death penalty is actually three Progress Party states councils that have fought for. But fortunately, finally, Stortinget said no to that kind of fee. What is quite incredible in the revised national budget is what is at stake in defence, for once again it is not clear to conclude in defence policy. In fact, two years ago, in the long-term plan, defence policy had to be concluded. Then the land force – the Army and the Home Office – was put at risk, and said that it was to be returned to a land estate of its own. Then you came back to it last autumn. It was not possible to conclude last autumn, to which important decisions were put at risk in spring, to the revised national budget. But what happened then? Well, you can't conclude here either, you put it back to the government budget for the autumn. Then over two years have passed since you should have had a long-term plan for the Army and the Home Office, and you have not yet concluded. This is an extremely blatant way of dealing with the country’s preparedness, and it is less than a year and a half before the government is to resubmit a long-term plan without having adopted the previous one. Something like that has never happened before in the case of Norwegian defence policy, that one cannot conclude on the most important things. In our revised national budget, we are very clear. We believe that it is absolutely essential to have a good helicopter readiness in the north. We believe it is irresponsible for the government to say, that the police will no longer be able to have assistance from helicopters if there is a crisis in North Norway. That's the government's answer. We believe that it is irresponsible for the government that they do not strengthen Home Protection, when the Riksrevision is as clear as they are that the Home Protection system is not able to solve its basic tasks in terms of object protection today. That's why we're adding more money to the Home Office, not the starvation that the government is doing. That's why we're also strengthening the Army, and we're adding up to an investment plan to invest in tanks. Norway as a country needs a well-functioning land power; we need a capacity to take care of our own security and our own preparedness. That's why it's irresponsible what the government does in terms of defence. We also strengthen the police with over 100 million dollars. kr. We see the crisis we have here in Oslo. More resources are needed. We see how central police officers in Oslo criticise the so-called near-police reform, the police reform, how it has weakened the operational capacity of the police in this city, and we experience the same throughout Norway when traveling around, that there are major challenges for the police to solve basic emergency tasks. That's why we're raising 100 million. kr there. Unfortunately, the revised national budget goes into a familiar pattern in another area as well, because the government says that it wants to reduce the number of places to fit in Norway, with about 80 places. And it's not just in small places, it's also cities like Kongsberg that are no longer supposed to have passport offices – then you have to go to the Drammen. People are talking about strengthening the police through a close police reform, but what is happening in practice is that there are going to be worse services near people, there will be more bureaucracy. The growth we've seen in the police that's the biggest has been in the Police Directorate, a completely wrong priority from today's government. Centralization had I waited with the Progress Party and the Right in the government offices. But what I had not expected is the charging policy that we now see. With Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance, the fees in Norway have increased by an average of almost 4 million. Every day, $6,600 million. kr more in the fees now than it was when the Progress Party entered the government offices. They have pursued a charging policy that is completely irresponsible for Norwegian industry and for most people. That's why we have a different charging policy. We do not have the increase in the chocolate and sugar levy and non-alcoholic beverages to which the government adds, which affects Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs, and we have a completely different distribution profile. For the problem of taxes, it affects everyone, whether you have high income or low income, and it is fundamentally unsocial. It is financed more and more of the state's revenue through fees and charges, and it has been a main line as long as the Progress Party has had power, for example. Ketil Solvik-Olsen, who has become the record minister in withdrawing money into parking fees from Norwegian commuters. It's a pattern. In our approach, there are lower taxes, there are lower fuel taxes, and it is a policy adapted to the whole of Norway and adapted to people with both low and high incomes. I'm going to bring up the Central Party proposal in the setting that's not already taken up, the ones that we're alone about, and the ones that we're together with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e669	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum then brought up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e676	The representative Slagsvold Vedum and the Central Party are trying to act as the defence party and accusing the government of building down the Defense and Home Protection and underfunding the long-term plan. It is worth reminding the representative, Mr. Slagsvold Vedum, of the status of the Norwegian Defence Force after eight red-green years: a delay of 2.5 billion. kr for maintenance and spare parts, empty emergency stores, empty ammunition warehouses, important defence facilities which were leased to Russian interests before it was sold, the frigates were docked at Håkonsværrhet, the construction of several Home Guard districts and reduced the scope of practice and training. The centre party will maintain several bases, including: Andøya. At the same time, we know that our old P-3 Orion aircraft are flying overtime. The Central Party has not put money into its own long-term plan for new surveillance aircraft. Does the Central Party believe that it is responsible for preparedness, and that we no longer need to monitor the northern areas that we have done before?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e683	If there's something we're very concerned about, it's the preparedness across the country, with special emphasis on North Norway, where there are major security challenges. That's why this line is a little surprising, because the only concrete thing that comes from the government in the revised national budget is a weakening of preparedness. It stands straight out and is liberating honestly, that in the future can, for example, the police no longer rely on assistance from the Bell helicopters. This is a quote that can be found in the revised national budget. There is no strengthening of preparedness in North Norway in the budget of the Progress Party and the Right, but the opposite, and that is what we think is fundamentally unwise. If a traveler travels to the environment on Andøya now, one sees there's a huge crisis there, they're soon unable to solve their problems just because there's so much disintegration of people. The right-hand process has started, so now we're really, really deep down on surveillance planes, and therefore American aircraft come in instead. It's the results of the Right Policy that are now creating the preparedness crisis we see in important parts of Defence in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e691	The representative did not answer my question. The Central Party believes that it is a good signal to our allies and NATO that we should not maintain the maritime surveillance capacity, the anti-submarine capability. You have to run a base, but you don't have planes there. Shouldn't there be NATO in the north anymore to take care of security on behalf of ourselves and our allies? We have to have material if we're going to be able to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e696	I would like to invite Agdestein up to Andøya to talk to those who actually wear the uniform and work on maritime surveillance planes, and ask them if they believe the strategy of the Center Party in Orion, new surveillance aircraft and base has been the best strategy, or if they think the Right Strategy has been the best strategy. Then Agdestein would notice that everyone who does the job every two days believes that the central party line and the central party predictability had been the wiser line, which had made them have a better capacity now, and also had a wiser phase-in over time. The problem now is that you should both replace the base and have new capacities at the same time, and you cannot solve the job here and now. We have to make sure that we have the opportunity to solve this problem all the time in an emergency situation, especially in North Norway. That's not happening right now. Everyone who wears the uniform is very disagreeable in the conclusion that the Right has drawn: to put down Andy Island and move things to Evenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e703	I see that the Central Party in its alternative budget is proposing a 75-million increase in child-restraint. kr, a significant investment. In principle, it may seem like a sympathetic increase. My question to the center party leader is: instead of using these 75 million. If the aim was to combat child poverty or to give more to low-income families, would it not be more sensible to differentiate child benefit from the income of the families, so that the families with the lowest income received the most in child welfare, and that those who already have large millions of income did not receive the same increase as a flat increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e708	At first, I think Abid Q. Raja was a little tired with increasing child's health. It's actually a pretty careful increase, but at least it's a slight increase in the right direction. To the principal Raja, we in the Center Party think it's very wise to have universal solutions that meet everyone, and that we use redistribution through the tax bill. If we go for the model Abid Q. Raja now calls for, for those with low incomes it will be so called higher and higher marginal tax because you lose different cash benefits. I think it's wiser that everyone gets – Kjell Inge Smoking also gets that thousand-dollar, zero problem if he has children at that age – but that we take in tax incomes through the fact that people have high or low incomes. Then we have an unbureaucratic, simple system that hits everyone, and we're dealing with redistribution policies, not least through the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e715	For the whole year, the representative Schlagsvold Vedum has repeated in auto-mode the differences between him and the Centre in the increase in the sugar and chocolate fees. I think he's about to repeat it as often as we've heard the Central Party's health policy spokesman talk about how important it is for candy and shower to be more expensive. For us who are outside the Center Party's internal discussions, this seems a bit strange. I would like to ask the representative who in the Central Party we are going to listen to to to know what is the Central Party's policy? Is it the representative of the Slagsvold Vedum, or is it the Central Party's health policy spokesman who represents the Central Party's view on what fee we are going to have on candy and chocolate? How much more expensive does the Centre Party believe that a milk chocolate should become in order to counterbalance the objectives of the Centre Party for other candy products to become more reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e720	If you're reading the Center Party program, you'll see that we're very clear that fees should also be used to promote public health. There has actually been a consensus in the Storting to use taxes also in the context of public health. With regard to the specific chocolate and sugar levy and the levy on non-alcoholic beverages, it is only possible to read the proposal of the Centre Party in the Stortinget. We have repeatedly opposed those fees. We have believed that they hit the Norwegian food industry heavily, that it weakens Norwegian jobs, and that it is a direct subsidisation of Swedish industry and Swedish jobs. We believe that this is an unwise policy, because in Norway we politicians must pursue a policy that creates valuable jobs in Norway and not just introduce the kind of symbolic fees. Then it is this amazing with this tax shock of over 80 p.m., which the Advance Party stood for before Christmas, that product such as. Nugetti, who has a lot of sugar, got a zero fee increase, while a product like Farris with glue got a full fee increase. Calling that fee increase for a public health bet is wrong, because the fee doesn't make.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e729	Then I understand that the Senterpartiet believes that the sugar and chocolate fees have had undesirable consequences. Not only do I understand, but I also agree. I believe that we should be careful to use high charges as a tool to control people's trade and consumption patterns. But I'm not so sure that taxes and taxes actually worry the Center Party as much as it worries me and the Advance Party. We can take, for example: property taxes, which affect people most and most of all those with low incomes and high debt. It doesn't seem to be the center party we're about to remove. Is it understood that the Centre Party has generally been engaged in reducing taxes and taxes, or is this limited to the chocolate and sugar levy? What other fees does the Centre Party consider to be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e734	We are very concerned about what is happening in the tax policy that we have had tax cuts that have gone to a few, and the tax increases that have gone to the many, because taxes are paid if you make 300000 kroner or 2,000,000 kroner. When the representative asks about a concrete fee, in the Central Party in our revised national budget, we want to return to the same level of fuel charges as when Kristin Halvorsen was in government. It is after Siv Jensen got into the government, that the fuel charges have become too high. That's why we have an alternative where we put the fee back and forth at the red-green level, because we think the level at which the Progress Party and the Right have settled is unwise. Erna Solberg told me that the Progress Party and the Right increased the fees more in one year than what happened in eight red-green years. We didn't, because we were concerned with both social distribution and geographical distribution, while the Progress Party has been willing to increase the fees time and time again, the charges that affect most people, people with low incomes and people who often live in a place where they don't have alternatives like buses, trams or other public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e739	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e744	The debate on the revised budget is a good opportunity to see the whole of the policy. We might do that a little too rarely in this room, because in the middle of discussions about the use of electric motor in water, alcolocks, school gods and name-exchanges, it's easy to ignore the big picture, which direction the country is heading towards, what opportunities and challenges lie ahead of us. Even I think we're here for people to live a good life and for the future to be better than today. People have to be sure that they have a good future, with work, home and freedom to live the life they want. It's a commitment that we have. Today, the opposite happens. The gap between poor and rich is increasing, and the older generations, we who are adults and now established, are pulling up the ladder after us. The most obvious example is climate change, which today’s government is completely incapable of meeting with measures that match the scale of the challenges. May was a record hot month. Never has it been measured so high temperatures in May. Young people today have also not experienced a month during their lives below normal temperature. One heat record peaks the other. The government's response is to provide a revised budget that approves the further expansion of the Snorre oil field in the North Sea. Without further treatment or debate, the majority of the population say yes to increased emissions of 360 000 tonnes of CO 2 per year, emissions to young people today are absolutely unresponsive. In the revised report, there was doubts about the government’s willingness to implement carbon capture projects in Norway. I have to admit that I had a hope that the Left's entry into the government would give a greater impact on the climate, so that there were new measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions and not cut off the alcohol charges left could boast in the budgetary procedure. This spring we have also received figures showing that over 100,000 young people are growing up in poverty – 101,000 young people who do not get the same opportunities, who do not get the same start in life, who do not get the attention of the political debate they deserve. These figures may not have made any particular impression on the government, because the revised budget does not contain a single measure to combat child poverty. We must then conclude that the government is satisfied with its own efforts. They're asking if the kids are. Security for the future is also about having a job and housing. There is reason to recall the developments we have seen in so many other countries, where youth unemployment has stuck to a high level, and where the real wage for people is most still. In us, families with children have lower incomes than those without children. The labour market for young people is weakened and it is mainly young people who are stuck in temporary jobs and a less secure working life. Work and housing are interrelated. The differences between those on the inside and those on the outside of the housing market are increasing. Without a regular job, you do not get a loan, and more and more young people need help to get into the housing market. Those who come in are stuck with sky-high loans. We now have a generation of young people who have lost much of the freedom that the generations before us have fought for. Where my parents and their parents again could have almost taken it for granted that their kids were going to get better than themselves, it is not so sure anymore. Increasing differences are harmful to an entire generation — their view of the future, their opportunities and the productivity of the economy — but they are not at all mentioned in the revised national budget. We should have spent the big money to invest in the future, not to continue large tax credits to the richest and not to continue investing in the oil industry. We should have spent the money on an environmentally friendly future, on cutting greenhouse gas emissions and transforming the Norwegian economy, saving our oceans and getting rid of the plastic. We should have spent the money on maybe the most important thing there is, on our kids, on enough adults in kindergarten, at a school where all children are seen, and on the families of children who are struggling to get their ends to meet. We should have spent the money on getting young people to work, on a long-term initiative for Oslo east and south, on a good welfare in the municipalities throughout the country. We should have spent the money on reducing the differences – not on increasing them. Such a priority is a priority of the many and not the few. That is the priority SV proposes in its budget. With this I address the suggestions SV is part of, or we have submitted alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e764	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e772	The SV representative has spent time today talking about differences. We know that the biggest differences in Norway are between those who are inside and those who are out of work. In particular, we see this in this group that we can call the immigrant population. The problem with SV is that often all the measures that can make this group out of poverty – integration requirements, learning Norwegian and more stringent income requirements for family reunification. This is SV against. Another group that falls outside is the young unemployed. There we have an obligation to be in activity. That too is SV against. In terms of getting more young people into the housing market — well, where SV wants to introduce housing taxes, so that it is even more expensive to live. My question to SV is: if you want to fight poverty, why is it that the only measure you always come back to is to increase taxes in some form?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e777	The representative could not have read SV's alternative budgets, rather our programme. It's interesting that he chooses to talk about immigration. It is SV who have criticised this government for having cut the funds for language training. It is SV who have criticised this government for cutting down on Job, which is about getting women with a minority background into work. Then it doesn't keep coming up with words about making demands. We're to make demands, but we're also to give opportunities. This government has not. When it comes to the housing market, it's a huge challenge, not just for immigrants, but for young people today. It must be noted that this government is fully satisfied with the functioning of the housing market. They're obviously quite pleased that young people stay outside and see that those who get in are pulling away, but they're also happy that young people get stuck in debt traps and take on too high loans.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e784	SV often says that they are a party for the many, not for the few. The truth is that SV is a party too very few. Norway consists of more than the Wetvet, Grünerløkka and Oslo Centre, and all those living in the whole country should know that SV in its alternative state budgets proposes to increase taxes and charges violently. It's going to affect most people. The one-off fee shall be charged. Business cars are going to be more expensive. Both petrol and diesel are to be even more expensive and national property taxes are to be introduced. Overall, they will send an extra bill to Norwegian taxpayers of over 20 billion. kr in one year only. We can imagine what it would look like if SV had run for a whole magnification period. When will SV take on board that their policies are for the few, not for the many?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e789	It is this government that has a policy for the few and not for the many. It is good that the representative reminds us that the country consists of more than Oslo. Even I came from Kirkenes, where I grew up. I can gladly report that even in the churches, the common people who even drive in electric cars live. So the policy that the red-green government started by introducing zero-emission cars is spreading all around the country. This government has given billions in tax cuts to the richest. Time and again we get new numbers that show that it's the top percentages, the one-rich 0.1 percent, that's got hundreds of thousands of dollars in tax bills with this government, while most people are fed off with small money that's being re-attacked by increased taxes. With SV's plans, most people, those who make less than 600,000 dollars, which is what most people serve in Norway, will get more in tax relief than this government has given.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e796	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e801	When we adopted the state budget for 2018, we agreed on the following on the civil side: Norway is doing very well – much better – now. That is why this must be a tighter budget than in the previous crisis years. We have agreed that growth-enhancing measures must be given priority, and we agree that migration into the Norwegian economy requires a green shift, which must also be visible in budgetary priorities. We have now received a revised national budget that maintains these main lines and speeds up the green shift through carbon capture and storage and through efforts to combat marine pollution. This is, after all, the revision of the budget – this is not where the government is taking the interest in all new initiatives. It's coming to the harvest. In the audit, we clarify less use of oil money, and the budget impulse is on a modest 0.1 pst. In other words, the budget is neutral in the Norwegian economy. At the same time, it's not to overlook that this revision that the government presented looks different than previous revisions. For something new has happened. On Jeløya, the party leaders of the three blue-green parties revealed one of the main projects of the government, namely inclusion. We agree that inclusion should be given priority – in immigration, in the labour market and in social policy. It is good for the economy, but also for the individual, the community and the families in this country. Our objective is and must be that no one should be forced to outsiders. Then it is good that this government should give priority to creating new jobs for people with disabilities and for young people who are struggling to get their feet within the labour market. Inclusion is also about creating the good common meeting places, where our kids get to unfold in the same way, no matter what background they have. Therefore, it is appropriate that the government now makes it more reasonable to expand local sports facilities – an integration arena in front of some. The school is also such a meeting place, and both it and kindergartens get a boost through this revision. Three of the largest areas of activity in this budget are school, environment and jobs, showing that we have an expanded government that sees that there are fields of activity that more than other fields will define the future of our children. That we also have a government that, in an uncertain international climate, takes its share of the responsibility for increasing emergency aid appropriations to Yemen, Congo and the rowingya in the border country between Bangladesh and Myanmar, is something I am proud to highlight from the pulpit today. The left hand image of this revision is at all significant, and I am happy to be able to report back to our voters that we are now delivering in a number of areas that are important to them and to the country. However, this budget is not only a testimonial to the entry of the Left into the government, it is also proof that there is a good civil consensus on the budget and the economic policy of the country. The negotiations with the Christian People's Party have shown that several years of budgetary cooperation have brought us closer together. It's about respecting each other's priorities and ideological hindrances. The Christian People's Party has contributed with good priorities that strengthen the social-liberal profile of the budget and bet on the weakest, and that is both the government and the whole Left very pleased. We have conducted budgetary negotiations that have been marked by respect and understanding of each other's unique starting point. We have also agreed before the deadline, and that has not been entirely obvious, especially when we look at the last five years. We have managed to agree despite the fact that there have been tough and demanding negotiations. Towards the end, I would like to extend special thanks to the negotiators from the other parties, Henrik Asheim, Helge André Njåstad and not least Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, who have released this budget safely in port, and in particular to the representative Ropstad for having been a steadfast, principleal and at times pragmatic negotiator. At all – this is a new situation for the Left. We have been sitting on the other side, with the Christian People's Party, but we have managed the country together – these four parties. We find the best solutions on the blue-green side of Norwegian policy. This budgetary unit is proof of that. Then we get to hope that the Christian People's Party during the year or not so long after it also takes the step fully and participates in the government. With that, we might be able to help move the policy further towards the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e835	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e840	The left has been concerned with the relocation of state jobs – they have talked a lot about it at least. The Workers' Party is committed to creating new state jobs outside Oslo, and at least outside the big cities. In Mo in Rana, we have Norway's strongest collection environment. They are part of the tax system, and the decisions that lie around it have been taken in the budgets where the Left has been part of the majority of the Grand Duchy. When you were going to locate the Collection Division, you could choose between Mo in Rana, Oslo and Trondheim, and you chose to add the new state jobs to Trondheim. We're aware that it's not about moving all the jobs from Mo in Rana, but when the management element goes away, it's often the way that development takes place elsewhere. I wonder why the Left hasn't done a little bit more as they have said, and secured state jobs outside the largest cities when these have a great opportunity. We have made a proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e853	Well, the Left is very concerned that we're looking at this with state jobs out of the capital area, and we've actually done that to a significant extent within the big sessions we've had a civil majority. And we're going to keep doing that in the future. Then we've also been asked to look at other ways of saving public costs. For example, there is a significant amount of public jobs in the centre of Oslo, and so we spend a lot of dollars on expensive office rentals. I have arranged that, when these leases expire, you will see if you can also move these jobs out into the edge zone of Oslo, possibly into the new region that comes around Oslo, Viken. But to conclude the reasoning: we have further contributed to moving jobs out of the Central East region, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e862	The representative Raja is a member of the Presidency, who has sent a letter to the Financial Committee asking for the Financial Committee to reduce the additional appropriations for the overrun of the construction project from 379 million. NOK 263 million. kr for 2018. President Raja has not been able to see through his proposal to the Financial Committee member Raja. Can the representative explain why he does not agree with himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e868	We know the construction business very well, and it has a very long history. It's writing over several majorities and several presidencys. I don't think I'm going to use speaking time here to go through that whole history. With regard to the presidential election, I think the representative of Aasrud should also address that question to the presidency as a whole. I don't think we're going to use this round of consideration of the revised budget to go into what the presidency has decided and not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e875	New alliances emerge in policy from time to time. One of the new alliances we've seen over the last few years is the alliance between the Progress Party and the Left that strong tax increases are a good idea. Among the highest fees increases are those at Norwegian train stations. The introduction of the parking fee is one of the first things that happened after the left came into the government, and there was a charging parking on both Fetsund, Årnes, Sonsvejen and Lysaker in Akershus. On Lysaker, where it has been free to park, it now costs 100 kroner to park. One has increased the fuel charges for people who drive a car into Oslo, one has increased the toll, and then maybe some people think they're going to park at the train station to take the train instead, and then a jam gets introduced there too. What is the background for making sense, from the left's point of view, to impose parking charges on people who commute to the city?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e882	Of course, you can joke a bit about the relationship between the Progress Party and the Left. Obviously, we have different programs, and we have different bets. Several areas – in the field of the environment and in the field of immigration and integration. Despite these disagreements, we have been able to agree on both budgets and bets in the last five years. In the field of the cord changer, i.e. the Minister of Transport, we were able to land the perhaps most ambitious national transport plan we have ever had over the last period. I have freshened in my mind what former Central Party Transport Ministers talked about when they talked about the Central East region and the train operations, so I think we should be very happy that through the NTP negotiations we have had, we are going to use the whole country – in terms of both car, parking, bicycle, trains, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e889	In this government's series of non-social cuts combined with the economic elite's tax feast, the curtailment of redundancy payments and the daily allowance for foster parents comes. We've been able to read the history of cancer in Ingvar, who lost a social benefit of over $200,000 a month because he's a foster father. Therefore, the Storting intervened and decided in two stages that the foster parents affected by this should be guaranteed a transitional regime, so that they are not penalised financially for becoming ill while they are foster parents – last December last, when the Stortinget asked the government to introduce the transitional regime from 11 May 2017. So in this revised budget, we can read that the government is not following up on the decision. The reason is – hold on – that they do not find those who have been hit. The left went hard in the matter when they were in opposition, but now it is not that important anymore. Can the representative conscientiously accept that the government does not find these foster parents, or should we help him look?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e896	The representative doesn't have to look long, because I've been the foster father of three children in the last seven years. But I have noticed that the government has said that this is something they are looking at and will come back to in connection with the budget for the autumn. I think I'll wait until I comment on this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e901	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e906	It is a pleasure to be able to discuss budgets in a situation where the Norwegian economy is going so well. Jobs are created, and unemployment goes down. Fortunately, the use of oil money also goes down, and we think to an even greater degree in a generation perspective. That's good. The Christian People's Party has fought and is going to fight for a warmer society where we take care of the common values, the Christian roots, which we believe is important for building the Norway of the future. We fight for an inclusive society where there is room for everyone, where we make it possible for families to have good, safe conditions for the children to have a good upbringing, and where we make it possible for all people to escape their traits in a safe and good kindergarten and in a safe and good school to become good adults and workers later. I want to draw up part of the breakthroughs of the Christian People's Party that I believe are important to build up under what we are fighting for. We have improved the budget for families and have helped to get through measures that ensure safe growth. One of the great breakthroughs, which is now in force in the autumn, is the teacher standard. The fact that you say for the first time so clearly that there is a maximum average number of students in classrooms will mean a lot, especially for the youngest students. The fact that one starts this fall with 16 students per teacher between 1 and 4. class and next year 15 students, we think will mean a lot – not least for the most vulnerable children. The fact that there are several teachers in a classroom who can see them as they are will hopefully give them better adapted training. We think that will mean a lot – just as several employees in kindergartens are very central. Now there is also a standard of manpower there, but as others have referred to, the concern has been both from the municipalities and from the Christian People's Party that if the reform is not fully funded, it will especially affect the small kindergartens and many ideal kindergartens. That is why we are pleased that, through the budgetary agreement for the revised national budget, we have provided 100 million. kr extra, which was requested by both KS and others for 2018. But there is still a task for 2019 and 2020. An extended twin permit system shall be introduced as from 1 July. The Christian People's Party has wanted to abolish the possibility of so-called birth reduction, or twin away. We believe that at least we have to do what we can to facilitate the demanding task of having two children. The fact that you get leave for four more months now, we believe is an important step forward. Flexible cash support also helps to make things easier for families. In the 2018 budget, we also had an impact on an improved care scheme. We now have a fantastic system that allows families who have children in need of care, to get security around their situation and get 100 pst. compensation for up to five years. It's incredibly important for those families, but I also want to say it's important for society, because they're doing a great job caring for their own children. The Christian People's Party has long fought for an escalation plan to combat violence and abuse against children. We got it in place last year. Now the total is over 800 million. kr. But it is not only the money that is important; it is also a much more systematic approach to helping, preventing and supporting families in order to avoid children being subjected to violence and abuse, but not least on the treatment side in the follow-up of the children who have been subjected to it. It has been important for the Christian People's Party to point out that we have a global responsibility, that we are a country that takes responsibility for the environment, that wants sustainability, that does not have enough with us, but sees that we have a wonderful good country and can also share our wealth. That is why we are proud of a record aid budget, which is targeted specifically at the very poorest South of Sahara, which, in this budget agreement, is lifting emergency aid to two terrible disasters, in Yemen and in the Congo, by over 150 million. kr in the revised national budget, which receives several quota refugees. We agreed on a thousand extras in addition to what the government proposed last autumn. In the revised national budget, we have also put in place a good solution to ensure carbon capture and storage, which we know is absolutely necessary to achieve the climate objectives. We got 50 million. extra to combat plastics in the sea during the budget conciliation in the autumn and several international initiatives. We have many appropriations to secure nature – not only the climate, but also nature – in which the Christian People's Party is proud.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e923	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e928	In the negotiations with the government, the Christian People's Party has received some verbal proposals. One of them is going to ask the government to implement six already agreed call decisions. The settlement partners have been very economical to explain why we are going to adopt these again, because the foundation is difficult to see. If I had added the bad side, I would have said that most of all this testifies to the fact that the Christian People's Party does not trust that the government will ever follow up, but of course I do not. I would like to add a good idea and ask whether the representative can explain the reasons why these decisions are to be re-adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e935	Of course, this should not have been something that needed to be decided again – but is it not ‘incurious’ a user to hide his own faults? This is something that the government signed out in the budget last autumn, which we should have been aware of, and which we thought was not well enough followed up by the government. It is about safer housing, which is an extremely important area, and where the majority of the majority of the population gathered on important measures. When we thought that it was not followed up well enough, and registered it too badly in the autumn, we thought it was important to clarify that there were important measures, which we believe the government should follow up in a better way. So I'm going to take into account the Document 8 proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e942	That was an honest answer. Then I go on to another question. In a late night, municipalities lost property income of about 1 billion. NOK due to the loss of taxes on works and use. The compensation scheme was set at up to 500 million. kr. The criterion – how much each municipality would get – would be revised. It didn't. The municipalities do not yet know how much income they have for school, health and the elderly until the next year. Can we trust the Christian People's Party here, that it's going to be full compensation, or it's up to 500 million. as debt?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e950	The representative Heggø is well aware of the Christian People's Party's position on this matter. We thought it needed a law selection, because there were some uncertainties about the arrangement that was. We thought that it should have been thoroughly treated before making such a big change. We couldn't, but what we were able to do was protect us, for example. what went on property taxes on works and uses, on hydropower, so that the total amount was probably halved in the negotiations last autumn, while at the same time establishing a compensation scheme. I have described in the past that then one has achieved the goal – when one has seen two challenges. One is for business, which receives a demanding property tax, which is not always as predictable, especially when building a new one. One could take it away — while at the same time preserving income for the municipalities. I was disappointed that there was nothing in the communication proposal or revised about it. We've agreed on 500 million. kr from last autumn, but at the same time they – as the representative describes – have to be compensated for almost everything they lose. This must come back to when the government comes up with its answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e959	In the agreement, on a proposal from the government parties, a new tax regime for non-resident workers is in place, with the option of selecting a gross tax scheme. It's an optional arrangement, so it's up to the individual to make use of it. It has been calculated by the government that it may involve a tax subsidy for foreign workers of 50 million. kr. This could result in pressure on Norwegian workers to reduce wages and salaries in order to be competitive compared to non-resident workers who have this tax subsidy. Does the representative Ropstad see the negative consequences of such a system, and what is the background for the Christian People's Party to support this system?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e964	Thank you for an important question. This is something I spent a lot of time in the negotiations because I see the objections that the representative Geelsvik points to. What has been important for the Christian People's Party is that the tax rate is to be set every year, so if this gets the results that someone in the hearing has also pointed to, one can adjust it, if any. One should remember that in the hearing the range was 22-25 pst. – the government chose the top of the 25 p.m., although many of the hearing bodies pointed out that one should set the rate lower. So I'm open to take another round of this. At the same time, I'm not so worried either. This is also about simplification, about getting away from some bureaucracy. So for the state, I think this – hopefully, if you make it right – can be a good arrangement that can also bring in more tax revenue. Then one must follow the developments described by the representative Gülsvik, so that it does not result in reduced wages or other pressures on employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e973	Here, the representative Rupstad presents that one can increase the tax rate, so that people are not going to use the scheme, obviously. But then he says that one will have a simplification. I guess that means that you want people to make use of the scheme. It would have been good to decide whether or not to believe that there is a system that you should use or not use. If no one uses the scheme, there will be no simplification, there will be only more bureaucracy. Then is the core of the question: why has one chosen this as an optional scheme? It's a privilege, it's not something Norwegian workers can choose – what kind of tax system will give you the lowest tax for yourself. Why has one chosen this as an optional scheme for foreign workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e978	As the representative Gülsvik has certainly read, it is clear that getting the right tax burden on the foreign workers who are here on a temporary basis has not always been as simple, one is concerned about whether one actually gets the tax income you need. And one estimate that approx. 25 pst. So we're going to pick this solution. When I say that we can evaluate the tax rate, I could actually say 24 pst. – that one lowers it if it is not used as appropriate. I note that the representative Gülsvik only takes on the basis of those who make NOK 550 000. If you're down to 500,000 kroner or maybe just below that, there won't be any profit for the employee. I think that for some it would be very easy to choose such a tax rate even if they earn a lower amount, because then they'll drop all of the other arrangements. So I am not as concerned as the representative of Gülsvik is in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e985	I come straight from celebrating the 15th anniversary of the kindergarten reform, where Siv Jensen was one of the guests of honor. What could have been the next important step for Norwegian kindergartens and the quality of Norwegian kindergartens was the standard for childcare. Unfortunately, this became a stomachache for the government, and what could have been a party day was met with massive criticism from many teams. A good standard of staffing is important to ensure that all children get quality in kindergartens, but, as you know, the government didn't put one penny on the table to get to the norm. Then it is gratifying that the Christian People's Party was able to find a few cents to the norm, but I want to claim – like a unified sector – that it was not enough. What will the Christian People's Party do to follow up the funding of the nursery norm for Norwegian kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e992	First of all, I would like to say that I believe that the standard of staffing will be very important for kindergartens and not least for those kids who go there, and I know that SV shares the concern associated with large private kindergartens that take out much of the surplus that is there. Now they have to meet the standard of living – both for educators and for the total number of adults in kindergarten – and I think it will be very important. But as the representative points out, like KS and others, we believe that it has been underfunded. KS’ estimate – and clear notice to the Christian People’s Party when we were on our way into negotiations – was that 100 million were needed. kr for 2018. Then I would like to point out that there is a more slippery introduction of the norm than what was proposed by the government. But we were satisfied with that, and I registered an NTB message saying that KS was cheering when we got in the 100 million this year. Then the job, as I said in my post, becomes also for the next few years, and there I expect the government to spend money. If not, the Christian People's Party is prepared to do so in negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e997	The majority decided in April 2017 to ask the government to set up a commission to review a selection of partner killing cases. This promised the government to follow up in the 2018 budget. It didn't happen. We have not yet received a sample to look at these partner killing cases, even though Tor Mikkel Wara promised to drop this sample in April this year. Red believes it is time to show the power of action in this matter, which the Christian People's Party has also shown commitment to earlier, and proposes in the revised budget to ask for the sample to start as soon as possible, and that the sample also assesses the creation of a disaster commission for partner killing in Norway. It is a proposal that will have no budgetary impact, but it may be a marshy lander to the government to follow up the decision of the Stortingen last April and also to follow up, insofar as, the Progress Party's own promises in the matter. The question is whether the Christian People's Party can support such a proposal in the consideration of the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1004	Thank you for a very important line and an important theme, on which I am pleased that the representative is spending time. It's true, as the representative says, that this is something that the Christian People's Party has engaged in, and I think such a selection will also reveal some weaknesses that it is important to address. As far as the proposal being put forward today is concerned, the representative is also aware that we have some commitments to the budgetary agreement. When the Storting has said that it will happen, it is limited how many times the Storing will adopt it again. I just assume that it will be implemented, and will personally contact the Minister of Justice to assure me that it will be put in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1011	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1016	It is a fact that global warming, which is the greatest crisis mankind is facing, is not reflected in the government's revised budget. This is the tenth missed opportunity of the government of Solberg to set a new course for Norway’s climate policy, which ensures economic development at the pace required by the Paris Agreement and the need for a living globe for future generations. Since 2000, Norway has only delivered grey growth, and in 2018 it is not due to real green growth, such as Sweden, Denmark and Finland. Now, of course, I am aware that, in principle, the revised budget is only going to fuck a little bit here and there on an existing budget, but the climate crisis is causing us not to have so much time that we can just fuck a little sometimes. This is also Left's first budget in blue-blue government, and unfortunately we don't see so many tricks after them either. Plastic is choking our oceans – another challenge that actually needs to be solved now is to secure life in the sea and fish at the dinner table. Facts and attention to the urgency have increased sharply only in the last six months. We have therefore made several proposals in our revised budget to get this job moving. This is a problem, and we have to work both nationally and internationally. The populations of marine species are actually halved since I was born, in 1970 about. The Greens propose that we now establish a new global financing system for life in the sea, inspired by Norway's rainforest campaign. We will also implement national measures that will lead to a real reduction in the consumption of plastics. Choosing plastic materials must be more expensive. Fishing for the Litter system, where fishermen can deliver waste free of charge, we propose to change to a reward scheme, where fishermen are paid for the waste. In the hall we discussed carbon capture yesterday, and as mentioned then: it is important that we carry on both carbon capture projects. We have therefore made use of additional means to ensure that also Clemetsrud is realised immediately. I believe that everyone in this Chamber agrees that electric car policy has been a great success. Once we have found the means that has real effect, we should use this to promote conversion in other sectors as well. The powerboat market is still in the starting pit. We propose to exempt recreational craft with zero-emission engines from VAT in order to boost this market. We are promoting the same proposal for electric small airplanes. The Greens have noticed that the blue-blue government's fuel policy has had serious consequences and risks eroding Norwegian environmental policy both in the international community and among Norwegian consumers. The whole 46 pst. of biofuels traded were in last year's palm oil. The use of palm oil in biofuels is now 30 times higher than the reduction in palm oil use in food in Norway in recent years. This is a scandal. The Greens consider it irresponsible to continue subsidising palm oil-based biofuels and propose to remove the tax exemption for all biofuels containing palm oil. This was a small trick of the proposals that we have promoted in the revision, which will help to strike out a new course and turn up the pace towards a transition to a smarter, greener low-carbon society with less economic inequality and a daily life free of fossil plastics that cannot be degraded. There is much that can, should and must be done within these fields, but one must have the will. We must have a desire to create this world, not just go further in the grey straddle, because it is the simplest – and while the Right and Left larva continue on a green shift. We in this room – many of us – have been elected here because we have visions and want to know what this country is like, what it's going to be like. Let's then use this opportunity, let's grab it to create something new and bigger, not just continue in the same track, which after all has brought us to the point where species are eradicated at a frightening pace, where we soon drown in plastic and not in a long time can come to face massive problems due to warmer climate and a melting Antarctica. We still have time to do something, but then we have to stop doing the little tricks, we have to dry – and we wanted to – put on the seven-mile boots.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1040	The President would remind the representative that ‘to go ahead’ is not a parliamentary expression. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1047	For the government, it's important to create more jobs, so we've reduced taxes and charges by 24 billion. kr. Freedom goes down, growth goes up, and new jobs are created. The decline is reversed to rise, but we can't take it for granted. If we are to succeed in the green shift, we must pay homage to the companies that give us income to bet, not least those that are in the front in renewable energy. The MDG budget proposes to increase taxes by over 38 billion. kr in one year. The million bill they want to send Norwegian jobs in the mailbox had meant the hook on the door and tougher times for many businesses, including many of the companies that are in the front line on renewables. So I ask the representative: why does he think, and how does he think, that the companies are going to be able to carry out the green conversion with red numbers on the bottom line? How can the representative think of 38 billion? kr in increased taxes and charges of one year will contribute to more jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1056	The representative only mentions the tax side of the budget and does not refer to the exemptions. What MDG stands for is a real green tax shift, where we give lower taxes to those who have low incomes, and compensate for this with higher taxes on resource use and capital. We also want to distort public procurement towards the purchases that are most resource efficient and that stimulate a circular economy, and we want to impose producer responsibility, so that we can make much better use of the resources by designing the products in such a way that one takes them back. Contrary to what the representative from the Right believes, improving the productivity of resources in the business sector increases profitability. So it's just throwing up a number of 35 billion, completely independent, and then saying that it's MDG's bad policy, undermines the view of what a green shift really is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1063	The representative refers to and says I'm using misleading numbers. Well, I'm referring to the total of MDG's budget, which is net tax incentives of 38 billion. NOK, not 35 billion, as the representative himself said. If we are to create more secure jobs, Norwegian companies need predictability and security, and then the solution is not to send them a tax return of $38 billion. kr in one year. How does the representative feel that this should create more jobs? The fall in the oil price would be a mild breeze compared to the hurricane that would follow if the MDG's alternative budget was adopted. Business needs predictability, and I record that the MDG's representative and the party MDG will not give them this predictability. But I'm going to give the representative a chance to: how does he mean 38 billion? in increased taxes and taxes will contribute to more green jobs and a green shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1072	The representative is going to repeat the figure 38 billion. The point is, in our government budget, we spend less oil money than the government spends. We've got coverage to spend between 5 and 8 billion dollars. less of the country's money in the public sector. As far as business taxes are concerned, it is far from the 38 billion that the representative is talking about. It's distributed throughout the community. What we're adding is a real implementation of what the Green Tax Commission provided, that is, a real green tax shift. Businesses are compensated for, tax exemptions are granted to all those who use less resources, and higher taxes are paid on the products, services and goods that use more resources. That's what a green tax shift is about. We promote those companies that are energy- and resource-efficient, and then we value higher those that use a lot. This will accelerate transformation, innovation and new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1081	Will the representative address the proposals he has in mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1086	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1091	The representative shall then draw up the proposals to which he has referred. Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1098	When the government presented the budget in the autumn, I said that the budget proposal has become the annual day of increasing differences. The revision of the budget again testifies to the fact that we have a government that does not understand the time we live in, the characteristics of Norway that are at risk when the differences increase, and the urgency of adjusting the rate. Revising a budget is about seeing how the world has changed since the budget was adopted, adjusting the rate and solving acute problems that cannot wait until next year. Now, when we see what the government is proposing, it becomes clear that we are completely in disagreement about the urgency of doing something. The government's budget world must be a happy, safe and fine place to be. There is no need to care about the growing economic differences in Norway. Since we adopted the budget, there have been new figures from the SSB showing that every ten children in Norway are growing up in poverty. It is not a development that the government has found room to mention in its message. It's serious. The growth of child poverty is probably an example of how Difference Norway is intensifying, and this revised budget is probably an example of government having no plans to do anything about it – although increasing inequality may be the biggest challenge facing us as a society. We still have it very well in Norway, but there is a disquiet among people, a feeling that we may not be on as safe a basis as we thought, and that our children will not grow up with the security that we ourselves have, because power and wealth accumulate at the top, while ordinary people are left with greater insecurity. Therefore, it is bad that the government does not raise a finger for families affected by poverty, that they shift the tax system so that, under shorter contracts, foreign workers become cheaper in operation, that they retain the sugar levy and risk important Norwegian jobs, and that they cut into labour market measures to get people out of work. Each of these matters is serious enough, but in sum there is a price that strengthens Difference Norway, and that threatens the peculiarities of Norway that we have to fight to keep. To the cut in action places, the government will probably answer that the unemployment rate has fallen. But it's still too high, and the employment rate is low. The government shows how low they have ambitions when they cut 1,000 action areas as soon as they see that the arrows point a little in the right direction. Red will reverse this cut, so that more people can get into work. There has been both winter and spring since the decision of the state budget. There were huge amounts of snow coming in many places. The municipalities have removed the cash register to keep the roads open and the inhabitants safe. We are concerned that the increased winter bill will go beyond other tasks in the municipalities and therefore propose an exceptional pot of 400 million. kr. When all the snow melts, it creates floods. We have escaped the worst damage with a few millimeters of clearance, but with increasing climate change ahead, we have no time to lose to prevent flood damage next year. The professional advice is clear. 200 million is needed. kr more every year for the next four years to reduce the risk of loss of life and damage to homes and infrastructure. That's why Red is adding 200 million. kr, as we demand, in our alternative budget. We're also proposing to increase the funding of fire helicopters by 5 million. kr. The allocation of the day is too small. With that, I take up the Red's draft revised budget, the proposals we are promoting with other parties, plus our loose proposals, which do not have budgetary implications.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1123	Then Red has taken up the suggestions they're part of. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1130	What characterises today's debate and the opposition party's alternative budgets is that there is full chaos about numbers and coverage. All, except SV, budget by removing the 350-kroner limit. The working party will do it from August 1st, and they'll get 770 million. kr. The center party will do it from August 1st, but they'll get 10027 million. kr. The Green Party receives 395 million. kr, and Red gets in, as the only containment proposal, except for another small item, 333 million. kr. So even though all of this is unrealistic money, as the Post itself has explained today, Red goes a step further, as they do so often. At least the other parties go to zero with their invasions, but the red ends up missing 1,567 million. to go into zero in its alternative budget. My question to the representative of Moxnes is therefore: How is Red going to spend money they don't have?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1140	Red uses $1.6 billion. kr more oil money than the government, which in turn spends 10 billion. kr less oil money in the revised national budget than they did in the State budget. Ergo uses Red 8.4 billion. less oil money than is used in the State budget – a slightly less reduction than the government itself. We also spent 2.2 billion. kr less than the government of our alternative state budget for 2018. It is not that the current level of government's use of money is perfect at all times. It changes all the time. We were under that use of money in the 2018 budget, we are a little over the revision for the current year, to afford, among other things. flood and racial security measures and advise municipalities to ensure preparedness and a number of other necessary initiatives in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1147	It's strange that Red has to suggest using 1.6 billion. kr more oil money – Red, which has sucked quite well into the pockets of most of the inhabitants of this country. It must then be possible to challenge Red why they don't just increase the tax burden, instead of using the oil money, which is going to be yours and my pension in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1152	We like to increase the taxes for the rich – you shouldn't be afraid of it – but Red won't do it for most people. We'll keep the taxes unchanged, or we'll lower them. We don't want most people to pay more in taxes, but those who sponsor the Right election campaign can pay more. With regard to suction pipes in the state treasury, it's interesting that the Right, who's worried about it, is the welfare profiter's all, the warmest defender. Reports show that billions of taxpayers are taken into private profits from kindergartens, asylum receptions, hospitals, home care and care. And what does the Right say? We must let go of all good forces. I have a good suggestion for the discovery to the Right: close the holes where the tax money runs out, and let the money go to well-being, not to private profit, for which the Right unfortunately goes in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1161	In Trøndelag, we have an expression called ‘to be great in the guise’. People who use many and large words are often used but do not provide much content. Sometimes I feel that this can be true of the representative of Moxnes. For months he has been talking about the need to cut the budgets of Stortinget after the building scandal at Stortinget. Now we have the fasitite: Red cutter not a single penny in Stortinget. In addition, despite the fact that the representative Moxnes strongly criticized the government in his intervention now recently, the party that changes on the fewest items on the government's proposal for a revised national budget. So they're moving into fewer entries than the four collaboration parties in this room are doing. Of course, it could not have occurred to me to call the representative Moxnes lat or to say that he does not have the competence to promote his alternatives, so we are left with one explanation, and that is that the representative Moxnes is really quite satisfied with the government's proposal. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1168	Unfortunately, it doesn't. I'm not satisfied with what's being presented. We have important bets that we go into our option. We want, for example: to increase the appropriations allocated to kindergartens to finance the standard of living, by adding up to 300 million. to the municipalities and at the same time ensure that the money goes to the best of the children, not to private profit. We don't give money to the profit-bearing farms, which the Advance Party, along with the Right, is very much for, for some remarkable reason. We also see that municipalities need more money to get ready and secure themselves against floods and races. After they've grounded their boxes in winter, money is needed to cover it up. When it comes to being large in number, perhaps Bjørnstad can talk about it with the outgoing Minister of Justice Sylvi Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1177	The President wants to remind the representative of Moxnes that all speeches must be made through the President. Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1184	It is very gratifying that we can now see that the Norwegian economy has risen after the 2014 setback. It's solid growth, and unemployment has come down. The government's economic policy was in line with the oil price drop. Both the AKU unemployment rate and the registered unemployment rate have fallen continuously in the last two years. The registered unemployment rate is now well below the average for the last 20 years. The decline in unemployment has spread throughout the country, and regional disparities in unemployment are decreasing. More and more people are coming to work, and the growth in employment has taken place. The employment rate rose in the first quarter after having remained stable over the last year. The 2018 budget facilitates the continuation of positive developments in the Norwegian economy. It is a budget for economic growth, more in jobs and a sustainable welfare society. Last autumn we posted a normalisation of fiscal policy in 2018. This device shall be continued in the revised budget. This is how we support employment and migration. The use of oil revenue from the State budget corresponds to 2.7 pst. by the capital of the State pension fund abroad. It is lower than the long-term guideline of 3 pst. and it is also lower than estimated in the national budget last autumn. We know that the fund value can change significantly in the short term. With a socket below 3 pst. We're getting a certain buffer to deal with future falls in the value of the fund. Overall, the 2018 budget involves the use of oil revenues that support conversion and employment. By adapting the use of oil revenues to better times in the Norwegian economy, we avoid putting pressure on the krone price and competitive business. Sustainable economic policies and improved competitiveness make important contributions to the transitions that the Norwegian economy will have to undergo in the years to come. But it's also important how we spend the money on the state budget. The 2018 budget brings clear priorities – we spend money in a way that strengthens well-being and creates more jobs. We focus on knowledge, transport, health and well-being in the municipalities. And we are focusing on security through police and defence. The changes in the tax system we have adopted facilitate growth and conversion and mean that people can retain more of their own income. The government has rallied a course that strengthens the well-being of today and secures Norway for the future. In the revised budget, we are keeping to this rate. As always, there is uncertainty about future developments. Among other things, the risk of increased protectionism and more introverted policies has increased recently. This is unfortunate for Norway. As a small, open economy, we are particularly dependent on open and functioning international markets. The contradictions we are now seeing are at risk of weakening the multinational, rule-based cooperation, which is so important to us. Further escalation of trade restrictions will have a negative impact on the Norwegian economy by weakening economic growth internationally and reducing export and investment conditions. The Government proposes to continue Norwegian practice of not using restrictive trade measures, because it is in Norwegian interest to avoid contributing to increased friction in global trade cooperation and because increased import barriers will add extra stones to the burden on the Norwegian economy. At home, there is uncertainty about the development of housing prices and household debt. Household liabilities have increased longer than income. The continuing rise in household debt represents a vulnerability in the Norwegian economy. High debt increases the risk that households will have to tighten up their consumption in the event of a loss of income, an increase in interest rates or a sharp fall in housing prices. The Housing Loan Regulation was introduced to contribute to a more sustainable development of household debt. The regulation expires in the summer and is now under assessment. In order to ensure a high level of employment and a sustainable welfare society, priority must be given to measures that can increase the growth capacity of the economy, and we need to spend money in the public sector smarter. We have done so in all the budgets we have put forward, including in the 2018 budget. In the revised budget, we are keeping to the main priorities of the budget adopted last autumn. At the same time, we have found it necessary to make some minor adjustments to the budget. I am therefore pleased with the agreement we have reached with the Christian People's Party on the revised national budget for 2018. We agree on a budget that is well adapted to the challenges facing the Norwegian economy and the Norwegian business community now. The government has set out a course that responds to the challenges of the Norwegian economy in both the short and long term. We have implemented measures to facilitate economic transformation and contribute to growth and new jobs. In the revised budget, we are keeping to this rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1216	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1221	Governments give a picture of an economy that is in recovery, and we'll be happy for that. But in the revised national budget, there is also a good description that productivity has taken up, of conditions in countries around us and what the government is doing to increase productivity. Increased productivity is described as making better use of scarce resources and that gains from more efficient forms of production and organisation are initially partly due to lower prices to consumers and partly to workers and owners of capital through higher wages and increased return on capital. For us who are concerned that the differences in the country should not increase, it is important to have knowledge of how this distribution is. When I asked the Council of State about the same matter a few weeks ago, the Council of State replied that she had no idea how the distribution was between capital and work. Now I expect the Council of State to say something about it, about how that distribution is, and how the changes have been while she has been the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1228	I noticed that question from Rigmor Aasrud a short time ago, and I have put it into work and will forward it to the representative as soon as it is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1233	I think it's a rather central issue in a government budget and a revised budget to have knowledge of how such a central issue is, so I'm a little surprised that it hasn't been possible to provide answers to it in a month. I guess that means that the interest isn't so great as to figure out the answer. Let me then ask the Council of State another question, to which it may be possible to get an answer. We are still hearing the government talk about integration. Then it is very strange to cut funds into action places, for those who are going to benefit from such inclusion skills must be those who are far from working life. Or is it that the government will now use the word ‘daught’ in the right sense of the word, that there should be free work, that no one should be shown anything to participate in that integration virtue?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1239	Firstly, the government has a lot of knowledge about both the development of productivity and differences in Norway, and we should be glad that we have small differences in Norway compared to very many other countries around the world. When it comes to trying to set the inclusion threshold – I guess that’s what the representative thinks – up to the reduction in the number of response sites, I think it’s being very sought. It is such that when the unemployment rate rises, the scope of action places also increases. Now the time off has fallen. It is also natural that the number of places of action should decrease, but in such a way that we protect those groups in the world of work that have the greatest challenges. The government has been busy facilitating this. As far as inclusion is concerned, it is primarily about facilitating all those who have been on the outside of the Norwegian labour market for a long time, who have encountered different barriers to entry. These are the barriers the government wants to bring down, so that more people with work skills get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1246	It is natural — and I agree with the Council of State — to reduce the number of places of action when unemployment goes down, but there are so many areas of action that there are so many more people left behind in each action area now than just six months ago, and these are the people who are probably the furthest away from working life. How does it respond to the government's desire to increase the number of people who find it more difficult to enter and get a place of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1251	I think the representative of Aasrud is exaggerating. There is no significant reduction in the number of action places in the revised budget. There's a moderate reduction based on the fact that unemployment continues to go down, and we're going to enjoy that. Then I fully agree that we have a formidable job to do when it comes to facilitating the entry of all those who have been on the outside of the labour market for a long time. This is about making it easier for people with holes in the CV to get attention from their employers. It's about more business leaders around this country seeing people's working capacity and facilitating it. I was last a few days ago visiting REMA 1000, who is using the opportunities with their local merchants around the country, giving people a chance and feeling that this is a very valuable workforce. We have to do much more of this in the time to come, and I hope that the Workers' Party agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1256	Last autumn, parts of Norwegian industry received a tax shock that was directly demanding for the country’s largest mainland industry, the food industry. Combined with the 350-kroner limit, it was a targeted attack on Norwegian workers and Norwegian value creation. I thought it would stop there, but when I read the revised national budget, there was a new targeted attack on Norwegian workers. We have seen that in some industries Norwegian workers have disappeared – 20 pst. within construction, 40 pst. within clean-up and 50 pst. in the hotel and restaurant industries, according to a large survey. Therefore, it is completely incomprehensible that the government is now adding up a scheme in which non-resident workers will receive lower taxes in competition with Norwegian workers. For example, a building worker who makes $550,000, has $100,000 lower taxes if his name is Jarek and is from Poland, than if his name is Ola and he's from Folldalen. Why does it have to be like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1261	Let me first refute the claim that the government is conducting targeted attacks on the Norwegian business community. It's, with respect to report, some of the stupidest thing I've heard for a very long time. This government has made it possible for Norwegian business to develop, grow, take new investments. We have done so by implementing a tax reform, where we have reduced the overall tax burden in Norway by over 24 billion. kr since we joined. We have done this through an offensive effort on transport investment, we have done this by investing in research, by focusing on knowledge, by debureaucraticising instruments that business before, under the Battle of Vedum in government, had to use resources to pay in. Overall, then, the framework conditions for Norwegian business have improved considerably. With regard to the arrangement with non-resident workers, we discussed it very thoroughly in Stortingen on Monday, but I understand that the Central Party obviously has a hard time getting along with the content of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1270	I understand that Siv Jensen does not want to talk about the scheme and will not defend it, because it is difficult to defend that Ola from Folldalen will have NOK 10 000 more in tax than Jarek from Poland. There's no reason for that, they should be treated in a non-discriminatory way. It should be that a Polish worker and a Norwegian worker get equal taxes, but with Siv Jensen it is now that if you have a normal job in construction, you get more tax if you are a Norwegian than if you are from Poland. It's a very strange system, especially when we see the study that Fafo and several other heavy players have done, where they just point out that very many Norwegian workers are disappearing from large parts of Norwegian business. I understand that Siv Jensen does not want to talk about it, but can she not explain why it is that Ola from Folldalen should have NOK 10,000 more in taxes than Jarek from Warsaw?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1277	I want to talk both about this arrangement and defend it, and I did so in full monn when the Storting discussed it on Monday. But I would like to repeat the main message: this is primarily a simplification – a simplification arranged in such a way that we do not break our EEA legal obligations. One can choose to deal with the tax rules applicable to Norwegian workers, or one can choose this scheme, which means a flat tax without any right to deduct. This has been at the hearing, and I have experienced that there is a broad consensus that we must implement this scheme, also because we have received many requests that this has been a scheme that has contributed to significant errors. Now let's fix it. We are cutting red tape, simplifying and meeting well, I believe, as to what both the LO and the NHO felt in the hearing on this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1284	In many different contexts, SV has brought forward the unsocial cuts that this government has implemented: cutting housing support, cutting physical therapy for burns, cutting people with developmental disabilities, cutting child support for the disabled and so on. In this series, we also find the shortening of redundancy pay and the daily allowance for foster parents. Twice the Stortinge has decided that a transitional arrangement is to be ensured for foster parents affected by this. But in the revised national budget, the government states that they are unable to find these parents. Well, it's strange, because they exist, and the Norwegian Foster Home Association has said in its consultation to the Finance Committee that they haven't been asked by the government about this either. We also see that the government is asking the Stortingen to agree that the government should not comply with the Storingen's requests in this case. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Shouldn't the government follow up what the Storting has decided in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1291	First, to the representative Kaski's claim that this government has implemented a large number of unsocial cuts: I disagree with that. I believe that the main arrangement of government policy is to facilitate the improvement of those who have challenges in our society. Then it is also about making arrangements for more people to get to work. The prerequisite for more people to get to work is that we have companies that want to hire. That is why these things are linked. That is why it has been important for us to have a competitive tax system, and that is why it has been important for us to facilitate growth in the economy – precisely so that we can secure the welfare systems, which there is quite a broad consensus that we should have. With regard to the system for foster parents, the government in the revised budget has announced that we will come back to these issues in the context of the 2019 government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1298	I am pleased that the Minister of Finance in his contribution addresses trade barriers, because while the Norwegian economy remembers a lot about the value we have outside today, the dark clouds are exactly what we experience associated with trade barriers. President Trump said he should be 'unpredictable' and he lives up to that, but just one area he has been clear on the whole is trade barriers and customs. In these minutes the Wall Street Journal also reports that there will be an extra customs duty of 400 billion. kr, and it would be particularly related to the relationship between China and the United States. The Minister of Finance will deal with this. What do the Norwegian authorities do to help us prevent this development? Are we clear about our relationship with the United States about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1307	I thank you for the question. It is incredibly important for countries like Norway, with small, open economies, to have access to the world market, both because we have products that we export and can dispose of on the world market, and also because we have the opportunity to import goods that we do not produce ourselves. The development we've had over many decades has been one of the most important contributions to lifting millions of people around the world out of poverty. That's why it's worrying when you see a tightening of this, which is really caused by other things. It is actually caused by a trend towards increasing disparities in the countries where these measures are implemented. The main means of combating increased disparities is national policy framework conditions. It's about taxes. It's about welfare schemes. It's about how to distribute well-being in a society. And here I believe Norway has been significantly better than very many other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1317	Siv Jensen shines around the sun outside when she boasts of good times, but we hear little about the shadow side of the Norwegian economy, about the increasing differences, about over a hundred thousand who are out of work, and about the families who are now in the summer meeting with quite dwindled bank accounts. Now in June, there are many unemployed people who are struggling extra, because the government has taken away the holiday money, one of many cut governments carried out to afford their heart issue, namely tax cuts for those who have all, most of them in Norway. It may feel a bit bitter for the unemployed to spit in such a job – that is, to give from the many who have little, to the few who have even more. Under this government, income differences have increased every year. I wonder why the Minister of Finance does not even mention this problem in his communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1324	Let me first refute the claim that this government has given tax cuts to the richest. That's just not right. The main weight of the income tax reliefs granted by this government has gone to households with income less than NOK 600 000. So that means that a normal family with two incomes has received NOK 10,000 in tax relief. It is possible that Moxnes thinks it is a little small, but then he might earn a little too much. It's not like I'm not busy talking about the shadow side, as Moxnes calls it. We presented a perspective message in ours, which just highlighted the long-term challenges for the Norwegian economy, which just highlighted what we need to do in the future to ensure sustainable development in the Norwegian economy. I think it is absolutely essential that we be able to get hold of it. Then it's about making sure that we give priority to the most important things in the future state budgets, and that we facilitate continued growth in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1331	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1336	It's going well in the Norwegian economy. I think all the speakers here today can end up talking about that. Economic growth has taken up. The recession is behind us. I think it's useful that we also catch up with the debate about looking at the clouds that are outside what's happening in the commercial policy arena. There is no economy as open as ours. There are hardly anyone who will be more affected by the fact that it attracts against trade wars internationally. The government must work on this and pay great attention to it. We're going to have to discuss our economy, the budget here at the revised target line that we're currently in. From the Labour Party we believe that a good starting point has not become a good end result, when we see the state budget and the revision, even after the Christian People's Party has been corrected some of the government's proposals. It is cut into measures that will get people to work. It is too small to deal with increasing crime in the workplace. Children's gardens are being down-prioritized. Our common hospitals are underfunded. There are no more places to study despite record applicants for higher education. It's not going to be put on more police. In fact, the government is cutting in places of study at the Police College — and after a few days before the election, the Minister of Justice said that the number that has been until now, 750, should be kept stable. A good starting point has not become a good end result. It is that the Norwegian model is supported by the fact that many of us work. We do not live by the work of others in Norway, we will live by each other's work. One of the main societal challenges is therefore a weak trend in employment over several years. It lasted longer in Norway than in any other country after the financial crisis. We were the world's best at getting people to work for a long time. We're not anymore. The budget documents this. The figures show a weak employment growth and a reduced share of jobs for several age groups. Against this background, it is therefore incomprehensible that the government reduces the number of places for labour market action by 1,100 in the second half of the year, as we have mentioned in this debate. This is the wrong policy at a time when we should have done more, not less and less to get more people to work. Let me take another example that has been a topic in the debate, the tax exemption for imports below NOK 350. It is an exemption that is targeted at government parties, which makes the conditions difficult for Norwegian businesses, and which depletes Norwegian jobs for the benefit of foreign online shops – quite incomprehensible. We want to remove the exemption and propose it in our alternative budget. The Right Party and the Advance Party vote against. A crucial part of the Norwegian model is a decent working life for everyone. Nevertheless, in parts of the world of work, we see that total and semi-crime is growing. Once again, we have to say that the government is doing little with what really matters, even after the Minister of Labour spoke before the elections last year about the need to combat almost slave-like conditions in Norwegian working life. The Workers' Party now proposes, as an example, that a new Acrim Centre should be set up in Gjøvik, so that we can continue to get the floors to work together to ensure a decent working life. Giving our children a safe upbringing is one of our most important tasks, and it engages the Nordics across generations. That problem starts early, not least in kindergarten. Therefore, we have gone beyond what the government and the settlement partners have, by granting 200 million. kr, so that the municipalities can implement the recruitment standard adopted by the Stortinget. It's necessary, and it's mending. Monner does the same thing when we grant 250 million. kr more for the regional health establishments. A strong common health system is fundamental to a fair society with small differences and is an important investment. Therefore, it is bad that hospitals are again underfunded and starved — and with a low level of activity. It is particularly serious when underfunding goes hand in hand with the construction of a free treatment option that now drains more and more of our common hospitals for money and personnel and transfers them to private and commercial actors. Here, the right side's belief in privatisation and the Workers' Party's belief in strong public hospitals is clearly shown. The hospital sector is now facing major challenges, with new medical devices and large investment in ICT. So we have to bet on that. More working is important to a society like ours. A decent work life for everyone is the same. Building up our common well-being for all is essential to preserving a society of strong community and small differences. In these areas, the Minister of Finance has made a mistake. And not enough: if we disagree with the view of the welfare state and labour policy, we should stand together to keep Norway safe. But in several areas, the government is going in the wrong direction, as the latest report from the National Audit Office on object protection shows. That's what we're going to get back to in Stortinget after the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1355	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1360	Historically, the Workers' Party has been the dominant governing party on the left. Now SV, Red, the Green Party and the Centre are bigger than the Workers' Party. Then we see that the Workers' Party goes to the left by closing the door to the center and by saying no to private operators in welfare. The sum of this is going to be a political experiment that the country doesn't need. It will give less effort on the road and defense. It will create uncertainty about our main industry, the oil and gas industry. This will lead to fewer good private kindergartens. This could lead to increased taxes on business and on residents. While SV was responsible for sitting in government, the Workers' Party has become irresponsible to sit in opposition. Does the Workers' Party feel comfortable constantly hanging out on Red and SV's policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1365	That I think would cause such a big discomfort that we would never think of going that way. The working party feels a lot of discomfort by sitting in the opposition, and we think the government needs a different direction, different values, other priorities, other bets. It is fantastic to hear the parliamentary leader in the Right saying that earlier priority was given to investments in defence – when we now have a government that fails to follow wide-ranging settlements for the country power, when we have a government that, according to the Riksrevision, has not been able to deliver on security in the preparedness for terrorism. The story of history doesn't keep track. The working party wants an overall opposition to the government. The parties who want to give priority to well-being – which prioritizes that we combine to create new jobs, which prioritize the use of all resources across the country, which prioritizes the ringing of public welfare, stop our taxpayers' money and user money going to large commercial players – should stand together, point out an alternative and get a majority in the next elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1370	An example of this irresponsibility is some of what Gahr Støre himself pointed out in his post, namely that he wants to eliminate the 350-kroner limit. It is, of course, a real political position that you can discuss. But when the Workers' Party chooses to finance all its spending increases in the revised removal of this limit, which both the Post and the Ministry of Finance say is impossible to remove in 2018, the question is: Does the Workers' Party feel that it is responsible policy to fund its investments with non-existent non-existent imagination money?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1375	I think we're going to do that job pretty well. I have great faith that we can do it both through technology and competent people in the Post Office. I read somewhere that the Post receives about 40,000 shipments every day from China. It gives a pretty intense climate impression from planes. Maybe we can deal with a few fewer of them – maybe some of the Norwegians can say that well, we can choose to buy them from Norwegian producers and not order them from the other side of the world. When we are able to accept goods that cost 351 kroner, I think we can also accept those that cost 349 kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1380	I – with several – experience a great deal of winging from the Workers' Party when it comes to immigration issues. Immigration and asylum policies are extremely important in view of the Norwegian economy. It costs huge sums each year, and there are several, including from the Workers' Party, who have pointed out that excessive immigration into Norway will be a threat to the welfare community. There have been good tones in many areas from representatives of the Workers' Party. However, the question that the Progress Party once raised about asylum recipients in third countries, which could have saved us too much money – which we could rather use for welfare services in Norway, or perhaps help anyone who really needs it where they are – has been very much winged about. The representative Støre went against his own representative a short time ago. Is it possible to reach the representative of the Støre to clarify where the party stands on that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1385	Why has the representative, who has been in charge of government for five years, not established such centres? Why have they not returned to centres that Norway operates abroad? This is complicated. This must be thoroughly investigated. I am open to that debate we must take, we must take it as a European debate and a Nordic debate. And I've said, honestly, after sitting in the government itself, that I'm skeptical about the idea that Norway alone is going to set up receptions for people far beyond our own country and be sure that people are being treated under international conventions and rights there. We have a thorough debate on what the new immigration challenge today's policy. Because the representative Helgheim is that understanding what's happening around us, finding the right choices, is winging. Well, then I strongly prefer that we have a policy that is looking for the good answers, in line with our traditions – humanistic, legal, international – rather than standing on a policy that they speak loud about when they are in the pulpit, but have not made one gram to implement when they are in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1393	But couldn't it be a great advantage to settle such a question? It's okay to have arguments for and against such important questions, that it's difficult, it's not a problem to have an understanding of. But when you have different positions on one theme from one week to the other, it's problematic to deal with others. In fact, there were only a few days from the Workers' Party's immigration-political spokesperson talking about it warmly, until party leader Støre almost rejected it. Denmark – with more – in Europe says that this can be a good solution. It is not that Norway would have been alone in this matter. Why then should we wait to move on with such a solution until everyone else introduces it, when it is actually not true that other countries will not agree to it? There have been discussions between the Labour Party and the social democrats in Denmark about the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1398	It has been over 200 years since Norway adopted what Denmark did in terms of solutions to deal with our relationship both internally and externally. We listen to Denmark and we listen to Sweden. Very well known, there are no countries in Europe that have implemented what the representative now says many do. What I have said is that such solutions must work, I think that several countries must join forces, I think Europe must take responsibility together, we must have a debate on this. What Gharakhani said was that this was one of the things we should be looking at. I agree. But I have, as long as I have been involved in this, since I was Minister for Foreign Affairs, said that I am skeptical of solutions that one country establishes such centres abroad. I think it is difficult to meet the quality requirements that should be, the rights requirements that should be, and the humanistic requirements that should be. At the same time, we should look at arrangements that make it impossible for people to cross the mountains and the sea to come to a border in the north if they are to seek asylum. There is a trend that we have seen in recent years, where many come to Norway and do not have the right to asylum and protection, and this has to be returned. Then we have to look for new solutions, and then we have to try to find the best ones, and that's the way the Workers' Party operates politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1405	I heard Gahr Støre say now that Norwegian producers would replace the product range from China – yes, well. There are some other things under Gahr Støre that had never been possible under Stoltenberg, and it has something to do with the invasion. Now, the Post has said that it's a completely unrealistic 700 million. kr – as Gahr Støre’s lot suggests – by removing the 350 kr limit. Something else is that under Gahr Støre it seems that the Workers' Party does not have any own projects. The Labour Party boasts in its alternative to the revised budget that it strengthens the posts to which the government has already increased the appropriations, it is the nursery norm, or for example. measures to combat marine pollution. But where are the Workers' Party's own significant innovations? Or is the answer to the Workers' Party that they want to do more of all that the government already does, that is, more money for all that the government already gives more money to?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1412	Lifting the seas and fighting against marine pollution, the Workers' Party was first out to address as a broad theme, and Norway should be committed as a major project. A commitment to a reform of skills that gives people the opportunity to learn throughout their lives, as real monks, and to build on the tripartite cooperation, the Workers' Party has been out early. Strengthening the community hospital so that they can provide equivalent conditions for people throughout the country is within the budgets of the Workers' Party. A municipal economy of between three and four billion. kr more to the municipalities, so they can bet on what really matters to people, is in the Workers' Party's alternative budgets. The sad thing about them is that they are alternatives – they are not adopted. Then we don't straighten it out in a revised budget in the middle of the year, but we point to some areas, and I've mentioned them now, where the Workers' Party sets a different course from what the government does – we would prioritise differently – that we think has meaning over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1417	The Christian People's Party will also remove the SEK 350 limit, but still a significant part of the goods will come from China. But I want to raise an even more important issue to the representative Gahr Støre: the birthrate in Norway is now at 1.62. They're never lower measured as long as we've measured this in Norway. This is also about the resilience of our welfare society. When Kristin Halvorsen left the red-green government, she said that one of the things she would have liked to see she had done more with was the one-time benefit. We now experience that the financial system for becoming a parent is significantly unfair. If you're a student, it costs a lot more than if you're at work. Will the Labour Party – that is my question – look at these tools when we now see the challenge that the birth rate is contributing to giving our welfare society?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1424	The answer to that is yes, and I think we should all. We've been dealing with these issues in the Workers' Party as long as I've been involved in politics. Demography is complicated, but in our reign we had a combination of high participation of women in work and high birth rates. We were at the top of Europe. Now we get a drop that's pretty dramatic, and we're going to try to understand what's coming out of it. Families, women, have children later in life, and the numbers fall. I think we need to look at what we have of schemes that can help reverse such a trend. It's not like one social welfare scheme turns it around overnight, even though we need a change in both behavior and birth rates, but we have experience from what it means to establish a family, start a life, choose to have children number two, which we should pull on to get back to the level that Norway was at. And I think this about students is particularly important, that they can have children before and not have to wait until they're in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1429	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1434	Despite the left-hand horror pictures, Norway is doing well. Freedom goes down, growth goes up and more jobs are created. At the same time, we see that high school implementation is increasing and health cows are getting shorter. This shows that the government’s policy responds to many of the challenges that Norway faces and that many experience in their everyday lives. The government's proposals for amending the budget and the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party show that this budgetary round is just that – a revision. We update the budget with new estimates and put in some measures as a result of new information. This shows that the situation in the Norwegian economy is normalised, that the harvest budget met well, and that the need for new measures has fallen. That's a good sign. It was not long since the opposition stood on this pulpit and claimed that the government's action against the oil price fall did not work. Well, now we're left here. I wonder if Gahr Støre and the rest of the opposition now want to admit that the government's actions actually worked. The speech of the figures is very clear. Employment is increasing markedly, and unemployment is at its lowest since 2009. The IMF was recently visiting Norway and was very clear that the government’s increased use of money in relation to the fall in oil prices was correct and that, with lower unemployment and increased growth, it now had to become a tighter policy for the competitive industry. Yes, that's exactly what the government is using, and that's what the government is doing. This government has been criticised for the use of oil money. I have been a little surprised by this criticism because the government has conducted a classic counter-cyclical policy. Stoltenberg did the same during the financial crisis. The theorem is simple: you put on gases in bad times and brake in good times. Now it's good times in Norway. This is why last year the government reduced the growth in the use of oil revenues — as a result of a strong upward trend in estimates of growth in the Norwegian economy in 2018. As a result of improvements in the Norwegian economy, the use of oil revenues is now further reduced by 5.6 billion. kr in the revised budget. The government has also tightened up the rule of action and spends almost twice as much of the space for action on growth promotion compared to what the previous government did. This is the tenth budgetary unit that we have created on the civil side. The bourgeois majority who regained confidence last autumn has both the ability and the will to find good solutions for the country. The budget agreement was made in good time before the deadline, which shows that cooperation is good. The main priorities in tax, knowledge, transport, health and a solid local economy are also determined by the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party. This strengthens well-being and contributes to the creation of more profitable jobs across the country. At the same time, we are equiping ourselves for the future by making Norway greener and the welfare society more sustainable. This is the last day we gather before summer. It gives an opportunity to reflect on what this session has been like. For the government, it's been a good six months. The government expanded with the Left in the New Year, and we have received an offensive government statement that is clear that we are moving towards a more sustainable welfare society. It involves getting more people to work, including everyone in society, and meeting climate goals. At the same time, I note that the largest opposition party has received a new performance in Stortinget. In several cases, the Workers' Party is now breaking with the responsible guideline they have traditionally been known for. They will enter into fewer settlements. They tried to direct the government in monetary policy, which the governor reacted to. In climate policy, they are more concerned with symbol policy than with what actually cuts emissions, and they close the door for private actors in welfare, both in kindergarten and child protection. This makes it more difficult to find good and pragmatic solutions with the old control party on the left. I don't think it's going to be any easier when the Workers' Party is now dependent on parliamentary support from a crackdown of SV, Red, the Green Party and the Senter Party. For the Right, our focus will be on developing policies. We're going to continue to develop real solutions, on real problems, for real people. We believe that the biggest challenge for Norway is to create a more sustainable welfare society. That's why it's our main project, and this revised national budget is a step towards this ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1462	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1467	There are different explanation models in society about what creates crime and what works. Before the 2013 election, the first candidate of the Progress Party in Hedmark believed that it was the new Norwegian who created crime. Now it's the socionomists who make criminals go free on the streets, if we're going to believe what the government party's immigration figure has said in the Political Quarter this week. Then my simple question to the Right's parliamentary leader is: is it because there is no more to go to the police and crime prevention in this budget – because the Crime Analysis of the Progress Party has been fully implemented by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1472	Even I've had my own nine Norse main goal, and I know several socionomists who even speak new Norse, so I don't think we're going to put too much emphasis on this analysis to the Progress Party. The Minister of Justice was in Stortinget yesterday. There has been an ever-increasing focus on repeat crime in Oslo. At the same time, we have implemented a police reform which, first of all, has given over 2,000 new police posts. We have said that we should increase our efforts strongly in the east of Oslo. I believe that the overall crime scene in Norway has been improving, but one sees that especially in the east of Oslo, there are challenges that are now being addressed. I recorded yesterday that many supported measures such as arms, which are not necessarily directly related to this, but also that one is introducing additional measures in the east of Oslo. This follows the government up – and is going to follow up. We're going to have a comprehensive, balanced criminal policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1480	The representative of Greece said something, which is quite right, in his post, and that is that the number of words is clear. If you look at the number, you'll see that it's not just the police and the criminal services that needed a lift under this government. This budgetary agreement is referred to on the Right’s web pages as ‘cohesion on a budget for more jobs and a sustainable welfare society’, but there is no sign of any change or resilience in the revised budget and important tasks remain unresolved. For example, on the government watch, the number of young people without a job is almost double. Can the representative of Greece explain to the Stortinget how the reduction in labour market measures and the under-financing of hospitals will help to bring more young people back into the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1485	I put a lot of emphasis on the fact that this was a revision of an adopted state budget. In the state budget, there are measures both to increase the number of young people at work and to reduce the number of disabled people. Last night, the Minister of Labour at Dagsrevyen was: she had met young men – who, as they said, had not only holes in the CV but craters in the CV – who had now come to work. The inclusion work, getting more people to work, which also has challenges, are some of the most important measures this government is taking. We are not making changes to this in the revised budget, but the tone and what have been adopted in the budget apply throughout the year – and there is a great deal going on. I'm very excited about how the Workers' Party is going to finance all its promises, when the only funding measure they have in this revised budget is to remove the 350-kroner limit, which cannot be removed. When Støre also says that the goods will be produced in Norway, I believe that the Workers' Party has a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1492	The Norwegian food industry is Norway's largest mainland industry. Norwegian groceries are Norway's largest private employment units. In the commercial sector, more than 350 000 people are employed. It is the heaviest industry we have in Norway other than the oil and gas industry, and then it is amazing that the Right's parliamentary leader is standing and in a way mocks, as he did a quarter of a century ago, when someone just took up the competition conditions for the industry and for the grocery trade. Then there is the specific question to the representative of Greece: Does the Right actually think that it is wise to have this strange fee shop that you had before Christmas, which directly hits the food industry and the food industry? Is that a wise policy? And is it wise policy to have a subsidization of foreign online commerce that punishes Norwegian online shops, when we see that growth there is huge? The representative of Greece must be able to respond to this – whether he thinks it makes sense to subsidise foreign workers and not Norwegians.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1505	I think the representative Vedum is much more on track than the representative of Støre was, because he was talking about online trade from China when he was going to refer to the 350-kroner limit. The representative Vedum talks about Norwegian food, Norwegian food products that the food industry stores. I don't think it's any very touching idea that people are going to order cheap showers from Sweden online, so there are pages at this 350-kroner limit we're open to discuss, and we're going to go into those debates. What is important is that Norwegian food industry is also doing well. It sounds like everything's going right west. I saw yesterday that a local company in my town, Aass Bryggeri, delivered its best quarterly results. So it's going well in many parts of the Norwegian food industry, and I'm glad it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1512	There are an amazing number of good people in the Norwegian food industry and in Norwegian groceries, but Norwegian politicians' jobs must be that we constantly ensure the conditions of competition for that industry and for the daily food trade when it is such a big employment set of people. What we in the Center Party are reacting so strongly to is that the Right Government takes it as a matter of course that the food industry will survive no matter what tax measures you take. One takes it for granted that the trade industry in Norway is going to be okay, even with the type of grip of NOK 350. It comes at a maximum of unfortunate times, when more and more of us are familiar with shopping online. It's a huge growth potential, and we have to get that industry in Norway. I hope that the Right now closes the hole as quickly as possible, because it becomes more difficult and difficult to seal that kind of hole when the volume and habits around getting things VAT-free from abroad will increase. My second question is: Will the government budget be apprehended for the autumn when the Norwegian food industry is charged a reduction of 350 kroner and the hole is sealed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1519	The representative Vedum knows just as well as I do that I am not making predictions about what the Minister for Finance intends to present in the budget. But what I want to say is that I think it's important to have a great commitment to the important industry that the food industry is. It is important that we have a comprehensive policy, including: in the case of a reduction in company tax, inter alia: by reducing taxes on wealth, including: by providing Norwegian business with good framework conditions. I saw that, in connection with the agricultural debate yesterday, what I called the Right Farmer's Women's Layer, foodmaking inside of 309 with local food from all over the country. There is a fantastic development in the Norwegian food industry, because there are so many local players in addition to the big, solid ones. I have great faith that the Norwegians will buy and eat Norwegian food, and that we will have a fee regime that makes it possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1526	The proportion of unskilled teachers has increased by 40 pst. under the government of Solberg. The revised national budget allocates 10 million. kr for recruitment work to get more people to apply for teacher training. But this is with respect not to report well enough when the situation is so precarious, and in any case not a measure that will give a single new teacher in school over the next six years. In addition, the teacher code shall be introduced from 1 August, without adequate funding. For Oslo's part, 350 teachers are missing from August and the norm is underfunded by 18.5 million. kr. Don't the government party take the right responsibility to make sure our students get enough qualified teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1531	If someone has taken responsibility for becoming more qualified teachers, it's the four bourgeois parties – where the Christian People's Party has pussiness for teaching standards, and where we've worked to get better quality in school. We have used approx. 1.4 B.C.E. kr to introduce the teacher code from 1 to 10 steps. The autumn of 2018 is 700 million. kr earmarked for compliance with the teacher’s norm. So standing here and claiming that we don't take this, is going to be completely wrong. Is there anyone who has taken care of this – is there anyone who is betting at school, the quality of teaching and a better everyday life for our children – it is these four parties. We've done far more than the red-green parties did in their years of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1536	I am pleased with the signal given by the representative of Greece about the 350-kroner limit, i.e. one has to look at it. It is clear that that kind of arrangement came at a different time. When we know how big the online trade is, it is quite natural, as the representative of Greece says, that we are forced to look at it. I still want to challenge him on another issue. It is now clear that eight of the top leaders of state companies have a total salary of over 100 million. kr. It is possible to create some limits in the Storting and say that one should not cross it and that limit, but it will break with ownership policy. But it's going to be sober. We know that the parties who are in charge of the system and who are in charge of the system are involved in the creation of leaders here. My question to the representative of Greece is: does he think it is problematic that we have as much money as over 100 million? Is it eight men who run these companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1543	We are talking about companies like Equinor – formerly Statoil – and the really big locomotives in Norwegian industry, and this is always a difficult balance. I think it's a lot of pay, but at the same time you can compare with foreign groups – what kind of pay do they have there? In any case, I know that the government is concerned that there should be moderation in the management salaries, and that one should hold back. It's more difficult to get hold of the big listed companies, but if you ask me directly, I think the salaries are violent for some of these group managers. So back to the $350 limit: when I said what I did, it was because I know that the Christian People's Party will discuss this. I expect us to negotiate a budget for the autumn, so there will be a debate, and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1551	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1556	It's going well in our country. Several have said it from the pulpit today, and there is reason to underline it. Now we see that optimism is back. Growth is increasing, and unemployment is low. It is good for the country and good for the inhabitants, but also good for the well-being and for the jobs. It tells us that the government did the right thing and had the right priorities when focusing on growth and value creation, that tax incentives, simplifications and positive incentives to get people to bet and invest in nutrition were the right medicine in meeting the oil price drop of time. It tells us that the policy is working. On the occasion of the revision of the budget, the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party have agreed in its tenth round of budget. It shows the strength on our side of the policy, this time well within the deadline and with an extraordinary calmness of the negotiations. I am happy both for the result and for the good cooperation, and I would like to thank the fiscal politicians in the government parties and in the Christian People's Party for a good political craft. In the 2018 budget, we prioritised lower taxes and continued to invest in knowledge, transport, health and a good service offer in municipalities. The Progress Party is pleased that the profile of the budget is continued through the agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party on the revised national budget. Politically, this revision is solidly implemented, spiced with good compromises from parties that are committed to Norway being a country where it is worth contributing, creating and investing. In particular, I am pleased that we have had an impact on the construction and rehabilitation of a further 700 days of care, and so far it has been arranged for more than 13 000 hospitals. The Progress Party will ensure that all older people will have a sick home place on the day of the need. This is why it is important to put in place, while continuing and strengthening the system of State funding. In the government's draft budget, there was a tax cut for microbreweries and small-scale beer producers, and this is now getting a majority on the Stortinget. For a lot that seems to be too high a Norwegian tax and that is concerned with reducing taxes, this does well. In addition, it helps to stimulate local initiatives, local jobs, diversity and short-term production of Norwegian quality products. It's good for agriculture, for the districts and for people most. In environmental policy, the approach of the Progress Party is practical and pragmatic. Plastic pollution is a significant environmental problem, and we are therefore very pleased with the agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party to re-prioritize 130 million. kr from the aid budget for the clean-up of sea plastics. This is good environmental policy in practice. We run the country safely. With the hands of the Progress Party and Siv Jensen on the economic steering wheel, the country is doing well. We are in our second period, and the Progress Party is now well established and has received significant routine as a governing party. With the danger of being accused of being unscrupulous: I'm actually very proud of that. In the spring we have needed the routine and the experience, for this spring, the Workers' Party and the Centre, having perhaps been a little cautious, or perhaps unfamiliar, in the opposition in the previous period, have shown that they are getting much more driven in that role. At the same time, parts of the opposition become less predictable and more radical. It is possible that the Workers' Party has been inspired by its partners in Oslo, the Environmental Party of the Greens and Reds. Or is it simply the political meat weight that tells the Workers' Party and Støre that there are on their even more reddish and greener comrades the reddish-green must lean if they should at all have the hope of taking over one day? This has made Stortinget in spring 2018 a place where there is not always a match between maps and terrain. Now we are on the last day of the session, and we will adopt the revised national budget for 2018. In this context, it will be necessary to stress the importance of the country's future presence of a majority of the Grand Duchy, committed to modernising and simplifying it, and of creating societies built to meet today's and tomorrow's challenges with lower taxes and fewer public intervention to stimulate private initiative, creativity and investment in new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1577	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1582	The fourth year’s tax surprise in the budget agreement was the strong jumps in the product tax on non-alcoholic beverages, chocolate and sugar. It has led to the lay-offs, redundancies and deferred investments in the sectors affected. Feeshops survive the revision of the State budget, even if the Progress Party’s national meeting decided to ask ‘the Deposit Group assesses the unfortunate consequences of the increase in various charges, including sugar and chocolate, and in this context assesses the reversal of the charges’. Can the representative Limi tell us what was the result of this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1589	The representative may do so. It is relatively short time since the National Meeting of the Advance Party. This review and what's going to come out of it, it's probably started, but it's not finished. I would like to stress that for the Progress Party it pains to have to be involved in fee increases. At the same time, it has been part of some budgetary settlements, because the whole of the state budget for which we have established a majority has been in the best interests of the country. Sometimes we have to swallow some camels, we have been quite honest about that. We did not want an increase in the levy on sugar and chocolate products, nor on non-alcoholic beverages, but it became part of a budget agreement, and it contributed to the establishment of a good budget, where there is also considerable relief for business in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1596	The representative pointed out in his contribution the tax reductions for microbreweries producing beer, as one of the things he was proud of or pleased with in the revision. You can see that, since you've been in government since the Progress Party, you've increased the fees by over 12 billion. kr. So there's some reductions, of 5.6 billion. kr, so that the net is 6,5 billion. NOK in increased fees. The tax rate for microbreweries has broad support here in Stortinget, but it is one side of what we have noted, and which I wonder has been assessed: there are other microproducers of alcoholic beverages, namely side producers. Is it certain that this discrimination will not be a breach of the EEA rules – that beer producers will be relieved, while side producers will not receive it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1603	This charge change, the relief, may not be introduced until it has been notified by the ESA. We believe that it is fully possible to implement this, but that is the reservation that lies there. Then we're going to hope that there's no EEA issue. What is important – because I perceive the representative there that this was like a little saying to rejoice, put into a larger context – is that we are also able to take care of small scale producers. We know that in many districts and too many in the agricultural industry, this is an important corollary, which requires investment. There's a lot of free work, and they create good products. Now they get a little bit better margins and maybe they can also take out some pay from the production they're doing. That is why I think it is a good and sensible proposal, and I am very pleased that it has broad support in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1612	It's not very elegant of the representative here when he gives others responsibility for heavy tax increases that he himself has been involved in, and he's just going to sunbathe in the shine of positive things. The Party has shown an eagerness to introduce new charges and increased charges without investigation and without the involvement of interested parties. It happened with the plastic bag charge – 900 million. NOK – it happened with the air passenger fee of 1 billion. kr, and last but not more than 2 billion in total for sugar and chocolate products and non-alcoholic beverages. kr. But when there is a need to reduce the fees again, it is all of a sudden that one should push it out in time and that one should investigate. Why is it that new tax increases can be made overnight, while when there is talk of making changes as needed, it has to be pushed out of the Progress Party on time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1617	I have always been a supporter of the fact that the political debate should be despicable, that different motives should not be attached to each other for which there is no basis. I do not distance myself from the budgetary comparisons that the Progress Party has been on in the Stortinget, rather on the contrary. I highlight these budgetary differences, because we have received a majority of good government budgets throughout the previous period and also now for 2018. At the same time, it must be allowed to clarify that it was not the government that proposed these tax increases. Nor is it the policy of the Progress Party, but it will be a whole that is good. I believe that we have to deal with this without being accused of taking a distance or trying to hang someone out. At the same time, several taxes may have an adverse effect on Norwegian business and, in particular, on border trade. This is exactly what our national meeting has addressed, and they ask the big group to look at the different charging components to see if it is possible to either make reductions or perhaps change the scheme on the fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1622	So these increases took place in the budget for the current year, with the votes of the Progress Party, the Left, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The government presented a revised national budget without proposing any changes to the fees. This is why there is a question when proposals for tax reductions will be made, or whether there will be tax reductions at all. Similarly, it's at the 350-kroner limit. It was increased, without the involvement of the industry, from NOK 200 to NOK 350, a problem for Norwegian business. Then it wasn't a challenge to do it without involving the industry, but when some of the parties in this room suggest that one should remove the limit, push it back out in time and say that then there is a need for investigation. Why is it that all measures in the Norwegian industry and the disfavor of Norwegian jobs can be implemented immediately, while the opposite direction must be pushed out on time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1627	It's not like that. Now the Stortinget has decided to ask the government to make an assessment of the 350-kroner limit, so we'll get back to it. I want to remind the Center Party of what they've done in the past. The centre party has requested an increased sugar charge. The centre party has wanted to increase the user charge. Now they want a sunscreen fee. They are against the reduction of tolls. That's the policy that the Central Party has faced in the past, and all of a sudden we can see that you're changing. I think the Center Party is wise to decide whether they're still for what they used to be for, and whether they're still against what they used to be against. This shift along the way appears to be quite winged. The Progress Party stands for what we do, and what we're in the Stortinget, and we're quite proud that we've got a reduction in taxes and charges of 24 billion. During the time we have been in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1635	I think there are some ambiguities and misconceptions in the government parties when it comes to tax havens and who they are for. This government, as recently shown, has given more than 10 million people. kr, one hundred times as large as those who serve at least. In the previous ageing period, they got 0.1 pst. with the largest assets of all 264 500 DKK in tax cuts. Nevertheless, we can still hear from the government parties that there are with the SV people the most will experience tax increases, despite the fact that our alternative budget shows that those who earn less than SEK 600 000 – i.e. most people – will get more tax relief than with this government. Then it might be a little bit unclear who are the most people in this country. Is it the ones that make less than 600,000 dollars, or is it the ones that make more than 10 million dollars? Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1642	I have not read SV's alternative state budget in detail – I should perhaps have done so. Our starting point is that it is right to reduce the level of taxation in Norway. It is right to look at better facilities for the benefit of businesses, too much of the tax relief that has been granted, has just gone to our businesses to get good conditions of competition – at the level of other countries. We've also given tax relief to most people. An average family, i.e. an average household, has got NOK 10,000 more to walk with during our period. Those who earn the most pay most in taxes. Even after they get tax relief, they do. So still, there is a distribution of the burden that is necessary for us to get money into the community and continue to have good welfare arrangements in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1651	Now we can enjoy the fact that the latest data from the SSB related to border trade show a decline in 2018, but we are all aware that the increase on the web and other factors are challenging anyway. I think we all, regardless of the party, want to reduce the border trade. When the Christian People's Party last sat in government, I know that a job actively with neighboring countries, especially Sweden, about fees to prevent that there is too much difference. Now it is not necessarily the case that the Progress Party supports all the high charges or customs in Norway, but at least it is a cross-political desire to protect Norwegian agriculture, or that one must have a restrictive alcohol policy in order to protect those who are most vulnerable, etc. These are some of the most important drivers in the border trade. Does the representative Limi think it is important to work with Sweden, and does it do so by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1660	Since the representative Ropstad referred a little to the story: we had even reduced the alcohol tax. It wasn't the Progress Party against, and it actually had almost a positive effect on the incomes of the Wine Monopoly. I think border trade is an increasing problem, because we see that the level of charges, i.e. the level of excise duty, is still very high in Norway compared to, among others. Sweden. That means there are some drivers in this border trade. It's both alcohol and tobacco, but it's also food, of course. Maybe that's where the big volume lies. As long as we have strict import restrictions on food and customs barriers, we will continue to face the challenge of significantly higher price levels in Norway. I think it's so clearly addressed now that we need to look at how we can take action to reduce border trade. The government will certainly also answer when you come to the budget for 2019 – without me being able to tell you what's going on there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1669	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1674	The revised national budget of the year has not created the major waves. Neither the changes that the government and the Christian People's Party have brought about have made headlines beyond what is to be expected in terms of a revision of the budget. Revised budgetary treatment has traditionally been a kind of small general debate at the end of the session. That's why I want to reflect a little over the curtain for the budget review. Last fall, both the Right Party and the Advance Party went back at the elections, and the majority model in the Stortinget from the previous period was lost. In January, the government was supplemented by another of the election's losers, the Left. It has probably created increased tension within the government, a government that has already at least tended to oppose its own government. This is far from simple facts, but it's also facts that I think the government parties would not want to take over, because it revolves around the government's eager communication work. Politically, enlargement has not meant any particular difference. The concept of the government is as it has been, namely a policy that involves a strong centralisation, the reduction of defence in the north and also an uncritical surrender of power to the EU, seafaring in addition to tax relief to those who have the most, and tax increases to people most. But also in Stortinget, the situation that has arisen has created a new dynamic. The government parties have developed a methodology here in Stortinget to create an illusion that there is a safe majority on which to build. I'm not going to go into tensions that obviously exist in the government apparatus, it's going to be a matter for itself. But when the issues first come to Stortinget, we see the following: the failures of decisions and comments that one cannot do with, where the government is overrun by the majority of the population, try to tone down strongly. One may have developed a pain tolerance when it comes to being depressed. At the same time, one sees that the government looks at and often deviates from its original positions and enters into the opposition's comments in the committee's position, obviously in order to avoid real defeats becoming visible in the public domain. We also see, as we have seen in the revised national budget, that the government settles on the opposition's premises or captures the opposition's position in negotiations with the Christian People's Party in budgetary terms. We have an example in the budget review of the much-mentioned ‘death fee’ to be removed. Now I had actually written in my script that I am not in doubt that in a few days' time the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party will boast and take credit for the removal of this ‘death fee’. But what I wrote into the script, I almost had to remove, because the representative Njåstad took the credit for it already now. Even now, in the debate, the Progress Party took the credit of removing a fee that two of the members of the Progress Party's own Ministers of Justice have fought hard to implement. The truth is that this is really a victory for the majority that existed in the Storting before the government and the Christian People's Party began their negotiations on the revised national budget. But what it illustrates is that you have a kind of opposition in position, where you choose to take credit for removing proposals that government governments have fought to put in place. The main picture after the big shot is that this government is facing increasing resistance. The dynamics of the Storting have definitely changed. In this context, I think one has two choices. You can do as you did with the Left, try to include the contradictions in the government constellation itself – but that also increases the internal tensions. The second choice is what we see in the big-time work of daily changing the policy to jeopardize a majority that you really don't belong to. At this crossroads, I just want to see that the government lives more dangerously than the media and most people probably have. We probably haven't seen the last episode in that series, it'll be interesting in the future as well. I'm going to spend my last minute on a proposal that the Center Party has promoted here today. We have submitted a proposal to wait with changes and redundancies in the Home Protection Agency of Stortinget has had the opportunity to review the Riksrevision's report on object protection. It is a very serious case from the National Audit Office which is now being dealt with in Stortinget. It is extremely serious that the government has not yet brought the basic protection of protective objects, in police and defence, in the condition required by the Security Act. We're going to deal with that for the fall, but Home Security plays an important role in this kind of object protection, and it would have been mildly said very unfortunate about the government pending that treatment building down the Home Security or canceling people in Home Security. It's not supposed to happen. That is why the Central Party has promoted the loose proposal we have made today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1695	It's going to be a line chord.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1700	The center party has a little proud story to show when it comes to CO 2 handling. The moon landing in Mongstad, where billions of taxpayers' money went up in smoke under the leadership of the Center Party in the Oil and Energy Department, remembers all. Today, for example, there is a need for: The centre party proposed that Fortum Oslo Heat should start its pre-project for CO 2 management by 1 July at the latest, before the quality assurance has been completed and reviewed. The project is more risky than the other actors, including: due to long pipeline, fear of discharge. At the same time, the cost estimate is significantly higher than that of the other actors. Why don't you call some bells at the Center Party, the same bells that should have called in front of the so-called moon landing at Mongstad, but didn't it? Why is it so important for the Centre Party not to wait for the quality assurance of this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1711	CO 2 work has actually gone into several phases. In the last period, I was in the Energy and Environment Committee, and then the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party – especially the Right – were very concerned that we had to move on when it came to CO 2 management. Then we've got some concrete projects on the table. Many of them are quite promising, but they are seaworthy on a much smaller scale than the Mongstad project. We've been eager to get them on. We think it's necessary to keep those ambitions up, but then we've noticed that the pressure has subdued a little bit from the Right and the Advance Party. They have no longer been equally concerned with those projects. The proposal we are making today signals that we are impatient, that we want this work to continue, and that one should not use any further investigation as an excuse for not having full pressure on the work. If the representative can promise that it will happen, we're in an interesting dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1722	This is not a signal of impatience. It's a signal of irresponsibleness. Then it's not right that you don't have the full pressure on the CCS projects, you go on with the Norcem project, and you wait for the quality assurance to come about the Fortum Oslo Heating. The centre party and Marit Arnstad say you're interested in moving on. You have to do the same thing. So, at the end of his post, Marit Arnstad was busy waiting for the National Audit Office report related to Home Protection, and that no changes should be made to Home Protection until reports have been submitted and processed. Why should it not be done for the Home Protection System, while for the Fortum Oslo Heating CCS system it is absolutely not necessary to wait for the quality assurance?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1729	The reason why I was concerned with Homeland Protection is that just these days the government is about to cancel both the cancellations and the removals in Homeland Protection. At the same time, the report from the Riksrevision that we have received on the table is very serious. It is really serious that the government, which was strongly criticised in 2015 and also until 2017 and 2018, has not been able to meet the requirements imposed by the Security Act with regard to basic protection of protective features. It's very serious. There may be a serious situation in Stortinget related to it. If in the meantime, in the months ahead, the government chooses to continue the cancellations, continue the demise of the Home Office, which plays a very important role for these protective objects, the government puts itself in – I think – a very unwise position, especially because the Riksrevision also points out precisely what is important, that the Home Office and their capacity are a crucial contribution in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1735	The representative, Arnstad, said that the defence in North Norway was built. It's directly wrong. The centre party has made it its trademark to disregard professional military advice, but neither does the party read the defense chief's annual report, comes in addition – well, well. The centre party did not include the purchase of new surveillance aircraft in its long-term alternative plan. At the same time, the party has worked actively to continue the Andøya Air Station. Where is the logic between not going in to buy new surveillance planes and at the same time being so forward looking to keep a base? A base condition is aircraft, otherwise it has no function.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1742	As far as I remember, the party leader was also asked about exactly this – it was the representative Rodum Agdestein who asked – and he recommended in so far as the representative Rodum Agdestein might be taking a trip up and see what is happening on Andeya, see the problem they have associated with the loss of personnel and material, and that they are in a transition period that can be very, very difficult. So now we see that it's coming American flights into Andeya. We see that there should be more to train on Skjold, and the question we are asking is whether to fill the holes created – when the Norwegian army is down-prioritised, and when Andøya is removed – with allied presence, instead of being willing to settle on the legs a defense that is a national defence to take responsibility on its own behalf. It's a very important debate, which very many people out there are concerned about. It is possible that the Harek Rivers and the Right believe that they have done things well, but there are enough people out there who haven't let themselves convince about it, so it's a funny paradox.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1747	I note that the representative is not at all ‘on the record’ in his reply. Today's army structure is the same army structure as it was in 2008, under the red-green government. The difference is now that this government is actually strengthening the Army. The army needs to be strengthened by 55 billion. kr in the current long-term plan. Already new artillery, new air protection, equipment for electronic warfare, new trucks, etc. have been contracted. Only in 2017 did this government strengthen the defence budget with the double of what the Center Party was able to do in its reign. Then my question to the representative Arnstad is: why was the Central Party in the process of leading both the Defense and the Army into a guided liquidation, as the Defence Chief described the situation in the Army and the Defence when this government took over? Why did you put that in jeopardy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1756	If things are as pink as this government is now saying that it is in terms of government defence policy, there are some things that are a little funny. One trick is that one has not been able to implement the last part of the land force proposition, which it has soon taken us two years after the long-term plan to discuss, where the government at each crossroads has said it will come back with investments related to land power, and has not been able to do so. Then it is funny that the settlement parties that the Right Party and the Advance Party have in Stortinget are very disappointed by the way the Right Party and the Advance Party are touring the defence agreement they have entered into. Then it's very funny that they haven't managed to convince people in North Norway – they're very critical – that they actually have a better defense plan. But if we now put it aside, the Harek Rivers and also the Right can chew on whether they will support the proposal we have today, that we suspend any termination and de-employment in the Home Office, so that one in a way does not prejudge an important and difficult debate that the Storting should have for the autumn, about object protection, which is precisely also the responsibility of both the police and the Defence, and where the government has not provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1761	Before the election, the red-greens painted on that it went very badly in Norway. They couldn't sell that story to the voters. The voters believed that Norway was doing well — it was doing well in Norway, and Norway is doing well. Now I hear the story from the pulpit that there are internal tensions in the government. Well, it's a big news that there are internal tensions between three political parties – which have agreed on a platform – but there has not been a government in the past, you can hear from the speaker here, which consisted of three parties where there were no internal tensions in their own lives. We may have forgotten all those who stood and demonstrated against their own government, against the Stoltenberg government, of which the representative Arnstad himself was part. The fact that there are internal tensions in the government, shouldn't really shock anyone, but that at all it becomes a theme, is a little surprising. I think you can tell the representative that the opposition here now depends on both the Red Party and the Green Party to form a majority. Then I think we should be very sure that we have a government – although it is a minority government – that rules, but we rule in a safe way. We've been able to do that for the last five years, and we're going to keep doing that, even out of this magnification period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1768	I don't know if I fully understood what was the question in this line, but I can reflect a little bit about the problem. I am concerned that there is an increasing tension in the government, seafaringly, when one has expanded it with the Left and it is still a minority government. Then one has lost the majority one had in the previous period with the Left, Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right. It is clear that there is a difficult situation for the government, and so do we in Stortinget. The position is set to move towards pure defeat. Representatives of the position are in opposition and vote against their own government or protest that they have been removed from proposals for which their own Ministers of Justice have worked. I think we're going to see more of that in the period. I think it's going to be more demanding. In its editorial, the newspaper referred to it as a kind of ‘false opposition’. I wouldn't have used that expression, but I think it's pretty significant that one actually can't hold together both in government and at large, but that one feels that a party that means one thing in government, chooses to do something else in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1775	I think what unites the opposition right now is really just one thing, and that's that they're opposed to the government. But they don't agree with themselves on any issues, initially. I think that criticizing the government for being a minority government, and that it has to seek a majority here in the Storting, becomes a very strange criticism to come with. In the last five years, there has been a minority government, but it has managed solidly and safely anyway. But the fact that there were no internal tensions in the previous government is what I'm responding to. And I'm reacting to the fact that because there are now three parties that have three different party programmes, which sit in government together, it will create unforeseeableness when it's just in a predictable way ruled the country over the last five years. Now we have the Jeleya platform. That platform is Left very pleased with. The left has joined the government with a stronger belief that we are getting more impact, and the revised budget that we have now presented shows that the Left has gained greater impact on its policy than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1780	I'm not criticizing that there's some kind of unrest and tension in the government. I think of it as completely natural and reasonable, and I see that it also gives expression to the bulk work gradually. I think it's important to get problematized exactly that development. We have seen several cases in which the Left in the Storing has voted against the Left in the Government, where the Progress Party in the Storing has voted against the Advance Party in the Government. It's an interesting and really quite new development in the Biggest that one chooses to do it that way – to distinguish a party in government from a party in the Biggest. I think that this has also led to some unforeseeableness, particularly in budgetary negotiations. That's what the Center Party has been trying to point out year after year: we've been wondering what fee we get this year, which has been negotiated for the eleventh hour, and which is going to hit people somehow, without being investigated, without having been consulted by the parties. Last fall, it was the sugar levy. The representative Raja mentioned Red here. In any case, unlike the Progress Party, Red will vote against the increase in the sugar levy, and that is at least a comfort.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1787	The President would like to remind the representative Raja that a line will end up with a question. So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1794	The diversity of power and wealth in Norway is increasing, and the best thing about Norway is at stake. The best thing about Norway is small differences and strong communities. On the point-by-point basis, the current majority is pursuing a policy that is going to break down precisely this, the best with Norway — creating increased disparities and weakening that community. What we need now is an economic policy for the many, not for the few – an economic policy that strengthens well-being, that balances differences, and that does not give priority to the economic elite, as the current majority systematically does. For example, the economic elite will be strengthened. through the tax policy of the government. There was a startling statement from the Minister of Finance here that the government had not given tax relief to the richest in Norway. Then there are many billions of dollars that have gone unattended when the Minister of Finance has been sitting and writing press releases about his budgets. Differences are increasing through market reforms that shift power. We have a good example of this today, where the rail reform that was supposed to increase competition and make more efficient use of Community money does not benefit train passengers, but instead creates more bureaucracy and more directors who get shamelessly high wages. So that's how you use the market to give more to someone at the top instead of strengthening the services that people most need. The government contributes to the trend of increasing inequality through changes in the labour market, where managers gain more power and workers less — through changes in ownership policy, where, for example, the Minister for Fisheries. do all he can to strengthen quota barons and shipowners at the expense of the coastal population and the coastal fleet. And that happens through unsocial cuts, where the people who have the least in Norway are invited to participate in financing the tax festival for them at the top, for example. the foster parents, as the representative Kaski has already mentioned, the many who have had increased abstinences associated with the necessary physiotherapy, miscarriage that has been cut in dependants supplements, or the many who no longer receive housing support. The list is long. The SV budgets present a policy that goes in the opposite direction: an economic policy for the many, not for the few, communities, not differences, people, not markets. Our budgets also respond to the second major challenge of our time, namely the climate and environment-related one – a settlement with the climate policy response that has only worsened since the entry of the environmental party Left into government, thus blessing the lack of action, and a settlement with plastic pollution and other forms of pollution, which is the environmental issue that the Nordics are most concerned with right now. Under this government, the oil directors get everything they're pointing at. When the right is out of settlement with the plastic, there is a settlement with the Storting's use of disposable plastics, not with those who make big money on plastic pollution. We need a new direction in environmental policy, a direction for the future, not pollution, for renewable energy, not fossil energy, a green policy for the many instead of a grey one for the few. I would like to add some comments to the defence policy too, since it is my committee responsibility, and since I have just heard, among other things. The representative of the Rivers is very proud of the government's efforts in the field. It amazes me, because what we are in the middle of now is a dramatic change in the course of Norwegian defence and security policy, where we are getting an intensification of the Americanisation of the defence of Norway and of Norwegian security policy, partly because this government has as a strategy to put itself closer up to the United States at a time when the United States is governed by political leadership that has never been further away from us – it is a funny timing in itself – and partly because the government does not have the power to find resources for the most important defence policy challenges now, namely to strengthen the Army, to strengthen maritime defence and preparedness in the north. Instead, the money goes to participate in warriors abroad and to an excessive and turbulent flight purchase. This policy can contribute to the opposite of what we need in the north. In the high north, we need a low voltage. Mixing the Americans more and more gives more tension instead. Our scheme is a scheme for a fairer distribution of power and wealth, for action against the environmental crisis and for greater independence from Donald Trump's United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1811	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1817	The representative Lightbakken is talking about justice and solidarity, but SV's solidarity does not seem to go beyond the people that SV knows at all times have the right to vote. It's not going to benefit future generations. What I am now talking about is the pension reform that was adopted in 2011, with SV's votes, and is expected to provide savings of 60-80 billion. kr annually. Now that SV is outside the government, they have suddenly become opponents of important elements of the reform. If SV gets an impact on its proposals for changes, we will not have a sustainable pension scheme over time. Those who lose it are not the richest, who can save private, but those who are totally dependent on having a people's security in the long term. My question to the representative Lysbakken is: What will SV say to the labourers of my generation and generations that come after, who must look far after having an equal pension if the pension reform is not continued?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1824	I recognize 100 pst. that the right and SV disagree with the pension policy. Nor should it be a surprise to anyone, because SV voted against the pension reform when it was adopted in 2005. The reason is that, unlike the Right, we're not class-blind. That's what the Right is in its pension policy – or maybe it's a little wrong, because the Right has always cared for them with the most power and wealth in our society. It's clear that many people have a strong interest in spending less money together in terms of popular security than what they would do with the old system, but it's not the ones the representative talks about, and it's not today's youth, at least not the young people who are going to be in the jobs with the lowest income and where it's most difficult to get a steady job. They're the big losers in the much more unsocial pension system we've got. It's the ones that get out the best, the ones that can be the longest in the job, the ones that have the least tiring jobs, and the ones that can save up large private pensions, that win. We're against that, and I'm actually proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1829	The economy of pensioners has been significantly strengthened by the right of government, in particular by the minimum pensioners. At the same time, we have passed on the elements to which SV also in 2011 was positive, precisely because one wants to take care of future generations, to which I hear that the Lightbaking didn't dare mention. In fact, I believe it is highly unsolvable to increase current pension costs heavily and send the bill to those in employment, when it is not sustainable over time, and when my generation cannot hope for an equally good pension agreement. The interesting thing is that, in addition to greatly increasing current pension expenditure, SV will also increase taxes by 20 billion. kr. So the bill that SV is unable to solve the government's tasks better is paid by those who are at work, and by those who create jobs. My last question to the representative Lysbakken is: How does he believe that increased tax expenditure, as SV adds to revised, will contribute to the creation of the jobs that will finance our important welfare society and will fund the pension system also for future generations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1836	We're both talking about future generations, or those who are young today, we're just talking about different people in that generation. The right is talking about those who are going to be doing well in the new system, about those who can afford to save on good private pension schemes. I'm talking about those who don't have it. I'm talking about those who are going to get the temporary jobs, which are low pay, and who are the losers in today's pension system. That we stand up for different groups in society is quite natural. One just has to stop pretending there's a generation where everyone is equal. We live in a class society where people are different, and we have different positions to which policies should strengthen and set. Yes, our proposals for pensions could have to be financed with some higher taxes for them at the top of society, but now remember that all the estimates on which the pension reform is based are based on our becoming much, much richer in this society. What the right really wants, and what the reform is based on, is to a large extent that the gap between private wealth and community will grow. We're against that. We can afford to ensure a good popular reputation for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1843	Oil and gas industries are the most important industries in Norway and account for hundreds of thousands of jobs. It gives the state as much income as the entire healthcare system costs. This industry thinks SV we should remove, and cancel all the oil workers. If it had been up to SV, we would have stood here today and discussed how to cut over 200 billion. kr in this budget without the oil revenue. When should the SV wake up and realize the importance of the oil industry and stop gambling with hundreds of thousands of family bread?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1848	Debates get so much better when you don't have to discuss a parody on your own policy. And since SV is not to remove the oil industry and cancel all the oil workers, I think I'm just stopping there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1853	I heard the representative Lysbakken harrowing about what Left has done in climate and environmental policy. I would say, from the last five years: no government has implemented more climate policy than the government that Left has been supporting, and now is also part of. It can be checked in fact. Lofoten, Vesterålen, Senja, Møreaksen, Skagerrak, ice edge, flat CO 2 tax, the electric car benefits that continue, the ferry connections, which are to be transferred to zero emissions, the national transport plan, where it has never been given more to trains, bicycles, times and collectives, marine litter, which the Prime Minister himself is going to break down against, a green shift, which is in progress, full-scale CO 2 capture and storage, which is announced – does the representative Lysbakken really not see any joy in this? Does he really think that the example of getting through climate policy in Norway is cooperation with the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1866	It's nice to meet you at the left again - long since the last. The lot has entered the government and largely disappeared. This is also the case in environmental policy. I am pleased with most of what Raja said. Much of that happened in the last period, through good cooperation between the environmental parties, both the environmental parties that were involved in some form of cooperation with the civil government, and we who were outside. What has now been looked for is that the Left has joined the government – and thus has been cut off from the possibility of putting that kind of pressure on the government. I think it's wise for environmental parties not to exaggerate with wild exaggeration. I recognise that the Left works for good environmental points of view, but it doesn't make sense for the environment if you make a picture of what you get, which makes it look like Norwegian environmental policy is fantastic right now. It knows Abid Raja is wrong, I know it's wrong, and everyone who's concerned about the environment knows it's wrong. And yes, it is certainly demanding to get good environmental policies with the Workers' Party, but I would not try with the Advance Party instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1879	This tone was considerably better, the top-and-down was very unpleasant. That's why it was necessary for me to take the slightly hard line. With all due respect for Lightbakken's vision: The left has actually got through much more climate policy together with the Progress Party than the SV managed with the Workers' Party, so I think we have to leave that piece behind. With regard to the Left's entry into the government, I think we must also have brought with us in the last four years. After all, it was the Left and Christian People's Party that helped to get the budgets into port in the last period, so that the possible climate efforts that have been made on the civil side also belong to the victories on the civil side. Now that we have joined the government – in January – and now, after a few months, have promoted a revised budget together with the other government parties, we see that there is a strengthening of the effort against marine pollution, up to 280 million. kr. We also see that it has also been announced that during the summer there will be news in CO 2 capture and storage, not in one, but in two plants. And we know what SV did together with the Workers' Party: it was the idea of some moon landing, which we know had completely crashed – and criticism in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1893	I think Raja is striking on my proposal to line up, namely to avoid wild exaggerations and glariness of himself. I think the environmental issue is worth it. What the Left has done in government is not amazing. The left makes an honest effort, but that's as far away from what we need. There is also no team to claim that what left gets is better than what SV got. The emissions went down the years we were in government. Then they began to increase under this government. And the change that has come after that again is dimmed in rainforest enemy palm oil. There is no coverage for these claims. I want to congratulate the representative Raja on a difficult job, and I pay tribute to him when he fights for the environment. But I have to say that I get a little worried when the self-image is so big on behalf of what you've got, because then I'm afraid that the left is satisfied with too little in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1902	It is not that self-image is so big in relation to what we have done, but the criticism is completely unreasonable. You have to look at yourself in the mirror and see where the majority of the Storting lies before you start criticizing another environmental party. I think what I can say with honesty is that the SV and the Left share a large community of values, both when it comes to immigration and integration, and when it comes to the view of foreign policy on a number of issues, in particular international solidarity and climate change. I think it would have been respectable if the Lightbox could have said that the Left has got it – with its message 4 pst. – along with the Christian People’s Party, something actually means that it means that the government is now taking the lead in the fight against marine pollution, that it means something that the Prime Minister himself says she will lead this panel, that it means something that it has been announced that a decision will be taken during the summer on CO 2 capture and storage in two fields, and not least that it means that one in the NTP has never before invested so much on trains, on climate-friendly transport, which is now. It would have been very nice to hear from the Lighthouse that this actually means something.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1917	Obviously, the chance of being met with roughness is bigger if you can show some roughness back. Rajas, like total black paint of the red-green years, doesn't invite just to roughness back. I said positive things about something left has been done, but which unfortunately is largely back from the previous period. Unfortunately, after the Left joined the government earlier this year, nothing important has happened in the area of the environment and climate. On the contrary, we have received the first climate communication and treatment in Storting – by a so-called settlement – ever that does not give us major, new measures, where all action is postponed, under an EU agreement that really means a postponement of action. It is in stark contrast to the climate agreement that came when we headed, which was a long step forward in climate policy, but which unfortunately has not been followed up by this government, and which means that we do not reach the emission targets that were set for 2020. It must also take a solid part in the responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1924	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1929	Today, when the Storting revises the 2018 budget half-way into the year and adjusts different budget lines according to developments, it is very good to be able to establish that most arrows point in the right direction – not least that the labour market is at monthly level, there are far fewer vacancies, the jobs are safer, the competitiveness of the export industry is strengthened, and there is growth in the number of newly established enterprises. To have access to a job is for the individual about the good life, to realize himself and the freedom of himself and his loved ones. For society, making it easier for everyone to get a job is one of the heaviest tools we have for social smoothing and preventing poverty, and those that go well and generate tax revenue into the community are a means for us to take care of and further develop the welfare society, the common security network. For this reason, a political plurality and a government that honors founders, investors, corporate owners, people who take a great personal risk of creating values for others, the community, depend entirely on. For the Left, it is also nice to be able to establish that a new pace of climate and research policy is working. Domestic greenhouse gas emissions are declining, researching and technology development for green technologies and green growth are contributing heavily to increasing the competitiveness of the export industry and such secure jobs that not only contribute to value creation but also contribute to greenhouse gas emissions around the world. For me as a Westerner, it's not least happy with all the exciting things that happen before green shipping, with a huge growth in new battery ferries and many exciting projects based on hydrogen as an energy bearer, to name something. Traditional large industry, as there is every reason to praise consciously bet on new technologies, new production lines, has in a few years gone from being emissions shifts to being a central part of the response to the climate problem. And with extra drag from a civil plurality conscious of technology development through the strengthening of Enova, climate technology advance schemes and SkatteFUNN, corner stone companies in many communities and district municipalities have gone from being the closure threat to being on the threshold of a new era. What are better district policies than safe, sound enterprises and private sector jobs? In this way, for a district representative, it is also unlikely that it is good to be able to establish that the optimism, the willingness to invest and the momentum are back in agriculture. And with the agricultural settlement from this year, with a record height of 770 million. The government has the power to balance for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises without going beyond the large ones. Then, of course, it's a paradox that when things go well for business and the economy, the space for action in the state budget becomes less. We have now left behind us for several years where it has undoubtedly been right with a kind of high use of oil money, even though he has been stretching beyond what the Left has been comfortable with. But with the growth and development that we are now seeing, the danger is that an ever-expansive use of oil money can stimulate the economy so that it goes beyond the two most important single factors for both business and consumers: interest rates and interest rates. Therefore, in 2019 the Storting must look at the fact that the automatic space of action of Stortinget has our privilege, becomes less monthly, and any and the will we have for real re-priorities is put to the test in a completely different way than the Stortinget has been accustomed to in recent times. Financial policy spokesperson did well for a part of the efforts that we again see after the Left came into government: knowledge and education are extra strength, a still heavy investment in classical environmental protection has been even heavier, among other things. with a total of 130 million. In the field of culture, we have made it easier to build sports facilities, strengthened the Film Fund and, not least, improved conditions for independent quality journalism, which may be more important than ever in view of the emergence of ‘fake news’. Finally, I would like to make a brief comment on one of the loose proposals, which relates to the motor vehicle class 2, which is the result of thoughtful efforts from mother to an autistic, soon grown-up gut. It shows that the Storting is able to turn around very quickly and already today make a decision that means that the government has to deal with that problem quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1950	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1955	I want to start with a quote from Elvesuen, from VG in November 2017: ‘The budget proposal has created enormous uncertainty in industry, and also internationally, that Norway will no longer have the leading role in carbon capture and storage.’ This was the Labour Party completely united with the Left in. Yesterday, Ketil Kjenseth, the environmental spokesman of the Left, said that there was no reason to have a hurry in the field of carbon capture and storage. How the Party Left, which likes to represent itself as a trader and an environmental party, can accept the creation of uncertainty, uncertainty and extra costs for companies that are required to engage in CO 2 capture and storage, is incomprehensible to most. Can the Left clear and guarantee progress towards investment decisions in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1968	Yes, of course, that's what we're doing today. We will later adopt a revised national budget to increase the rights to bet on CO 2 pre-projects with a total of 80 million. NOK 200 million in total. kr already in the 2018 budget. We shall proceed with the pre-project at the combustion plant here in Oslo. One thing is that it is important for the projects that this applies, but what is perhaps even more important is the signals that the government is now – with the support of a majority here in the Chamber today – moving on with it. It is not least exciting what is now happening even before Norwegian industrial and technological development, where a target of developing CO 2 capture plants of the next generation is near, which means that one has the hope of bringing costs down to a level that will ensure CO 2 capture is safe and safe, and can really contribute heavily when it comes to the greenhouse gas emission problem, but also underpins new Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1984	Earlier today, I asked a question to the fiscal spokesperson of the Left who I did not get a response to, so I try with the parliamentary leader of the Left: the left has shown a considerable eagerness to increase charges in Norway, and one of the charges that have increased most is parking charges at Norwegian train stations. A lot of commuters depend on the car for all or part of the trip. When the fuel charges increase, the traffic to the cities increases and someone chooses to park at the station and take the train into the city, introduces a parking fee and increases the parking charges. Since 2013, parking charges have been quadrupled in total in Norway. Parking fees are still being introduced in new places, including: in Akershus from 1 February: Fetsund, Årnes, Sonsveien and Lysaker. Why is it reasonable to charge a parking fee for those who want to take the train and park the car at the train station?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1991	This is a very strict question which has neither been raised nor directly influenced by any government. I assume that these parking agencies are something that Bane NOR has the right to do. I have not bid or worked in Oslo for more than 14 years, but I have traveled to Oslo for many years, and I believe it has our parking fee at Oslo Central Station since the morning of the times. If one inserts this into a certain context, the sums are reasonably low – as far as I know, 100-200 DKK per month for travellers who have monthly railway tickets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e1996	So here you have increased the fuel charges and increased the bomb charges to drive, for example, from Akershus to Oslo. When it can then be an alternative to set off the car at a train station to take the train in instead, yes, then a parking fee will be imposed at the train station. Does the representative Breivik think it makes sense to introduce parking charges and increase parking charges as much as you do? From 2017 to 2018 it is estimated that there has been an increase of 70 pst. in total parking charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2001	I don't think the representative listens to my previous answer. This is not something that I or Stortinget have had anything to do with it. I therefore propose that the involvement of the representative be channelled against Bane NOR when it concerns the parking fees. What I and the Left, the other government parties and the Christian People's Party have control of is a tax policy and a green tax shift in the transport sector that has de facto reduced the total taxes and charges before transport by approx. 2 billion. Net kr. This has led to results on the ejaculation side that is formidable, and the districts, which I expect the representative Gülsvik is busy, have now been given access to – call it – the district’s electric car, chargeable hybrids, at quite different prices than was the case a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2008	When the Left was outside the government, I and many with myself considered the Left as a blue-green/light-green party that wanted more effort on environmental protection, less greenhouse gas emissions and a transport effort for the benefit of the railway. The left will have rail-based high-speed rails, which are intended to take traffic from aircraft and private cars, as stated in their programme. Does the representative, Mr Breivik, think that the postponement of the InterCity extension for at least two years, which is now proposed, while the motorway projects continue just as before – not least continues the planning of anti-money-smoker, environmentally-free ferry E39 as before – is consistent with what the Left stands for?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2014	I will answer that question to the representative when the matter comes to Stortinget, after the Left of course has influenced what comes from the government, when the government advises the follow-up to the National Transport Plan. After all, it is now all referred to assessments made by the trade unions, not policy assessments. Then I can reassure the representative and repeat what the Left has contributed to the negotiations on the national transport plan: we also have a record high stake in the climate-friendly transport sectors in the transport plan – both rail, public transport and bicycles.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2021	I thank you for the answer, but I would like to refer to the proposal that SV has in connection with the treatment here today: we want to re-prioritise the funds to cope with the InterCity effort by taking from the major motorway projects that have not been started. My question to Breivik concerns the big bet, the ambitious bet, some will call it the hoarse bet, using funds on the ferry-free E39, where we have already spent – I would say – billions planning fjord crossings that may not be of any use. Maybe it'll just be an airlock. Does Breivik think that there is a reasonable use of funds? What is the position of the Left in relation to this major project now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2026	In the left, we are very pleased with the agreement we have reached in the negotiations on the national transport plan, where we have been able to prioritise the necessary road projects, while at the same time preserving the need to invest in the climate-friendly transport sectors, rail, bicycles and public transport. For the Left, the follow-up to the National Transport Plan has been – and it will also be in the negotiations that are to be held at the government chamber or when the government comes to the Stortinget – that one has at least as heavy a stake in the climate-friendly part of the transport, which one has on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2031	The State Council of Ketil Solvik-Olsen has strongly argued why it is wise that charges at Norwegian railway stations should be increased by 70 pst. The sum comes from the parking fee and increases by 70 pst. from last year to this year. His argument is that more people can bike or go to the station. For many of us, it's an impossibility to bike or go to the station. It is the responsibility of the government, and it is a deliberate policy to introduce fees and finance state investments with more revenue. I heard that Terje Breivik tried to talk away from it instead, but it's a political choice that you do it, and it's a government that Left is in. Why does the Left think it is wise to increase the fees for Norwegian commuters? And does the Left see that it's impossible to assume that everyone should be able to go or cycle to a railway station?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2036	In order not to bother the Stortinget to repeat what I have said before, I would urge the representative Schlagsvold Vedum to read the minutes and see what I answered his party colleague's question, exactly the same question twice before. I answered quite clearly that this question I have never been with and treated in Stortinget, it is a fee that Bane NOR has the control. Then the representative will read the details in the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2041	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2046	Today, we are adopting revised national budgets in a situation where the Norwegian economy is essentially good. Although, naturally, there are challenges, these are the more global challenges we see, including: in the case of barriers to trade, to which the Minister of Finance was also explicit in his statement. It is a paradox that we are facing a situation where the United States is acting as a threat to free trade, and where it is Communist China that defends free trade. Experience has shown that globalisation has brought great benefits – greater benefits than those who have opposed it, thought it would be. But we see challenges related to the distribution of the economic gain. We are adopting a revised budget today. For me, it is important to be clear what the Christian People's Party priorities in that budget. We give more teachers priority. We're now getting a teacher's norm in place from the fall. It helps to secure more teachers in Norwegian schools. This is what parents, teachers and elephants have in mind is the most important thing we can give to Norwegian schools. We know that it will not at least help the most vulnerable students. Having challenges to read and write when you're in 1st, 2nd or 3rd grade is not particularly alarming, but has a problem reading, writing and calculating when you're on your way into further education, then it's alarming. That is why an early effort must be made, and we are in and out of this budget. Then there is a system that has been important to the Christian People's Party in this budget, and that is the care arrangement. We are involved in ensuring an improved care allowance arrangement. Nursing money goes to parents who have sick children, who have children who require extra care. Just this scheme helps to ensure that parents themselves can spend time and resources and get paid compensation for this. This is also a system that is good and cheap to our society, because it is the best care the children can get, but also because the option had been far more expensive. It would have been institutions that would have cost millions. We are well implemented in good cooperation with the government party in the budget. But in this case, I will also refer to the party SV, which has been a very good ally to raise that perspective. The birth rate in Norway is now 1.62. Never as long as we've measured the birth rate, they've been lower than they were in 2017. Is it part of a debate on the budget? Yes, we know that our whole welfare community depends on us having viable birth rates ahead. Therefore, it is important that we focus on family policy, and facilitate it. Now I don't think that the fall in birth rates only has a bearing on the economic conditions of the family, I think there are other reasons for that. But the Christian People's Party is going to give priority to this, and the numbers we've been given now, show that we need to prioritise it even higher in the future. But in this budget we guarantee a flexibility that we can now combine kindergarten and cash support. That's very good. We get better leave arrangements for twin parents, multiple parents – there are important measures. But it also shows that we're content to prioritize this even more clearly in the future. Once again, the Christian People's Party is helping those countries that need it the most. It's important that we also have a perspective beyond our own country. One thing we have given priority to is the escalation plan that applies to children. We know that in each class there are on average three children who have experienced serious abuse and violence, and we, as big communities, have a responsibility to set up just these children. And then we also have a suggestion to do the 350-kroner limit. In the light of the debate that is now on border trade, I believe it is a wise proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2065	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2070	Football World Cup is in progress, and unfortunately Norway is not even there. But a field where we've always used to be on the pallet is within employment as a percentage of the population. Much of it has been due to the fact that Norwegian ladies have been very good at participating in the labour market. Unfortunately, we have fallen off this pallet, and this year we are the eleventh in the OECD in terms of the proportion of people at work. Among those in working age, one third are out of work. There are some immigrants, and it is important to get an inclusion diet, but there are also some young men. And we see that even though Sweden has received even more immigrants than us, they can have a growth in the employment share. It's hard, but one of the things that we know works is places of action. The Christian People's Party has been good at ensuring that we have such instruments in place. My question is: why do we cut 1 100 areas of action in this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2077	I agree with the description by the representative Lyngedal about what we have generally been good and foolish about when it applies, among other things. integration. We have been quite good at what is going on while we have our poorer on integration into the world of work. If we go to the United States, they have our good on the opposite. They've been good at just taking new countrymen into the labour market. I mean, it's a perspective where we have something to learn from the United States. So to the specific question. This is also about changes from the 2017 budget. We want to raise action sites in the future, but these are numbers back in time, which would not have benefited in 2018. But action places are just an instrument we should give priority to, and there will be a Christian People's Party to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2084	Norwegian defence has experienced a very messy and long process with regard to the new long-term plan. It should have been traditionally adopted two years ago, but then the government decided to set up its own mercenary, so that it would be treated later. Then there was a round last fall, where you couldn't conclude either. Among other things, people were exposed. the discussion around tanks and other important capacities within the Army. Then they came back to it in the revised national budget. It was also not possible to agree there and should then be taken up again in the state budget for the autumn. Now is the time for a new long-term plan – so there is a very difficult situation. One of the things that the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have agreed on is the discussion around Homeland Protection. The National Auditor gave a new report now, where they were strongly critical of the dismantling of the Home Protection Agency, and that the Home Protection Agency had too little capacity. There are redundancies in the Home Office as of today. Does the Christian People's Party believe that the notices should have been postponed until the Riksrevisions report and a hearing were held here on the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2092	I agree with the description given by the representative, Mr Vedum, that the priorities of the defence have just been left unsolved. We got a long-term plan that didn't have the land with us. We never got the chance to see the healing when the Storting was going to adopt the long-term plan. That was one of the reasons why it was difficult for the Christian People's Party to join the long-term plan. So that's how I'm glad it's added 36 million. kr in the budget, just to strengthen Home Affairs. It's important. It was also important when we sat down and negotiated the land. Then it was the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party that raised that perspective. We don't see any grounds for now taking a big new round in defence revised. That's because we think there's a need to look at both tanks and helicopter solution in the north. In the light of increased allied practice, it is important that we do not reduce the number of Norwegian soldiers while increasing the allied presence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2101	In the South-West, which is also the strongest area of the Christian People's Party, there is a great deal of anxiety now because there are redundancies and redundancies in the HR as of today, at this time. We have put forward a proposal in Stortinget today asking the government to stop redundancies in Heimevertet until the Stortinget has handled the Riksrevision's report on object protection in the autumn of 2018. Because when you read the National Audit Office's report, there is no doubt that they are strongly critical of the work that has been done by the government in terms of Home Protection and Object Protection. And we're going to have a wide round in Stortinget in the fall. Wouldn't it have been wise then that we had made a decision together, preferably all parties, where we said that we should not carry out redundancies and redundancies now? At least a thorough round had to be held in the Stortinget assessing the measures outlined by the Riksrevision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2108	I think what's important for Home Affairs now is to be calm, also to carry out the processes that are necessary. That is why I am pleased that we now have certain new millions to the Home Office through the revised national budget. It has been important for the Christian People's Party, and that has helped us to ensure through the agreement on land ownership. We are committed to ensuring a protection of the world that should also be changing. I think that's right. And there are some priorities that we also put behind us. But the Christian People's Party has given priority to Homeland. We did so in the agricultural agreement that we were in, and we are also involved in prioritizing it in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2115	We have now, through several lines, challenged the government of the major decisions that have been taken, relating to the shortening of redundancy payments and the daily allowance for foster parents. For there is something the Storting has decided twice that the foster parents affected by this should be guaranteed a transitional arrangement. However, the revised national budget states that the government does not find these parents, and it is requested that the Stortinge agrees not to follow up this request made by the Stortinge. Then it's pointed out in the revised national budget that the government is going to come back to this, but we can't see that it's somewhere. So the decision you are now making is to ignore the request decision. So I'm really wondering how the Christian People's Party and the representative Hareide will follow this up, so that these parents can secure that transitional arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2122	We have to stick to the answers the government gives to this question, but this is a topic that we've been busy about, and that we're going to follow up on. We have, as far as we have been able, gone into the matter, and we cannot give a better answer to it than the government is now giving us. But we agreed on a decision, and that's the censure, and we're going to work on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2133	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2138	The revision of the state budget for 2018 gives us a clear indication of how well the measures taken by the government parties and the Christian People's Party into the budget adopted last autumn have taken on the challenges facing the Norwegian economy. The economy has picked up after the recession that followed the fall in the oil price in 2014, and is now characterised by optimism and solid growth throughout the country. The budget, presented last autumn, meets the challenges facing the Norwegian economy, and facilitates conversion and green shifts. The broad lines are therefore continued in this revised budget. However, let me stay a little bit at the oil price drop, as I have now mentioned. The period under the oil price drop and immediately afterwards is actually a very good example of the fact that the Workers' Party has first and foremost become a party that produces criticism and little politics. I would like to say that, above all, is a sign of political laxity. The fall in the price of oil in 2014 led to a setback in the Norwegian economy, in which, in particular, the South and Western countries were hit particularly hard. In order to maintain employment in the industries and regions most hit, the government chose to present a targeted action package for increased employment. The measures taken by the government were intended to be temporary and structured so that they could easily be reversed when the growth of the economy began. The working party thought that time, as they often do in every other matter we put forward, that it was too small and too late. Again, the opposition primarily produces criticism and rhetoric and little policy. The Labour Party solution in this case has been to increase taxes on those who create jobs and to build up the public sector at the expense of the private sector. With fasitism in our hands, we can say that the government's policy was properly adapted and came at the right time. Together with low interest rates, a decrease in the crown and a responsible wage settlement between the social partners, the measures have boosted the Norwegian economy. Although we now hear an opposition that is most concerned with blackmailing the situation in Norway, unemployment is now at its lowest since 2009, and the employment rate rises for the first time in many years. In the long term, sustainability and competitiveness are affected by both how much oil we use and how we use them. The most important asset we have is not the oil. It's the people. It's the people who go to work and share in creating values in this society. There has been talk of differences and child poverty. But what is child poverty really about? Child poverty is primarily about family poverty. Family poverty is mostly about mother or father or both being out of work. That's where you have the biggest discussion about the differences in Norway. Who is inside or outside the labour market? Most often we find this situation in families with a minority background. This is precisely why inclusion is among the main projects of the government. If we are to facilitate a sustainable welfare society in the future, we need to convert the Norwegian economy, so that more people come into the labour market, and more people are more at work – not by increasing the tax burden and creating trip wires and speed absorbers, but by helping those who want to join and create new values, helping those who want to join and create a job for themselves, or wanting to enter a job by getting an education and getting on. This is where we see today that the big debate is between the opposition and the government parties. I would once again encourage the Workers' Party to use its remaining speaking time to perhaps present its solutions and ideas – not repeat its rhetoric and criticism, but rather present a little new policy, because we miss that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2159	It was a very confident prime minister we could read about in the newspaper this week, where she went to attack the Labour Party for our budgetary priorities in government. So she has so little to communicate with her constituents that she has to go back and start moving forward the state budget from five to ten years back in time. What she said, is so far true, that more money is the latest form of political activity that you can do, more money is the answer to those who don't have political solutions. But the problem is that the criticism doesn't affect the Labour Party; he rams Solberg himself. When the Right took over the government offices in 2013, there was no way of how many steps would be taken to ensure change and resilience – a government that, in its first debate of the throne, was ready to go to war against overwhelm policy and was standing close to waving the perspective message from the pulpit here in the hall. We see the contours today as well. The leader of the financial committee had an opening of this debate which could best be characterised as 'anxious'. It hails with rhetoric against and attack on the Workers' Party, probably because the Right Party realizes that the difference in life and learning from themselves is too great to defend. It is alarming to follow the government, which is still in the pulpit here and out in the newspapers and double-communicates that now it has to be prioritized, the bills don't go up. But it sounds more and more hollow. Retorics and speech points do not contribute to the budget balance. Not all the world's spins and attacks in the media can fix what's fasitizing. Already after the first state budget, it started to sing in the Right Glass House: record high money consumption, a total fee increase of almost 7 billion. kr, the introduction of a new 12 hour fee and flat cheese to make the budget go up. Thousands of billions of oil have been consumed without anything big left, and then we have the paradoxical situation in which all the opposition parties in the previous period provided alternative government budgets unless oil money was used less than government. The only priority that has been made – and it is in return made quite a whole heart – is the billions that have agreed to increase the differences, the redistribution from the bottom of the table to the top of the bowls. The reforms that this government has seen have not given either better budget balance or better services, either for well-being or for business. Police reform is an underfunded disaster. The regional reform doesn't get the right moment to create enthusiasm for its own. And the so-called ABE reform – with varying cuts, depending on how much is needed to balance the budget – does not dare the government to evaluate because they are afraid of the results. It is obvious to me that the political project of this government is primarily to be seated. The goal is to keep the most new dates possible. We also see that in the revised budget we are discussing today. It's a flat budget, with a roughly neutral budget impulse and surgically designed to provoke fewer possible. But it also cracks, because the lack of prioritisation — combined with the after-tax zeal — means that important societal tasks continue to be unsolved and underfunded. And on a case-by-case basis, it's the opposition that has to show the way. At a time when differences are increasing and people feel less secure in their working life, the opposition has to take action and tighten up the legislation on the labour market so that Norway can have a new employment policy for ordinary workers. Where the government still thinks it makes sense to subsidise foreign jobs at the expense of Norwegian trade in goods, it is the opposition that goes ahead to support Norwegian jobs and remove the 350-kroner limit. Where the government imposes new tasks on the municipalities without paying any money, it is the opposition who must come on the track and secure funding for the standard of living in the kindergartens, which even after the negotiations with the Christian People's Party is underfunded. Sickhouses need a lot more resources to deal with more, and there is no effort to get more young people to work and turn the dramatic increase in the number of young people who become disabled at Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen's watch. That's what's the reality, and that's what this government is being measured on here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2176	After a difficult period in the Norwegian economy and with a sharp fall in the oil price, so to speak overnight, the Norwegian economy is once again in positive development, characterised by optimism and growth. The economic policy has led the government has done well. Policies work. The government, with Prime Minister Erna Solberg to rudders, has led a bad course in an insecure time. The government has shown itself to be trusted by the voters at the last harvest. The situation in the Norwegian industry and in the labour market has improved further since the revision. Not least, it is gratifying that employment is now increasing and that unemployment is record low. In trøndelag, in fact, the unemployment rate is all the way down to 1.8 pst. Now. The price of the crown, low interest rates and responsible wage and salary settlements have strengthened the competitiveness of enterprises, not least of the export-oriented industry. There is optimism and willingness to invest in most industries and businesses throughout the country. With rising oil prices, a good economy, and an estimate of growth of about 2.5 pst. Or perhaps higher, there is now a need to provide a little less gas in fiscal policy. We have to, we're going to screen the dollar rate and avoid unwanted interest rate increases and uncontrolled cost increases. We therefore reduce the use of oil money and further adjust the use of oil revenues. After a good cooperation with the Christian People's Party, agreement was reached on the revised national budget, perhaps surprising to many, before the end of the deadline. The agreement implies the continuation of the broad lines of the current year's budget. This is the case in fiscal policy, where we have improved the framework conditions by significantly reducing the tax burden on businesses and households. We do so in line with recommendations from, among others. The OECD to stimulate growth. A lower level of taxation increases value creation and facilitates the creation of more jobs in private activities. The changes in machine taxes are such an important measure. We have more examples that make it easier to establish new industries in the districts. A number of microbreweries and small entrepreneurs are now cheering over tax cuts in revised form. The reindeer industry can enjoy the tax exemption on means of farming similar to those already enjoyed by agriculture. I am also pleased that voluntary action is strengthened by increasing the VAT compensation for sports facilities by 100 million. kr. In addition to this, we have provided a strengthening of the local economy to enable local communities to provide good services. A further reinforcement comes from the introduction of a standard of navigation in kindergartens. Furthermore, the government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, continues its efforts to simplify businesses. We are increasing the appropriations for research and education and for investment in a more modern, efficient and climate-friendly infrastructure. We get better roads and railways, and we digitize better. The main challenge for the future Norwegian economy is to become greener and less oil dependent. There's a big shift we're doing, and we know that there'll be much less room for action in the future economy. We need to be even more successful in including more people in the labour market, preventing exclusion, improving the efficiency of the public sector and, above all, creating new jobs. We need to do that, we need to be able to create sustainability for the well-being of the demographic development we have. There is an additional concern that several people have been concerned about here today that birth rates are now falling further. Here we need to look at new measures to reverse a negative trend. Even though we have a sound government budget and an oil fund of about 8 000 billion. kr, we are at the same time vulnerable in some areas. The International Monetary Fund, the IMF, has affected some of these conditions in its latest report on the Norwegian economy, where they also provide some advice. Although the oil fund is large, it is not large enough to cover future costs associated with an ageing population, large pension liabilities and the increase in costs we know will come in elderly care and health care. We have a small and open economy, and we are dependent on a regulated, predictable situation in international trade. The trends we now see, to protectionism and the establishment of customs walls, worry. Norway will lose, should we have a situation of trade war between important trading partners. The outcome of Brexit, which includes our most remote markets, the United Kingdom and the EU, is uncertain today. Another concern is the high level of debt in Norwegian households and the high price growth in the housing market, which makes many families vulnerable to unexpected interest rate increases. Today, however, we welcome the positive development of the Norwegian economy, which shows that the policy is working. Then it is important to continue it by holding a rough course.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2206	The Norwegian economy is going well. We are among the most privileged politicians in the world. At least we've been for the last 20-30 years, and we're going to be in the years that come too – even if we have to make tougher choices in the future. We've been privileged because we've had raw materials that the world needs, we've had a well-educated population, we've had few conflicts in work, there's little difference between people, and trust between us is high. When the Norwegian economy a few years ago was hit by a hard blow, all these factors helped us. Low interest rates and a relatively weaker krone reinforced the comeback, but politics also matters. That means a lot. It's not so many years since the government and government parties in one moment were accused of doing too little, too late, until in the next debate we were accused of doing too much, too early. We were told and told that the package of measures was not effective, that unemployment had stuck, and that the employment rate would forever be in a negative spiral with this majority. The representative of Moxnes from Red said in his speech earlier today that unemployment today is too high. In my constituency, South-Trøndelag, unemployment today is 1.8 pst. Nav has to go back over 30 years to find similar numbers. It's actually approaching being unhealthy, but at least it doesn't remind you of the criticism of the opposition. The alternative to this powerful policy that has worked is essentially a policy based on high taxes and charges for people most and for businesses. The opposition's eternal belief that if the state only gets another penny into an increased tax, then all the problems will disappear, never stop surpriseing me. In various shades, all opposition parties go in to increase taxes. At a time when change is the most important thing for our working and business life, the answer cannot be an increase in the tax burden on those who create the jobs. There will also be no green shift with red numbers in the accounts. So some of the specific issues that are mentioned in the revised national budget, and the changes that are now taking place. The Government proposes to continue the work on the capture, transport and storage of CO 2 in Norway into a pre-projection phase. This concerns the pre-projecting of Norcem’s installations, which are best placed to implement a successful project with good implementation capability and with good cost control. This also applies to the project of Fortum, provided that the external quality assurance authority has assessed new information and that it turns out to be something to go further. Everyone in this house, I think, agrees that this can be among the most important measures to get control of emissions. But it can't be that you uncritically throw money at different projects. We've tried that before. The five to seven billion. kr of taxpayers' money that was thrown away in Mongstad a few years ago, should be an example of terror and warning for everyone in this room. The problem is that only today's positioning parties have learned from the opposition's error. The opposition has not learned that very much. I think it's scary, and I think it's particularly scary that the Center Party throws itself at this again, together with the Workers' Party and SV, after joining the last so-called moon landing. It is not always the case that the aim is to allocate funds, and especially not when it comes to taxpayers' money. We're going to take extra good care of them. The ceiling for the development of the health care facilities of the lucky day continues, i.e. health shelters – this time with a further 700 seats – tax reliefs to microbreweries, which contribute to a diversity in the Norwegian silver world, a force for increased international attention and, not least, for action on the enormous challenge of plastic in our oceans. This is the result of the 10th meeting of the majority of the parties following budgetary negotiations. That it's been easy, maybe taking your mouth too full, but that we've got a good result, there's little doubt about it. It is the non-socialist side in Norway that has the capacity and power to renew, simplify and improve Norway. And we're going to keep doing that in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2225	This debate has highlighted clear lines of division. We have seen a majority showing zero concern about the impact on Norway's largest mainland industry, the food industry, of the tax shock adopted by the majority before Christmas. One shows no concern about the impact on the commercial industry, which employs over 300 000 Norwegian workers. One shows no concern for people in Norway with poor advice, which is once again hit by tax increases, despite the fact that there were clear messages – and they came quite quickly too – about the consequences of the increase in the levy on sugar and chocolate products and non-alcoholic beverages, which the majority decided before Christmas, without investigation, without the involvement of interested parties and with only three weeks for implementation. The consequences came quickly: Telemark Source Water had to quit half of its employees. Whale Chocolate Factory has also had redundancies. Second places have been invested on ice, investments in the hundreds of millions. There are major implications for the Norwegian food industry and the Norwegian commercial industry. I notice that there are people in this room who are trying to grab a straw through the use of numbers from the SSB, against which the SSB itself warns, when one refers to the last quarterly report. What is, on the other hand, much safer, according to the SSB, are the years for the development of border trade, and the title of the report referred to here in the Chamber, is that border trade is increasing, and that it has increased by 4 pst. in the last year, from a level that was already cloudy. I also notice that the majority in this Chamber still have a touching concern for foreign actors who are currently making huge money on a solid hole in the Norwegian tax system through the 350-kroner limit. In particular, it should be noted that once again, when it comes to decisions that will benefit Norwegian operators, Norwegian jobs and Norwegian tax revenues, a shift will take place in time, and one argues with investigation. But when it comes to charging increases that come as a shock, which affect Norwegian jobs and Norwegian consumers, or it's about, as one did in 2014, to increase from SEK 200, as it was before, to NOK 350, which was a further, pure subsidisation of foreign players, then it does it completely without having dialogue with the industry, through a brief reference in the government budget. There is a clear line to this, and unfortunately there is no national interest concern. The same applies to the tax regime applicable to non-resident workers, which is currently being adopted. It is a tax system that allows individual employees to choose for themselves the tax that gives the lowest tax. There are significant challenges related to the taxation of foreign workers in Norway, not least because the volume of foreign workers has become so high, as a result of free labour migration and unregulated labour immigration through the EEA Agreement. But then there must be a grip on that problem and strengthen the controls. If one is to have another tax scheme, one shall not make it optional but shall ensure that it has a tax scheme that is clear and clear and is covered by all. What you're about to put in place is an optional scheme that the individual can choose. This is a purely tax subsidy for non-resident workers, which will be in the clear disfavor of Norwegian workers, who are already under severe pressure on the labour market. One thing has been clearly stated in this case. It was referred to the debate that we had earlier this week about this very question. The State Council of Siv Jensen then said that the main reason why the scheme is optional is EEA law. There is probably an example of EEA intervention in Norwegian legislation. The centre party has a clear and different priority in our alternative budget. We give priority to strengthening services that are close to people throughout the country. We give priority to the preparedness and strengthening of the fight against crime at work. We're taking the fight against centralisation. We prioritise Norwegian interests, Norwegian jobs. This is what we do in many individual proposals we have up to. This is a clear line and a clear priority on the part of the Central Party, as we stand on in the political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2242	The Labour Party believes that the most important thing for Norway is to be the most important thing in our policy. Therefore, we are most concerned with work, security for work and security in work. The employment rate falls, especially among young people – this disorder. But also the dramatic increase in the number of disabled people on Solberg’s watch, Uroar. Worker's game spends the big money on the big tasks: in hospitals, so that several patients can be treated in school, so that learning density can be increased on several babysitting crops by the elderly in the climate-friendly industry and climate action on measures to reduce the disparities in society and to strengthen the community Nordmen, tensing over 10 million. kr, has received since 2013 a tax cut that is 100 times larger than the one that has received between 150000 and 250000 kroner. Is that fair? Here I could also have added that this also makes the differences between women and men increase, for the majority of those who charge more than 10 million dollars. kr, are men, and there are similar numbers of women in the low-income group. At the same time, the government has cut off the benefits of the weakest groups in society. Property and charges are increasing. The paycheck is approaching 7 billion. kr. The fees cancel out for everyone. There is no distribution of values through the charges, as is the case with taxes. This is unsocial, unfair, and it increases the differences between people. The Labour Party has proposed another tax model. The ones that tens over 1 million. kr, must contribute more, and those with low income will receive tax cuts. It's fair, it's supersampling, it lessens the differences. In addition, there are a number of changes in the tax regime of the government of Solberg which have been detrimental to the individual employees, for example: that the trade-union deduction should not be increased, that the unemployed should not receive holiday pay, taxation of termination benefits, expenses and lodging rules and the commuting deduction. There are too few jobs created in Norway, and there is no good idea of subsidising foreign workers. When it comes to the proposal that makes it more profitable for foreign workers than Norwegian workers to work – yes, foreign workers will be left with several thousand more dollars because of a flat tax of 25 p.m., and this will cost our society 50 million. kr. Nor will the government put an end to the subsidisation of foreign jobs, by the fact that online trade should be less than DKK 350 without customs duties and VAT. I also need to look at the precarious situation that the business community has experienced because of its nightly decisions on increasingly new taxes in order to bring the budget together. The hotel industry, the important district industry, has twice received a Christmas presang in the form of VAT accumulators. Aeronautics received an airspeed fare. Last but not least, it was the product and sugar fees. We have not yet been given any clarification as to what the government thinks there should be fewer VAT rates. Should it be one or two? How much more do hotels actually have to pay in VAT? Furthermore, the government will not agree to the impact of its own decisions, for example: cheese dressing, or support the Workers' Party's proposal for a total review of the product and sugar levies. Business needs good framework conditions, and municipalities need them too. Municipal income has been afraid of the tax conversion for two consecutive years – not of the government's transfers. This year, municipalities are to be emigrated by means of the marine fund – completely without taking into account the fact that this varies greatly from municipality to municipality. I'm going to pay the municipalities every penny – they're going to be well-being – but the transfers have to be tough. There were also no clarifications about the billion that municipalities are missing in property tax income. The government's trademark has been a lot of unincorporated tax dollars that frame the many, and tax dollars that benefit the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2289	The government has presented a well-audited budget, a budget that clearly shows that the country is on the right track. Together with the Christian People's Party, we have achieved a good result, which continues to build the country at a time when technology is evolving, people are moving on, and the burden on the welfare community and welfare systems is increasing. Unemployment is falling, growth is on the rise, more are completing secondary school, and more are receiving faster health care. Norway is the world’s best country to live in. Wise politicians before us have made sure that we have an oil fortune on the book that can also distribute the money over the future generations. And to make sure that we have a country that maintains its competitiveness and value creation, this government has increased the oil money usage targeted during the oil price drop we have set behind us. It's been the right medicine, and we've been through the crisis that has characterized the South and Western countries in particular. Now we're in a different situation. Now that the arrows are pointing up, it is important that the public money is pointing down. Even though the space for action is getting smaller, we should never forget that this is fundamentally positive. It is positive that Norway is no longer in a crisis of unemployment. It is positive that more jobs are created every day. It is positive that Norwegian exports are increasing and that the profits to Norwegian companies are starting to recover. We need a business that continues to invest, continues to research, continues to develop new, innovative solutions that pave the way for new markets and increased sales. It's not the government budget itself that creates values in this country; it's the value of the work that individuals and businesses do every day, which creates tax revenues, which is once again distributed to the welfare society that we're all proud of. But this is exactly what I'm not so sure all the parties in this room have understood. It is one of the main objectives of this government to provide lower taxes for ordinary peoples and businesses. That's why this government has cut taxes by over 24 billion. kr and leaves a normal family of young children with NOK 10000 more per year. But when I say that there are parties in this room that haven't completely understood it, I think on the left-hand side. Firstly, we have an Workers' Party which in every budget increases the wealth tax – a tax that only affects Norwegian owners, not foreigners, a tax that affects, whether you go in profit or loss, a tax that has led to family companies that own shipyards along the west coast having had to take out millions of dollars from their own savings buffer at a time when they are fighting to survive. These aren't cases of wealth, these are the peoples of business that keep our territory going. So when the Labour Party representative Holen Bjørdal tells the Maritime Forum in More and Romesdal that the wealth tax is not perfect, I would say it is a powerful understatement. But it's not just the wealth tax the Workers' Party will reverse back to old heights. No, they also oppose the removal of machine taxes – another reversal of a tax burden to the economy that keeps the country going. It would have been nice if the Workers' Party during the debate could have confirmed that in the next year's alternative state budget they will also reverse the relief to business, at a time when the transition is at the top of almost any business manager's agenda. The removal of machine taxes has already led Norway to be an attractive country to invest in. When major actors such as Statkraft report that they are now ready to invest in Norway immediately after the change in the tax, this is evident. I know that the Workers' Party believes that it is clear that the data centre has always been exempt from this, but it has not been clear. That's exactly why we're proposing to remove this provision in the law. It comes from a time when the industry was something quite different from what it is today, and it turned out to be difficult to practice, both for municipalities and not least for the courts. Once it has been removed, Statkraft’s Managing Director says directly to Reuters that the change in the tax law in Norway has led to Norway’s becoming a more attractive country to invest in. So the Workers' Party would like to repeat the same thing for itself as long as they're working, but I'm listening to business, and when giants like Statkraft say that the change has led to easier investment in Norway, I think the Workers' Party should support the scheme. Tax is not everything, but tax is one of the most important framework conditions to which our business relationships relate, and I think that in fact many business managers would rather have predictable framework conditions than somewhat worse framework conditions. At least you know what you have. The question of the Workers' Party will then be: Will you continue to charge more taxes, move the money to Oslo and distribute it beyond, or will managers and ordinary people retain more of their own income and create jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2312	One of the repetitions of this spring, and to the extent of today's Chamber, has been the so-called 350-kroner limit – i.e. the possibility for people to stay at home with themselves, in urban and rural areas, anywhere in Norway, and to order small and large items or objects it can be difficult to get access to in Norway. Very much of what is purchased is small things of little value. Anyone who has children and young people in the house, or who uses eBay or other websites frequently, knows very well that quite a lot of what happens in the mailbox, would never have been bought if the cost of the product had been several hundred dollars more. It is not difficult to understand that the threshold for using 30 kroner on a product is quite much lower than spending 230 kroner on the same product, which will be the consequence if you do as the Workers' Party and the Centre Party will, and only remove the exemption overnight. The rejection effect of the imposition of VAT and high charges is likely to be such that in very many cases the purchase will never be carried out. That is why it is a little special to listen to many of those who produce the tax exemption almost as if it is raging both the manufacturing companies and the commercial industry in Norway. Claims from stakeholder organisations that society is losing thousands of jobs and billions of government revenues are swallowing up raw and without reflecting on the real realities. But it is not possible to use all online trade from abroad to find the value of goods imported, because very much of what is traded online has a cross-border value and is therefore subject to VAT already today. Nor can it be assumed that all trade that goes online today will be transferred to Norwegian operators, or will continue to be purchased online, if the fee causes the price of the product to be multiplied. When you're talking about having the same solution as e.g. Finland has where VAT can be paid even when it is imported, and we already have such a solution today. However, you as a consumer are in any case charged with a storage/dispatching fee of 158 kroner and upwards. Calculations made by Oslo Economics on behalf of the Post Office show that removing the VAT exemption for goods under NOK 350 will produce quite different results from what has been stated here in the Chamber by referring, for example, to the following: It's a report. For example, Oslo Economics has estimated a growth in the commercial industry of only 3 to 5 pst. of the claims made by Works. Increased employment is intended to be between 200 and 350 years old, which is a quite different result from the 6000, as claimed by Works, and which many in the Chamber have supported. I really didn't think the $350 limit was one of the things that would get so much attention this spring, but it might say something about how important the matter is to most people. The possibility of this tax exemption is a good thing for our citizens. I think it's sad that many later on as if it's a crisis to allow people to continue shopping online without being forced to fill out various forms, or be charged new and high charges. To be able to shop goods online from abroad for up to 350 kroner is adding to the range of the many successes that the Progress Party has received in government, because we are dedicated to making everyday life as simple as possible to people. Our focus is that the total tax burden should continue to go down – not up, as the opposition in the hall wants. When the party in government has been able to accept that some taxes have increased, it has been absolutely essential that other taxes have decreased. Therefore, it is also good to point out that when the opposition criticises us for having agreed to some tax increases, the real truth is that we have reduced taxes and taxes by over four times more than they have increased. In this way, this exemption may also be a symbol of a policy in which the Central Party and the Labour Party again fight with beaks and claws to introduce higher charges and more bureaucracy, and then likely to criticise the Progress Party for the result, no matter what it should be. Old habit is bad to turn around. The politics of the Central Party and the Workers' Party are still the same as it was during their red-green reign, even if it is wrapped in a little other words. At least then it is good that the Norwegian people have the opportunity to continue voting on a party that stands by them and fights for minimum taxes, taxes and bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2327	First, Mr. Wang Soleim. He knows very well that we are together on a tax settlement that sets the level of income and corporate taxation. We do not agree on taxes on wealth. He says it only hits Norwegian owners. No, it hits all the Northmen with a fortune of over 1.5 million. kr, whether or not they own a business. It's fundamentally redistributive, and that's how we've created one of the world's best countries to live in. So let's see what I'm really going to say. The Labour Party believes it is important to use the whole country. Different parts of the country have different advantages, and our natural resources are by no means centralised. We need to create jobs across the country to take our natural advantage. In the Nordic region, we have several major industries linked to our natural resources, whether it be hydropower, fisheries or minerals. The fact that more people live and live there means that more of these possibilities of nutrition are being put into practice. But sometimes it leads to a one-sided business structure, and complementary jobs become important. Therefore, state jobs are also important around the country. The Labour Party therefore believes that the construction of new state jobs should come across the whole country, especially outside our larger cities. Under this government, Oslo has received 4,000 new state jobs, and almost 25 pst. of all jobs in Oslo are now state-owned. Trondheim has received approx. 2 500 new state jobs. In Northernland – and then I am talking about the whole county – 15 new state jobs have come under this government. In Mo in Rana, we have the country’s most remote competence institution for collection – the central body of the state. It is that part of the tax base that has received the most awards and awards for its efficiency and innovation. We know that the government decided to locate division collection in the tax rate of Mo in Rana. That would be natural, as we there have Norway's best competence at the invitation. But unfortunately – the government chose Trondheim. And I remember what I said about the distribution of jobs between Nordland and Trondheim. Why do they do that? It is difficult to answer, but at least it is not justified to use the whole country. As in so many other political matters, there is a long way between what the government and their support party say and what they do in practice. We have no doubt that there will still be employees in Mo in Rana. But where you put management, it's important for the development of an institution. We invite all parties who want to spread state jobs around the country to vote in favour of the proposal we are promoting today, together with the Senterpartiet and SV. The development of fishing ports is the area of the national transport plan where the government delivers the worst. All planning of new fishing ports in the Coastal Plant has now been stopped and responsibility for planning has to be transferred to the counties on 1 January 2020. Regions do not assume any responsibilities until 2020, and they have never before been responsible for planning and developing fishing ports and have no competence in them. Knowing that the planning time for fishing ports is from four to six years, this is critical to facilitating modern coastal fishing. No new projects will be launched in several years. Meanwhile, boats are getting bigger, and the practical problems along the coast are getting bigger. The Andøy community has been in a very difficult situation due to the closure of Andøya Air Station. They have a claim that the big community prepare for them and make a successful transition, a responsibility that the Workers' Party is ready to take. Unfortunately, we have to find out that the government is failing. Why do we have special expectations for the Andeya government? Well, that's because this government in the autumn of 2016 asked the Stortinget to shut down the Defense Air Station on Andeya because you wanted to save $200 million. kr per year by locating it with the new fighter planes on the forward base of Evenes. It is a difficult decision for all who care about Andøya, but it is precisely then important that the same majority who decided to remove 300 jobs from a municipality with 5,000 inhabitants bets on the second advantage of the Andey community. That is why we have proposed not to stop halfway in the planning of the fishing port of Andeya. We're proposing to allocate 25 million. kr, which means that you can complete the planning and also have enough for a smaller start-up grant. We also know that Andøya has great opportunities in space technology, and where the government is borrowing Andøya Space Center 20 million. kr, we grant 25 million in the revised national budget. kr to Andøya Space Center.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2348	Norway needs more legs to stand on. We have to create more industries to live off as well as oil. The right and government therefore began the conversion as soon as we entered the government. Taxes went down, and investment in knowledge, research and commerce went up. Since the fall in oil prices, Norway has been through difficult times, and we, who live in the most vulnerable areas in the South and West, know all those who lost their jobs. The demanding situation made the transition more acute — and the government therefore acted resolutely. The government put in place measures that were effective against unemployment and kept the wheels running. It saved a lot of jobs. At the same time, we continued to focus on knowledge, research and transport. It now contributes to results. There are few things that please me more than seeing that many in the neighborhood now come back to work. Unemployment is falling, growth is rising, new jobs, new apprenticeships and great values are being created for the community and our common well-being. The Minister of Finance was recently visiting Rogaland, where business and Nav could report an increasing optimism. Politics has worked. Now the times are better, and the economy is in clear recovery. That's why we also have to use fewer public dollars, and we're now reducing oil money usage by 5.6 billion. kr in the revised budget. It's both responsible and wise. That things go better, don't be a rest cushion. We need to create more jobs and convert the Norwegian economy. As many people know, the government has made simplifications that save business more than 10 billion a year. NOK, and we're going to continue this work. We've reduced the tax and tax rate by 24 billion. NOK, and we're going to continue this work. Now let's remove the machine tax. Today's rules have been unforeseeable and created uncertainty for investment in new jobs. Now we remove the doubt, and several companies have already reported that they will start up and expand. It promises good for more secure jobs in this country. Norway is also a proud port. Over the years, we have reaped the resources of the sea. Fish and oil are central to our prosperity. Now the world's oceans are threatened, for every year 8 million are dumped. tonnes of plastic. It's like a full garbage truck drains 15 tons of plastic into the ocean every minute, every day, all year. If it continues, in 2050 there will be more plastic than fish. It is a threat to both fish, bird and animal life, to the seafood of which we are so proud, and to our own use of beaches and seas. We can't accept that. Both for our own part and for the part of the world, we have to take responsibility and clean it up. The government and the Christian People's Party have already done a lot to prevent plastic from entering the sea, and to clean up what is in the sea. In the budget now, we are increasing our global effort to combat marine pollution by 130 million. kr. It's almost a double. We have to do more for cleaner seas and go with the world community. It will also be important for future jobs in Norway. It is a great pleasure to state that this is the tenth budgetary unit where the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party meet together. The bourgeois majority who regained confidence last autumn shows both the ability and the willingness to find good solutions for the country. The fact that the budget agreement was made in good time before the deadline shows that civil cooperation is good. We're going to create more legs to stand on, as well as oil, and we're going to create more secure jobs. We're on our way. It's going forward with this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2376	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2381	This revised budget is a neglected opportunity to change what goes in the wrong direction, because it is unusually passive in view of two of the trends that should also concern the right parties: there are too few of us in work, not because the registered unemployment is so high, because it sinks, but because the proportion of the labour force in work is too low. We were at the top international. Now we're not even on the score slot. We need more jobs, especially in the private sector. Differences are increasing. One of the hallmarks of our social model has been small differences between people. Small differences are important because it is fair, but also because it is productive and facilitates the transformation into business and society. In the light of these developments, the government is too passive. Since the elections, there have been no policy measures of importance, even now. Most budget changes are of a technical nature. When the government continues to highlight the need for change, it could be expected more from a government that claims that simply proposing more money is political laxity. For this reason, a budgetary adjustment is currently adopted which does not adequately support in the course of work, necessary conversion and well-being. The government does not pay for the standard of living in kindergartens and does not compensate for an excessive growth of activity in hospitals, although revenue increases by 7.1 billion. kr. When a relatively positive picture of the Norwegian economy can be drawn, we can first of all send a great deal of thanks to the social partners. They provided responsible wage settlements. We can send a thank-you to a weak crown – even if the vacation abroad is a little more expensive this year – and at low interest rates. What the government has contributed is primarily a high use of oil money, what the right now calls laxity. Then we should be aware that at the same time there is a significant risk of a weaker economic development internationally, not least linked to American policy. Threats of trade war, protectionist measures and sanctions against Iran may also affect Norwegian and European companies. This may provide the basis for unexpected trade and economic downturns that could affect growth also in the Norwegian economy. There is a consensus that the future space for action will be smaller. Then I expect the first government to go away, the tax relief for those who do not need it, and that in the budget for the autumn they will ensure that the tax bribery hole represents a free online trade below NOK 350, as well as that they will provide a thorough review of the product, sugar and chocolate charge and how these affect consumer behaviour, public health and our food industry, as the Stortinget decided on Monday to ask the government to do. After all, it's one of the most important and largest industrial workplaces we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2396	It is going well in Norway, as we have heard. The availability is low, the economy is growing, and we see a good local economy, which contributes to important welfare services. In the field of knowledge, the government and the Christian People's Party have pledged to arm Norway for the future and contribute to conversion. From early childhood, into primary education and to world-leading research, we are involved in raising society and the opportunities of business, and not least competitiveness. Let me first draw out our boost too early. The most important thing we can do to give our children a good start in life is to start right there. In kindergartens, we have deployed additional resources to focus on quality and content, to introduce free core time and to reduce parental pay, and to help everyone, regardless of background, access to this important social development and learning arena. Means of introducing a standard of manning and several pedagogues are building on this. In addition, we use funds and statutory obligations to strengthen the transition between kindergarten and school. In a few years' time, we have been given initiatives that will give a better start in life for more people, and not least help with measures that will provide a good meeting with the school. It's about giving our kids a mastery feeling. It gives learning joy, and it builds confidence. Increased self-confidence contributes to lifelong learning. Early success, therefore, is at the heart of the Right’s policy. Since the government change, we have had a solid change of course from late to early work, including in school. The left-hand side has long talked about more teachers, but in its eight years only delivered a few hundred at the end of the ten-year primary school cycle. By comparison, we have so far received several thousand fixed doctrines and a special lift against the childhood. With the introduction of master training for teachers, skills requirements and further training of more than 20,000 teachers, we are making a strong contribution to our young people being seen and getting the best possible schooling. The result shows that we're on the right track. The students learn more and are more at school, and more complete and exist. In research and development, too, we strongly rate. We can enjoy a positive development. Recently, we made a record. We've passed 2 pst. of GDP for research and development. Business, academia and our institutions are delivering more and more resources in international competition, especially within the EU. That's what we're preparing for the future. That's how we build competitiveness. Thus, the Norwegian school and knowledge sectors do not need a red-green school policy or a knowledge policy – old solutions – but more of our policies. I hope the voters will also see that at next year's municipal elections. We need more forward-looking and active civilised municipalities in the field of school and knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2411	To all those who had to live in the error that Red is a party occupied by the generations of the future, it's just to say that with their alternative, they are making holes in the oil fund. They have an alternative where they're missing over 1 billion. NOK, actually almost 2 billion. kr. It's irresponsible to lack so much money in an alternative budget, but then there's also a lack of some of the things that characterize communist societies, like the people, but obviously also for communist politicians. The working party budgets for non-existent money. Clearly, there has been a trend on the left. The Green Party and the Central Party do the same. It's a little bit strange that three batches trying to do the same problem come up with three completely different results. The Greens believe they have 400 million. kr, the Workers' Party believes they have 740 million. kr, and the Center Party believes they have over 1 billion. Extra kroner. The truth is that the money doesn't exist. It's going well in Norway. Of course, things can always go better, but the time off is coming down, and the growth is coming up. Where did the Workers' Party's rhetoric go too little, too late? It disappeared like dew for the sun, for it was never true. It was never fair. Then I record that the climate initiative is still on the civil side, and it has been for many years. During this session, the SV and the Central Party have voted against cooperating on renewable energy in Europe, and the Workers' Party, SV and the Green Party have abandoned the idea that large emissions can be achieved in Europe by cooperating with other European countries. That's special. The Labour Party has been opposed to cooperating internationally on climate policy in Europe. They tried with a proposal for transport and storage within the CCS-tematics. Also there it turned out that they were in arrears. Just looking at the good consensus between the four civil parties in the revised national budget, it is clear that the policy is respected and offensive. I think some of the problem is that if you just suggest things in the Storting because you want to get a play in the media, politics doesn't get credible, it doesn't come true, and it doesn't get offensive either. Then you're left with the beard in the mailbox and you're almost 1 billion missing. kr in your own option.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2431	The representative, Heggelund, has made a quite fresh and offensive style throughout this debate, and also yesterday. ‘Attack is the best defence’ is clearly the representative’s approach to this. For the sake of order, I can only stress that the Workers' Party is a strong supporter of both European and other international cooperation in general, including in the field of climate, and we have been involved in developing the thinking about the quota-free sector and cooperation there. There is no change, but we have said that with regard to the non-quota sector, it is important that we dare to set our own strong, clear national targets, and that it is good both for the climate and for the necessary conversion of our own industry, our own business. But my theme today is carbon capture and storage. We had a long round of this yesterday, so I'm not going to repeat the points from it, but stress that this is also important in the revised national budget context. Because it is unusually important to maintain the pace of technology development, but also to achieve new, good funding models, to promote good, concrete international cooperation, to build a market and to strengthen and maintain the project organisations that have been set up in this field. It is vital that we continue to have two full-scale storage projects with us. It is vital that we do not end up with new delays. We now know that there was a sharp cut in the appropriations in the 2018 budget itself, leading to both delays and increased costs. It is then used in RNB no less than 57 million. kr on what is called remobilisation and waiting costs, and it is not a particularly sensible use of money to have to remobilise or wait. It is a direct result of the delay that came then. We have therefore invested more money than what was proposed in the RNB. I want to say – also to the Council of State – that we recognise the clear motive and the clear desire that we share, to succeed, and we are going to support it, but our message is that we must use this opportunity to say that we cannot have further delays. We have no time to lose. Yesterday we got the impression that the government parties said this was important, but we have some time. We don't think we have time. We need good, efficient, proper and responsible projects, but we also need to ensure that they can be developed, and that is why we have chosen to prioritise important sums in our alternative revised budget for increased appropriations for the development of carbon capture and storage technologies and projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2440	Small differences between people have been among the best with Norway. It has created trust between people, a glue in society. But this is now threatened. Differences in power and wealth are increasing significantly. The 10 pst. The wealthiest of the population now owns over half of all wealth in the country. At the same time, the salary of most people has remained silent for the first time in many years. Obviously, the government is ideologically determined to contribute to the increasing differences. Of the 22 billion. They have cut taxes, so they go 160 times more to Norway's richest than to most people. This dark blue government organizes tax celebrations for the economic elite. One of the worst consequences of the growing inequality and the unsocial distribution policy of government is that there are increasing numbers of children growing up in poor families in this country, children who are not getting involved in the same way as the other kids, children who are grunting for the summer vacation because they become the only ones in the crowd who have no place to go to this summer. It is so greedyly unfair that children grow up with fewer opportunities than others in this country because their parents have poor finances, while society just gets richer and richer. The growing wealth does not go to the many, but to build even bigger fortunes for a few. It's a development we could do something about politics. We could distribute the wealth of society more fairly, but it doesn't want this government to do, and it becomes very clear in this revised budget. In fact, between the adoption of the state budget for 2018 and the presentation of the revised budget, we have rounded 100 000 children who grow up in poor families, 100 000 children who do not have the same opportunities as the others. I think this is a national distribution crisis, but what does the government choose to do with this crisis? Nothing! It is not a single immediate measure, not any new funds in this budget. On the contrary, they allow this important opportunity to go to play when the government proposes to spend 140 million. a reduction in the amount of child benefit in this budget, because there will be fewer beneficiaries of child benefit than assumed. That's 140 million. kr which the government has chosen to cover for various non-social cuts, instead of using them to start a historic escalation of child welfare, as proposed by SV. Child protection has remained silent since 1996. That makes it one-third less worth today. Now is the time for a sharp increase in child welfare and the economy of the family, because the most effective measure to combat child poverty is quite obvious to raise the economy of parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2451	This government's continuing down-priority of the Norwegian army and the Heimevert continues. In 2016, the Right-Fremskritsparte government was able to present a delayed and incomplete defence plan. The army and the Home Guard were pushed into new investigations. There were so many difficult choices, asserted the government parties. The land-use plan came last autumn — a year and a half in arrears — and it did not contain any new choices for the Army, but the same as had been proposed before. However, like the 2017 budget, the state budget for 2018 was also not based on an agreed army and home security plan. Instead, in the 2018 budget agreement, government parties went in to cut into both army and home security. That's why we in the Workers' Party were very sceptical about negotiating with the Land Power government. But it was put very well on the table: the proposal to cut off several hundred army soldiers in Troms was put aside and was to be investigated further. The war chariots were due to arrive in 2019. It was much better than what was originally proposed – it said ‘at least 2025’ – and the Army would have helicopters. And not least, the money was to be revised. Oh, my God! But nothing came. In the case of tanks, they return to their original proposal – «at least 2025». The government only proposes three helicopters to the Army on Bardufoss, although the rescue helicopters are delayed and the government has not clarified when the Coast Guard gets its helicopters. And the Army's standing second battalion shall no longer be standing, but based on a summons. Several hundred American soldiers are going to train in the inner Troms – a proposal we support – but when you combine this with the proposal to take down the second battalion, it's going to be unbalanced in my opinion. The parties that have negotiated a budgetary agreement admit themselves that the government does not have a majority for its agricultural plan. But the solution for army and home security will be postponement once again – yes, for the fourth time with this government. The Labour Party is betting on army and home security. That is why we are proposing today to purchase six Bell helicopters to meet the needs of the Special Forces and the Army in North Norway. We propose to modernise the Army's tanks, we say no to the government's powerful cut in the Army in the inner Troms, and we spend more money to strengthen the quality of both the army and home security. And we're adding fresh money, because we're actually willing to prioritize the land power. But with this government's policy, the GDP share goes down in defence, contrary to the NATO target of raising to 2 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2466	I have noticed that someone from the government parties has tried to doubt the legitimacy of the Labour Party's draft budget by removing the 350-kroner limit and the deposit we have set at 770 million. kr. When one adds that this will secure and strengthen — and not least provide a basis for — Norwegian jobs and provide increased VAT and tax revenues in the form of more people coming to work, it is likely that 770 million. kr may be a modest sum included in the budget. One thing that has made a lot of commitment this spring, is the so-called Color Line case. That the government will save a few tens of millions of dollars to put Norwegian seafarers ashore, and then use taxpayers' money to subsidise foreign workers on board, is completely incomprehensible. It is quite incomprehensible that the Progress Party, which has stood up as the seafarer's warmest defenders, at the latest at its national meeting, accepts such an approach from the government. It only clearly shows that the speck of being the seafarer's party has disappeared. Now, like the Right, they're the shipowners' party. In the revised national budget and the negotiations on this issue, the Christian People's Party has been given the impression that one should return to Stortinget with the basis for this matter. We're very happy about that. That means that we get a little rest cut, and that we have an opportunity to go up again the basis for this matter in Stortinget. We are also given the opportunity to see if there is any team in the Progress Party, that they want to contribute to safe conditions for Norwegian seafarers. We therefore support C II. So I noticed at the beginning of this debate that the representative Henrik Asheim – and to some extent followed up by other Right-Representatives – is talking about that now things are going a lot better in the Norwegian economy. Of course, the oil economy is growing again. That's the main reason why things are going much better now. It's good to remember that one of the main attacks from the right parties during Stoltenberg's time, in 2013, was that there was a two-way economy, and that we were too dependent on Norwegian oil economy. Then they won the election, and then we got into a situation where they started talking about conversion, and now when things go a little bit better again, it's kind of abandoned the need for conversion. But the challenge is not gone. It will be fun to see and record if this comes back again in connection with the 2019 government budget. For it is not often now that one hears about the need to convert the Norwegian economy, but the need is most present. It will be exciting to see how government parties will respond to this in the 2019 government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2477	The government describes the world with sunshine shining over gold and green forests, and everything goes well. Much is going well, but the government cannot take credit for neither the weather, the movements in the world market, nor the photosynthesis. It could have been a lot better if it was just another government. The Central Party's entry into the budget is about a living government, with predictable governance and fair distribution throughout the country. If you ask professionals in the municipalities, the counties, the defenses, the army, the police, the police high school, the colleges, schools, colleges, universities, colleges, colleges or kindergartens, they probably say that there's a lot of unforeseeable. I could frame a lot more examples. When skilled professionals who are critical of preparedness in our country quit their jobs, something is ripping off the way they are treated. The conflicts in the government and the negotiations on horse trafficking do not provide good governance. The fact that the Progress Party does not take into account the consequences of the transfer of State collection from socially distributed taxes to non-social taxes, says its own. Several Right-Representatives talk about climate change, while the Center Party sees the seriousness that affects several states, among others. Upland, in terms of flood and racial protection funds. The centre party has travelled to recruit qualified teachers as a fantasy. The government has introduced four requirements for admission to teacher training, extended education to five years, and separates thousands of teachers, while introducing a standard to increase the number of teachers in school. The government seems to work against the negotiated agreement with the Christian People's Party. At the same time, the Central Party did not get the majority of Stortinget to ask for a big message about teacher recruitment. The government doesn't guarantee the long-term worth of students and teachers in school. Another example is the standard of staffing in kindergartens — the least-advised, least-developed and least-funded norm with a risk of most adverse consequences dealt with by the Education and Research Committee since the elections. In the field of education, it is important for the Centre Party to bet. Knowledge drives society forward. Professionals and equipment-intensive subjects, such as establishing a sea food line at Vardø secondary school or bioenergy line at Dokka secondary school, we invested in our alternative budget. In the revision, we – unlike the government – will give priority to both new places of study and quality measures at the vocational schools. In addition, we give priority to new universities, universities and ICT security and IT with a focus on cryptology. Preparedness is also about knowledge and competence to take care of Norwegian interests and jobs, throughout the country, close to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2490	One of the biggest tasks is to ensure good health and quality of life for all living in Norway. Over the next generation there will be twice as many over 70 years. It means many more fresh years, but it also means several older people with multiple diseases and complex disorders. At the same time, we also know that the increase in the so-called non-infectious diseases is spreading like an epidemic. And the need for patients to receive good care in our hospitals is a growing need. Unfortunately, the government's proposals to the revised national budget show that there is very low activity growth in our hospitals. Taking into account demographic costs related to population growth and our ageing population, growth is actually negative, and the Workers' Party is concerned, because this is due to underfunding of our common hospitals. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget for 2018, we propose to strengthen hospitals by 1.4 billion. kr more than in the government proposal. We also propose in our draft revised budget to strengthen the hospitals' economy in the current year by 250 million. kr. I have to say something about the very foundations of our common healthcare system, namely the fixed medical system. It falters, and changes must be made for the future. The Government has set the deadline for the evaluation of the permanent medical scheme until 1 September 2019. It's two years after Storting's unanimous decision. The Health Minister has publicly admitted that he understood seriously too late. It is a good trait to admit errors and shortcomings, but it is also a condemned duty to sort them out. Today’s situation requires follow-up to the Storting decision, and the Workers’ Party believes that this should be carried out more quickly than the government proposes. Strengthening the work of recruiting several permanent practitioners is very important. That is why the Workers' Party also proposes to grant 20 million. kr to this in the current year. Our proposals have a completely different rate of investment in both hospitals – which are good, and which are the community's offer to the population – and the close service, through an enhanced system of fixed medical devices that is equipped for the future. We're not waiting for this anymore. We're now presenting it, and unfortunately we can't see the same ambition from the government parties. Finally, the patients pay for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2503	We want a society where everyone should have the same possibilities, regardless of who you are, or what family you are born into. Unfortunately, not all grow up with the same possibilities as most others. Sander is 16 years old. He's a dancer. He likes to bathe and go on tours. But Sander is also autist and has a mental retardation. He's living in a Bucollective with staff that looks after him 24 hours a day. He must run wherever he is going, and at the school he has three adults around him at any time. It's because Sander lacks impulse control and can be very effective. On the way to Loen to swim last year, Sander was impatient in the backseat. He struck the mother first and put her out of the game, and then he struck after the father, who was the driver. Then they lost control of the car, which ended up in wrong lanes with cars in the opposite direction. Fortunately, this went well – this time. But of course it has made them more careful and afraid to take Sander on a trip. Sander gets restless and wants to be on the check-out with the family, but the family fears what happens if they get in the car with Sander. Sander needs a custom car with locks between him and the driver's seat and with enough space for him to sit all alone without a human being close up to himself. Today, families in these kinds of situations unfortunately have to buy vans themselves, which they also have to pay to adapt. Not everyone can afford it, and to the seventh and last, it's the kids it's going down. We propose to change the regulations on motor vehicle or other means of transport to support Sander and others with developmental barriers or disruptions to large cars, Group 2, so that they can relatively get that debt, and also get the best possible quality of life. I am pleased that there is going to be multiple numbers for something in the right direction in this matter, but we could send a clear order to the government and rectify it more quickly with our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2518	I would draw attention to a loose proposal, No. 68, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, and just make a few comments to it since there is no comment on the place of notice – this time. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive review of the rules on bankruptcy in order to ensure that the rules on bankruptcy quarantine are effective, that the level of penalties is adapted to the seriousness of the offences and that transparency is ensured both for the consumer and for the authorities.’ Let me stress, as much as last time, that Norwegian working life is essentially safe, productive and well organized. So the right-hand speakers don't go up here in turn and order, as they've gotten used to, and argue against the Workers' Party's many proposals for a clean-up action in the world of work. Because it is not possible to get past the fact that the labour market is now increasingly being challenged by unprofessional actors. It undermines both the safety and productivity that has been the Norwegian trade mark for decades and the main competitive advantage. Userity and crime take different forms, both as social dumping and as gross crime at work. Unfortunately, we see too many examples of bandits exploiting gaps in the legislation differently. The Labour Party therefore believes that there is a need for a clean-up action in the labour market, and one of the areas we point to is bankruptcy law. For a long time, the daily newspaper has revealed one of the major gaps in the law and regulation, where unprofessional bankruptcy riders are free to pin themselves at the expense of others, even if they are subject to bankruptcy quarantine. Lack of laws, regulations and transparency means that we have a law in several ways that seems to protect people who are in bankruptcy rather than giving the public the necessary transparency, both to take care of the serious work and business life and to take care of the safety of consumers. We have to make sure that the different laws and rules on bankruptcy and quarantine contribute to serious and proper business conditions – the sooner, the better. The Labour Party believes that, but not just us – it actually has a unanimous big deal. Half a year ago, when the state budget for 2018 was being examined, the size decided unanimously on the same subject, even then on a proposal from the Workers' Party. In the newspaper today we see how the government has followed up the Storting decision. What they've done is – nothing. This is unacceptable. At best, there is evidence of a government that is out of action, but it is difficult to call it a training of the Stortinge's unanimous decision – therefore this proposal by the Workers' Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2536	The Centre Party prioritises national preparedness in its alternative revised national budget, services close to people throughout the country, Norwegian interests and Norwegian jobs. Social taxes that affect most people and Norwegian businesses are an act of this government. The centre party is taking action to shift resource use from bureaucracy in Oslo to services throughout the country and therefore proposes a number of measures to ensure Norwegian workers’ orderly and good working conditions. In our alternative revised national budget, we are going against the government’s centralisation reforms, cutting red tape in Oslo and increasing the allocation of services across the country. The Government and the Christian People's Party have adopted a pediatric norm which states that there will be a maximum of three children per adult in Norwegian kindergartens from 1 August this year. The norm involves large additional costs for municipalities, and the costs are not fully compensated by the state. Neither will they agree with the Christian People's Party. Underfunding means that municipalities may be forced to cut off other important services in order to meet the norm. No one has wanted to respond to any services to be cut in, so the centre party will grant 200 million. kr to cover the underfinancing. In the revised national budget, the Centerpartiet rate is 500 million. kr on traffic, which is a large sum in RNB context. The reason for this effort is that we feel that enough is enough in view of the maintenance run on the county roads. The county roads are the workhorses in District Norway and need better care than today. We note that, among other things: in Nordland. With this transport budget, the Central Party is clearly the most offensive party of all. It's necessary. The short-haul network is the response of North Norway to the Eastern Railway. It binds us together, means that people get to meetings, and that necessary health trips can be carried out. The centre batch wants to strengthen this offer, both by exempting aeroplanes below 20 tonnes from air passenger charges and by providing an additional 10 million. kr to the concession routes. As individuals and as a nation, we are sometimes faced with challenges that are greater than those we encounter in everyday life. Preparedness represents our ability to deal with such situations – small or large crises and in the utmost consequence war. Defence is the nation's sharpest response resource. The centre party has for several years proposed a significant reinforcement of the defence, and we are burdened and broken with the obligation to use at least 2 pst. by 2024. The recent report by the National Audit Office on object protection states that the Home Protection Agency is unable to solve its mission. The government's surrendering to cancel home guards is not fair when the situation is the same as it is. It is the security of ordinary Norwegian citizens who are at stake. That the government is depriving this work is not acceptable. The centre party points to the same thing this year as last year. We have therefore today tabled a proposal to stop all redundancies of Homeland soldiers until the Storting has carried out a review of the report.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2561	Towards, inter alia: The votes of the Labour Party will today be decided to lay down the Police College Department at the Park of Kongsvinger. It's a sad day for my region, for my municipality. It's a sad day for everyone who's worked for and arranged to further develop higher education. It is a sad day for all the young people who have applied for a place of study there — great young people, who are ready to enter the police service, and who were happy to start the studies from the fall on, but of which there is now nothing. And it's a sad day for the 15 employees who are now losing their jobs. It is unheard of that the government almost reduces the number of bachelor students in the police annually by more than 200 students in a bill of trust in the revised national budget. That means over 200 fewer policemen each year in the future. Such an important and comprehensive case had deserved much more thorough treatment, and, moreover, as employers, it is irresponsible to change the framework for students and the employment conditions of employees at such short notice. Nationally, it's about so much more. This is about the capacity of the Norwegian police in the years to come. We have long had a target of two jobs per thousand inhabitants, and that goal has not been achieved across the country. In the interior, the number is 1.47 and in the Kongswinger region it's 1.30. In addition, a lot has happened that complicates the crime scene in recent years, and it is worrying to talk to police officers who report that they still need to lower and/or drop police duties with public significance. I can also refer to the last day's media release that unresolved issues are pending. It is completely meaningless that Setter will no longer be part of future Norwegian police training. There it has built up a good professional environment over many years. There are the tailor-made facilities and facilities for which there is no husband in Norway. And not least, studies show that employees and students are very satisfied and that the site is popular. Kongsvinger municipality has shown ambition and flexibility over many years. They have contributed to good teaching conditions, provided good development opportunities and have been a great partner for the police. In the election campaign last year, the then Minister of Justice of the Progressive Party stressed that there were no plans to reduce the educational capacity of the police, and it was said that the police should be strengthened. But it was just empty words. In Hedmark, we received guarantees from the Left and Christian People's Party, and especially loud were the candidates of the Right and the Advance Party: the police high school at Setter was to be maintained. But I'll tip that they're going to vote today for it to be laid down. On 1 June, the Glåmdalen wrote in the chairroom that ‘[m]ann’s memory is short’, but that at the next election there is ‘reason for remembering that the Right and FrP were overly cut at the police college at Setter’. They dropped the police training.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2576	Now I would like to draw attention to the Workers' Party's loose proposal No. 70. In the proposal, we simply ask that the government ensure that the Grand Duchy's request decision No. 324 for 2017-2018. These are foster parents who are cut off because they receive foster home allowances. On 11 May 2017, the Stortinget unanimously decided to ask the government to introduce a transitional scheme for foster parents on social security benefits as soon as possible, in order to ensure that they would not lose their financial impact on being foster parents. A unanimous increase further said that the transitional regime would apply until a new legislation on foster homes was in place. But the government is just running out of time. A permanent scheme is not yet in place. It was more than half a year before the transitional regime came, even though the Stortinge said ‘fastest’, and when it finally came, it only applied to foster parents with redundancy payments or daily allowances. Those with other benefits were simply left out – and they are still. In this case, all the parties on Stortinget have been impatient. All parties have shown how important it is to ensure that people with social security benefits too can be foster parents. All parties have stressed the importance of maintaining good foster homes and ensuring the stability and predictability of the lives of children and young people who have already had it quite difficult in their young lives. Being a foster parent is not just a job you're giving up if you, for example. would get sick. Since the government had spent such a long time making only a limited transitional arrangement, the Storting adopted in the request decision No. 324 unanimously to give retroactive effect to the transitional regime from 11 May 2017, when Stortinget took its first unanimous decision in the case. Then we now experience in the revised national budget that the government once again says that it is unable to implement the decision of the Storting because they are unable to find those who have money for good! It's not to believe! It's just bureaucratic carnival! It is disrespectful of the decision of the Storting, but worse still: it is disrespectful of the foster parents who have been waiting for the money Stortinget has promised them. Has the government tried to find these people at all? I don't think so. The foster home association has not been contacted. I talked to them yesterday. They're more than happy to contribute. But the Labour Party's loose proposal No. 70 is even simpler. We suggest that Nav send a short message to those who have received a reduction in redundancy payments or daily allowances during the relevant period, and ask those who have had foster home allowances at the same time to make contact. It's not worse. I assume that we will have a majority for this proposal today. The proposal for Decision XXX to abandon the decision of the Storting on the retroactive effect of the decision may be no more than an accident at work in the Committee on which there is still time to remedy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2590	In most areas of society, the number of accidents and deaths is falling, but unfortunately this is not the case in the case of fatal accidents associated with the use of recreational craft. In fact, this figure has remained stable at around 33 deaths per year over the last ten years, while in the road sector, we have seen a gradual decrease. The Labour Party believes that we should learn from the road sector, which has a zero vision. They have established broad cooperation with all relevant actors, who have joined forces on actions, and they have produced clear results. The number of deaths and serious road accidents has gradually declined. We have a fantastic coast, which provides plenty of recreation with the use of a recreational boat. This year we have had a summer in South Norway that has invited to great sea activity. The number of pleasure boats is increasing. It's very positive, but we have to make sure that it's as safe as possible to travel at sea for everyone. The Workers' Party is today promoting a proposal asking the Government to introduce a target that the use of recreational craft should not lead to the loss of life or lasting damage, and is asking for concrete measures to achieve such an objective in the maritime safety announcement notified to the autumn. We are impatient, for in the past the Stoltenberg government promoted a proposal setting up a working group that proposed measures, and the report was handed over in 2012. The hearing bodies highlighted the specific focus on awareness-raising, the imposition of restrictions on the use of fleet equipment in open boats and kayaks, the tightening of the pro-mille limit for recreational boating, requirements on the competence of masters, the strengthening of the control apparatus, the investigation of accidents, measures aimed at fishing tourists and the issue of national speed limits. All of this is relevant to discuss today. With the exception of the requirement for a life jacket in a recreational boat, which was treated by Stortinget and statutory in 2015, little has been followed up. The working party therefore expects the government to take maritime safety seriously in the use of recreational craft and to use the experience, not least from the road sector, where broad cooperation between public authorities, private operators and the voluntary sector has reduced the number of fatalities. So far this year, 37 people have died as a result of drowning — not all in connection with a recreational boat. Last year it was 29 in the same period. For the first time more people die as a result of drowning than in road traffic. Each death is one too many.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2603	First I want to give 100 pst. support for the submission by Tone Sønsterud on the deposit of seats and for Lise Christoffersen on foster parents. This government has in its time spent 220 billion. kr more than any government before them. So anyway, many of the benefits of those who have the most difficulty in society have been solved. I heard the Minister of Finance here instead, in the change of line, denied it. But the list is long. The worst thing is that it hits kids, and there are more and more of them. Every year, crocodile tears are crying from this pulpit and many other pulpits about how bad this is: you think this is bad, and you have to do something about it. But what has the government done? Well, they've cut off benefits for the families where mom or dad are sick or not, for example. They have kept child-responsiveness still, so that it has not lifted up any of the families that could have been lifted out of poverty with it. They have greatly reduced the level of housing support during their reign. Now we're just as low on housing as we did in 2009. While housing expenditure has increased violently and income for those in the lowest income groups has decreased, this has occurred. And the government sits still. We see it again in municipal social assistance, but we see it first and foremost again in people who have become poor. The government even has the cut in very ill's right to physical therapy. Five years in a row, you've made sure that those who have a pension get a drop in their pensions. So there's no limit to what you've been able to do when you've had so much money at your disposal. If you want to do something to lift the poorest kids, you can start with the three b's: the child's pension, the child's allowance in the disability allowance and the housing allowance. All of this is very good for the most difficult families, and these families have high housing costs. Now there might come some from the government parties up now and say yes, but each one has got a little bit more. But it doesn't help that they get a little bit more in dollars when the heads they have in housing costs have increased even more. The gap between housing support and housing expenditure has also increased for the poor children’s families. The government knows that. It's a wild policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2620	The revised national budget should be used to meet particularly important needs that are not adequately addressed in the State budget. This option chooses the government not to use. I will take three important examples from the field of education. For many years, the Labour Party has been working for a standard of service in kindergartens that ensures adequate staff with the right skills. It is the most important thing for the children to have a good offer. When the government finally makes a proposal for a norm, it is so poorly explored and prepared and so unclear on important issues such as: open-ended, part-time and temporary work, the contradiction between key actors in the sector. The government does not add a penny to the table to pay for the norm, but pushes the bill over to others. KS, several municipalities and the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager strongly protest against the underfinancing. The Education Association and the Trade Union point to clear weaknesses with the norm. The working party will have a transitional arrangement with additional funds from the autumn of 2018 rather than leaving the bill to the municipalities and kindergartens. But the government shows no willingness in this way to ensure that this norm becomes a real quality promise. So to my second example, research, which is important for both well-being and prosperity in the future. The government made a real downturn in the government budget appropriations. And even though the state report on higher education reveals that the funding for ICT research is falling, despite the fact that the Storting has decided that it should go up, i.e. a escalation, the government leaves it. This is dangerously passive in a field that will continue the conversion of Norway. So to higher education. We saw a record search in April, especially in ICT, and the 5 million to study places that finally came into the agreement are far from enough. We've added 14.8 million. kr more. The government is failing here all those who want to study. There are several industries that call for more competence. The government does not take the opportunity in it. High numbers of applicants are good, a potential for training the workforce we need in the years to come, in ICT and technology, teachers, nurses, etc. In this way, the government undermines the good, knowledge-based development of society. It is not far-sighted to provide quality other than on paper and not to create new places of study.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2631	In the spring, it became known that the Directorate of Railways, after Bane NOR's recording, is in favour of a postponement of intercity development in the East. SV had at the very longest hope that the revised would contain some grip to get this incredibly important railway operation on rails again. But no – nothing. Postponement for two years, largely across the line – registered and accepted. Is that possible? When Stortinget had NTP for treatment just a year ago, there was no sign that the building start and completion years should not last. So eight months later we get the answer: several years of postponement. In the budget debate before Christmas there was also no warning or indication that the InterCity bet would be postponed. But just two months later, the bomb came: everything, most distances, is delayed for two years. The government had in the proposal revised an opportunity to take some action. They could have proposed a re-priority between items in the transport budget if they wanted to. There could have been both funding, planning capacity and entrepreneurship capacity from not started large motorway projects to the railways. It would have been possible. But no, nothing to see in the budget. The motorways are protected in all ways. They do not seem to have a lack of money in the first planning period, nor a lack of planning capacity or entrepreneurship capacity, nor a poor basic condition that the project will be postponed for years. All these factors are identified as important reasons for the suspension of InterCity and Ringeriksbanen. The road's coming! Had they seriously thought of the celebrations that the railway should be strengthened, that it is environmentally friendly and a means of transport people prefer if frequent and fast trains go, they would have taken hold now. But they don't. What if there's money for that? Yes, indeed, in a lot – also within this sector. On a couple of occasions, I've probably annoyed myself with many of the blues by just mentioning the performance project "free E39" to a total of 340 billion. kr in the NTP period. We could take money from there. I also know that this airlock, which may remain an airlock, has already spent a lot of planning resources on something that might not be of any kind because of new technologies on electric ferries, etc. And I'm going to think that when those numbers come out and are presented, we can risk that the blues have painted up in a corner and we get a new kind of moon landing in transport that will put both the old Mongstad and the big building in the shadow.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2642	On Tuesday morning I read with great joy in the VG that the Right goes to fight against all unnecessary plastics here on the Stortinget. ‘Knall’, I thought, perhaps we can get right on a real effort against the plastic waste from Norway. Therefore, I contacted them via Twitter, congratulated the proposal and asked if the Right would like to support a proposal to phase out the use of unnecessary disposable plastics in all state activities. ‘Symbol policy’ was the answer from the Right-Representative – Symbol policy. Removing the unnecessary plastic from the canteens to the government, the directorates and all other state activities was symbolism. But pulling the plastic out of the Storting would make way for the well. The symbolic answer was maybe written in a moment of self-reflection, because it's something that has shaped the government's environmental policy, it's symbols and words. And we've heard words today, too. Representatives Abid Q. Raja and Stefan Heggelund can tell us that there has never been a better environmental policy than today. Well, I have to remind the representatives of the slogan 'actions speak louder than words'. While the greenhouse gas emissions went down below the red-green ones, they were more or less at rest under the blue-blue ones – except for the last year, then they went down a little bit. But what was the reason for that decline? Well, it was because we filled our fuel tanks with palm oil and rain forest destruction. What's happened in the last year? Well, palm oil has exploded. And then the representative Raja says that there's never been a better environmental policy than now. The trick is obviously to raise the voice when the arguments and the facts are missing. But let me come back to the plastic bin. That's what the environmental problem of the Nordics most fears. I'm glad that the President of the Stortinge was quick to make sure that the Stortinge will sweep at his own door. That's how the #min president speaks. But we who are big politicians, and especially we who sit on the Energy and Environment Committee, must have a little more ambition than just sweeping at your own door. We also have to do something with the plastic outside our own door. That is why SV is today promoting a number of proposals to combat plastic waste and we are promoting proposals that are clearing up the rainforest-causing environmental policy for the government. Had the representatives from the position meant something in their words, they would have voted in favour of those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2653	Then the speaking time is out – even when the representative praises the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2658	In the decades to come, the proportion of older people in the population will increase sharply. Therefore, commitment and long-term work must be undertaken to enable older people to have a worthwhile old age. Good care for the elderly is about freedom of choice for older people, day-time activity and, of course, enough older people. If that is the political will, we can implement it with commitment and long-term planning. Sv looked forward to what the government said would be a reform. We were enthusiastic, but I must say we were disappointed. There are many good ideas in the «Life All Life» document, but there are no new rights for the elderly and no reorganization for freedom of choice and activity. On page 175 of the reform, on economic and administrative implications, not all the new money to come is listed, although municipalities face tough priorities between many different actions. However, when the prime minister has high expectations for the municipalities, these must be followed up with demands and measures. But demands and obligatory measures will only make sense if local authorities get more space for action, which they would get with SV's alternative budget. Requirements, measures and money – this is how a reform is implemented. The document ‘Live your whole life’ is a wishful dream rather than a reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2673	The head of the Foreign and Defence Committee, Anniken Huitfeldt, made an intense speech here from the pulpit. The problem is the lack of coherence between the criticism that is being made and what the Workers' Party is actually doing in the areas they choose to criticise. If the Workers' Party is concerned that this is to be carried out by means of tanks, they should at least set aside a few kroner for it. If you study their plans for a revised national budget, you can see that it is not set by a red ear to new tanks – zero kroner. Then the representative Huitfeldt says that the Army, the Land Power and the HV are subject to a permanent down-priority. That's wrong. This government took over an army on the rim. The equipment the Army had, and has, was largely run down after many years in foreign operations. In 2017, a large maintenance exercise was carried out in the Army, which established 5,500 material objects. The very core wall of the Army is now being refurbished, in combination with heavy investment in new material. Let me do some examples. 14 days ago, the Storting treated an investment proposition. 4 B.C.E. SEK was then allocated to investments primarily in the Army, linked to engineering equipment, rescue tanks, new trucks, etc. Prior to that, new artillery, new air protection – which the Army has not had since 2004 – and equipment against electronic attacks and electronic warfare have been invested in it. It's set by 55 billion. kr in the long-term plan for the Army. The defense that this government took over was in a situation where the main fighting systems of all defenses had reached the end of their lifetime and had been run down. It is an almost inconvenient task to repatriate the defense as soon as it is really needed. It takes ten years to build defense, it takes a year to tear it down. And when you look at the Army, you can't just look at the Army in isolation. The army needs to develop within a joint operating framework, so that an army is in total the best possible way for the defence we have to function. Finally, I can't push myself to also mention HV. If you go into the documents in the revised national budget, you see the nice fact that HV actually increases by 2,000 new soldiers. The HV power is now up in 40,000 men, and to the big difference between the HV that we took over, we now have a HV that exercises more, and that has modern equipment and modern weapons, actually the same hand weapons as the Army.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2688	There's a lot of things you could talk about here. One of the measures taken by the government in the field of care for the elderly is the State experiment. That's what I've been looking at, because that's where the government now grants 140 million. kr more, on the grounds that the municipalities have increased their activity, they have a greater need. There is a greater need in many municipalities, and that's why SV increases its budgets, it's a choice of values. So we're sitting in front of the richest. While other municipalities will not get more money to meet the needs of the elderly caregivers, these few, selected municipalities will get more money because they can show that the need is greater. It says a little bit about the priorities that are being done. In addition, there is a system of state top funding for municipalities with particularly resource-intensive services. That's where the government's been cutting 700 million in the last four years. kr. This must now cost the municipalities seas. This is about very ill patients, and they are growing more and more because the government is now pushing on for municipalities to accept ready-to- print patients in psychiatry. The municipalities do not have the capacity, money and staff to do this. They have to get more, because this doesn't go off. What the municipality says is that this goes beyond the care of the elderly, otherwise, because it simply cannot be done without the competence to do so. In this area, in many cases, there is a need to develop competences in line with hospitals. That competence is expensive, and the municipalities have to buy it. So there's no prioritization of the elderly in the municipalities. Another area where there is reason to look — now the Minister of Justice is sitting here — is the inertia of the family reunification cases in the UDI and UNE. Today, the Civil Ombudsman has told us that there is an error in the administration, a violation of the law. I assume that the Minister of Justice now ensures that his administration does not break the law, but deals with these matters according to the letter of the law and the law. There is also a need to prioritise family reunification much higher. It will increase and improve integration, because people sit and worry about spouses and kids. They struggle with it, and they get sick of it. It doesn't improve integration at all. In addition, Norway has now – for which time I do not know – been packaged by the United Nations Children’s Committee in order to ensure that we do not have sufficient standards and care for minor asylum seekers over the age of 15 years, in line with how we care for our own children in the same age group if they are without parents or guardians. The government should get that sorted out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2699	I would like to make a few comments about the Stortingen construction project, the Prince's Gate 26, including a new postal and goods station and a new entrance tunnel. The majority of the Committee on Budgets has proposed an additional allocation of 379,7 million. kr for 2018 for the construction project, and a new total cost framework of SEK 2,321 billion. kr. The new cost framework is in line with what was proposed by the Presidency of the revised national budget. The Presidency's proposals have, as you know, been supported by new calculations from the project and the administration. A thorough external quality assurance has then been carried out by Dovre Group Consulting. Much has been said and can be said about the background of the latest increase in the cost framework. What now has the presidency's attention is to complete the project within the cost framework. Several actions have been implemented in recent months to strengthen the governance of the construction project. There is a clear governance structure under the new Director. Furthermore, a new head of the External Project Council has been collected. In addition, the Construction Director of State Building is now also a member of the Project Council. The project is subject to an extended reporting requirement for both propulsion and economics. New reporting requirements also involve the preparation of a periodic production budget with the corresponding cash flow updated monthly. This provides better financial management in the project and better budget management. Progress in the project is good, and there is every reason to believe that the project will now be completed within the cost framework, although history has taught us that no guarantees can be given in projects of this magnitude and complexity. According to the plan, both the Prince's Gate 26 and the new reception of mail and goods shall be completed by the end of the year. Only measures related to the putting into service and completion of this part of the project will remain. The entrance tunnel is also planned to be completed by the end of the year. The first part of 2019 completes the work on the conversion of the wiring harness in the Rathusgat. In 2019, wessels site will also be refurbished as part of a separate hedging project. At the earliest in 2019, the new building and the tunnel could be put into service. In addition to being a modern and functional building, it is important to stress that the project significantly increases the basic safety of Storting. This applies to all three main elements of the project – the new Prince’s Gate 26, the new postal and goods reception and the new entry tunnel and the refurbishment of Wessel’s site. The main priority of the Presidency is now to complete the project. A comprehensive evaluation of the project after completion will be carried out, as requested by the Stortinget. However, the work on implementing improvements is in progress. In this context, I would like to mention yesterday's report by the working group on how future construction projects in the Stortinget should be organised.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2713	I just want to make a brief explanation of vote on the SV's side, because we know that incursion has not helped to promote proposal No. 50, dealing with a split solution for helicopters, helicopters dedicated to the Army in the north and helicopters dedicated to the special forces. It's a proposal that we put ourselves behind and we're going to vote for. Furthermore, I would like to stress that we will also be voting in favour of the proposal for a Request Decision IX, on ‘strengthening consumers’ rights in trade in housing’ and on the follow-up to a number of different decision-making decisions that have been taken in the past. With that, I would like to thank you for the debate and wish everyone a good summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e2722	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Case No. 2–30 is the second time legal proceedings are conducted. The President will propose that matters be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e3050	Does anyone ask for the word? – No one has asked for the floor for case No. 2-30.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e3074	A total of 76 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 2-6, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 7-14, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 15-18, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 19, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and Red proposal No 20, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 21-24, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 25, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 26, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 27 and 28, by Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 29–31, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 32–40, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Greens and Reds the proposals No 41 and 42, from Trygve Battle Force Vedum on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 43 and 44, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party and Red proposal No 45, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 46 to 51, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 52-55, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Green and Red Party the proposals No 56 to 60, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 61–65, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 66, from the Bears of the Moxnes on behalf of the Red the proposals No 67 and 68, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 69, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 70, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 71 to 73, from Bjørna Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 74, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 75, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 76, from Henrik Asheim on behalf of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 66, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2018 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 21 Government Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 173 061 000 to NOK 181 061 000 41 Size Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 961,300000 to NOK 965,300000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, granted by: [[NY]] 2000000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 376 700 000 from NOK 593 400000 to NOK 970 100000 70 Grants to the batches shall be increased by: 6000000 from NOK 186000000 to NOK 192000000 61 Supreme Court Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 109 750000 to NOK 111 150000 100 Ministry of Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 8 600 000 from NOK 2 253 292,000 to NOK 2 244 692,000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 12 931000 to NOK 17 931000 116 Participation in international organisations 70 Grants to international organisations shall be reduced by: 150000000 from NOK 1499 500000 to NOK 1349 500000 118 North-area actions, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under items 70 and 71, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 38 204 000 to NOK 43 204 000 150 Aid to Africa 78 Regional allocation for Africa may be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 2728 640000 to NOK 2713 640000 151 Aid to Asia 72 Assistance to Afghanistan may be transferred, increased by: 6000000 from NOK 565000000 to NOK 571000000 162 Transitional aid/vulnerable countries and regions 70 Transitional aid/vulnerable countries and regions may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 343000000 to NOK 353000000 163 Emergency aid, humanitarian aid and human rights 70 Emergency aid and humanitarian aid may be transferred, increased by: 116 202,000 from NOK 4 511000000 to NOK 4 627 202 000 72 Human rights, can be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 360000000 to NOK 370000 000 165 Research, empowerment and evaluation 71 Professional cooperation, may be transferred, increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 428 658 000 to NOK 441 658 000 166 Climate, environment and renewable energy 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 65 000 000 72 Climate and environment, can be transmitted, increased by: 133,000,000 from NOK 917 200000 to NOK 1050 200000 167 Refugee measures in Norway, approved as development aid [[ODA]] Special operating costs are reduced by: 397 802,000 from NOK 1425 477 000 to NOK 1027 675000 168 Women's rights and equality 70 Women's rights and equality may be transferred, increased by: 7 600 000 from NOK 346 700000 to NOK 354 300000 169 Global health and education 70 Global health, can be transmitted, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 3,218,916,000 to NOK 3,233,916,000 170 United Nations organisations, etc. 76 United Nations and global challenges, can be transmitted, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 212 300000 to NOK 222 300000 81 Food security and agricultural climate change, can be transmitted, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 275000000 to NOK 285000000 83 World Health Organisation [[WHO]] 20,000,000 from NOK 183 500000 to NOK 203 500000 171 Multilateral financial institutions 71 Regional banks and funds may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 840000 to NOK 837000000 225 Basic training measures 64 Aid for the training of children and young people seeking residence in Norway is reduced by: 210 000 from NOK 111 351000 to NOK 111 141 000 65 Interest compensation for school and swimming facilities may be transferred, increased by: 98 245000 from NOK 199 608 000 to NOK 297 853 000 68 Subsidies for training in criminal services are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 287 542 000 to NOK 292 542 000 226 Quality development of initial training 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 26 245000 from NOK 1040 466 000 to NOK 1066 711000 63 Early school effort through increased teacher effort of 1–10. Steps shall be reduced by: 11 535000 from NOK 1529 048 000 to NOK 1517 513 000 240 Vocational education 60 Grants to post-secondary schools are increased by: 7 130 000 from NOK 651 079 000 to NOK 658 209 000 241 Joint actions for the vocational education sector 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 7 130 000 from NOK 20 248 000 to NOK 13 118 000 255 Contribution to Peace and Human Rights Centres 70 Centres for the Study of Holocaust and Life Vision Minorities are increased by 822,000 from NOK 33 858 000 to NOK 34 680000 75 The European Wergeland Centre shall be increased by: 500000 from NOK 9 218 000 to NOK 9 718 000 257 Competence plus 70 Grants may be transferred, reduced by: 822,000 from NOK 157 167 000 to NOK 156 345000 258 Measures for lifelong learning 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 1, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 123 391 000 to NOK 133 391 000 260 Universities and higher education institutions 50 State universities and higher education institutions are increased by: 720000 from NOK 34 355 141 000 to NOK 34 362 361 000 270 International mobility and social purposes for students 74 Subsidies for welfare work are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 87 044 000 to NOK 88 044 000 280 Common Units 51 Operation of national joint tasks shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 85 091000 to NOK 95 091000 71 Grants to UNIS shall be increased by: 6000000 from NOK 132 349 000 to NOK 138 349 000 281 Joint actions for universities and higher education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under heading 70, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 351,664 000 to NOK 366,664 000 73 Grants to international programmes shall be increased by: 120000 from NOK 64 475000 to NOK 65 675000 285 Norwegian Research Council 55 Business costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 801,868,000 to NOK 803,868,000 287 Research institutes and other activities 53 NUPI, increased by 535000 from NOK 4904000 to NOK 5439000 288 International cooperation actions 72 International basic research organisations are reduced by: 27 802,000 from NOK 338 558 000 to NOK 310 756 000 73 The EU Framework Programme for Research may be transferred, increased by: 8,778 000 from NOK 2 199 232 000 to NOK 2 208 010 000 75 UNESCO quota shall be reduced by: 1 127 000 from NOK 24 341000 to NOK 23 214000 290 Directorate for Integration and Diversity Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 670000 from NOK 241 314 000 to NOK 248 064 000 291 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants 21 Special operating costs, knowledge development, may be transferred, increased by: 1500000 from NOK 44 572 000 to NOK 46 072 000 60 Integration grants, may be transferred, increased by: 144 154,000 from NOK 11 254 978 000 to NOK 11 399 132 000 61 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 456 473,000 from NOK 3329 422 000 to NOK 2 872 949 000 71 Grants to migrant organisations and other voluntary activities are increased by: 1,542 000 from NOK 107 860000 to NOK 109 402000 292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants 60 Grants for training in Norwegian and social skills for adult immigrants are increased by: 15 297 000 from NOK 1 997 096 000 to NOK 2 012 393 000 315 Voluntary objectives 72 Grants for voluntary activities for children and young people are reduced by: 2,580 000 from NOK 6000000 to NOK 3420000 78 Various fixed measures are increased by: 4500000 from NOK 8 350 000 to NOK 12 850000 79 At its disposal, shall be reduced by: 1 920,000 from NOK 14 500000 to NOK 12580000 82 VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities is increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 185000000 to NOK 285000000 87 Grants to X Games, awarded by [[NY]] 3,000,000 322 Building and public spaces 50 Arts in public spaces are reduced by: 20 500000 from NOK 25 440000 to NOK 4 940000 323 Music and performing arts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1 320 000 from NOK 93 477 000 to NOK 92 157 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 59 458 000 to NOK 62 458 000 325 General cultural purposes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3880 000 from NOK 95 887 000 to NOK 92 007 000 21 Research, investigation and special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 16 173 000 to NOK 19 173 000 75 EU Culture and Audiovisual Programme, etc. , may be transmitted, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 47 550000 to NOK 45 550000 78 Various firm measures are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 50 440000 to NOK 45 440000 334 Film and media applications Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 946,000 from NOK 166 653 000 to NOK 168 599 000 50 The Film Fund shall be increased by: 21,000,000 from NOK 489 300000 to NOK 510 300000 335 Media support 71 Production grants shall be reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 320000000 to NOK 313000000 72 Innovation and development, granted by: [[NY]] 7000000 339 Gambling, lotteries and foundations Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 700000 from NOK 79 724 000 to NOK 79 024 000 340 The Norwegian Church 70 Framework grants to the Norwegian Church shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 2041 100000 to NOK 2042 100000 342 Cemeteries and cemeteries 60 Interest compensation – church buildings, may be transferred, increased by: 16,000,000 from NOK 33 341000 to NOK 49 341000 400 Ministry of Justice and Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 464 234 000 to NOK 465 234 000 23 Special operational expenditure, research, evaluation and knowledge acquisition may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 24 692,000 to NOK 29 692,000 71 Grants to international organisations are increased by: 37 000 from NOK 14 020000 to NOK 14 057000 410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 26 400000 from NOK 2451 320 000 to NOK 2477 720 000 430 Crime prevention services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 60 367,000 from NOK 4 670 787 000 to NOK 4 610 420 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 27 400000 from NOK 23 619 000 to NOK 51 019 000 432 College and educational centre of criminal services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23 067 000 from NOK 242 958000 to NOK 266 025 000 440 Directorate of Police — Police and Len’s Seat Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 46,000,000 from NOK 17 101 318 000 to NOK 17 147 318 000 73 Grants to the EU Border and Visa Fund are increased by: 770000 from NOK 184000000 to NOK 191 700000 442 Police College Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 190 000 from NOK 627 039 000 to NOK 625 139 000 444 Police security service [[PST]] Operating costs are increased by: 4 100000 from NOK 861,215000 to NOK 865,315000 445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 252 753 000 to NOK 254 753 000 451 Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 456, entry 1 is increased by 2,900,000 from NOK 757 881000 to NOK 760 781 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 7 234 000 to NOK 12 234 000 454 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 12 800000 from NOK 687 887 000 to NOK 675 087 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 241,706,000 from NOK 2 513 208 000 to NOK 2 271 502 000 455 Rescue services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 103,978 000 to NOK 106,978 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 8 717 000 to NOK 5 717 000 71 Grants to non-governmental organisations in the rescue services are increased by: 12 100000 from NOK 47 652,000 to NOK 59 752,000 72 Emergency and security services grants shall be reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 109 536 000 to NOK 107 036 000 456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 451, entry 1 is increased by: 47 350 000 from NOK 121 102000 to NOK 168 452 000 21 Special operational expenditure — infrastructure Emergency networks, reduced by: 18 900 000 from NOK 357,001 000 to NOK 338 101 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 34 352 000 to NOK 44 352 000 467 Norwegian Lovtidend Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,476,000 from NOK 4 276 000 to NOK 5 752 000 471 State liability and compensation scheme of the Storting 72 Compensation in the event of criminal prosecution, the allocation of an estimate, shall be increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 59 702,000 to NOK 89 702,000 73 The capital allowance scheme shall be reduced by: 640000 from NOK 31 388 000 to NOK 24 988 000 474 Conflict Board Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 800000 from NOK 118 433 000 to NOK 117 633 000 475 Out-of-court settlement services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 90 223 000 to NOK 103 223 000 480 Svalbard budget 50 Grants shall be increased by: 53,000,000 from NOK 238 370000 to NOK 291,370000 490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 9000000 from NOK 992 010 000 to NOK 983 010 000 21 Special operating costs, asylum receipts, are reduced by: 224 455000 from NOK 1019 623 000 to NOK 795 168 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Special operating costs, interpretation and translation, are reduced by: 10,423,000 from NOK 31 876 000 to NOK 21 453 000 30 Conversions, arrival centres for asylum registration and reception may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 97 900 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 3,600,000 from NOK 117 170000 to NOK 120 770000 60 Grants to host municipalities for asylum recipients shall be reduced by: 22,159,000 from NOK 208 053 000 to NOK 185 894000 70 Social benefits for residents in reception of asylum are reduced by: 30,753,000 from NOK 147 739 000 to NOK 116 986 000 72 Return of asylum seekers with rejection and return of refugees, allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 16 250000 from NOK 103 847,000 to NOK 87 597 000 75 Travel costs for refugees to and from abroad may be carried over, increased by: 726,000 from NOK 11 194 000 to NOK 11 920000 491 Foreigner’s Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 21, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 309 867 000 to NOK 308 867 000 500 Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation 27 Common ICT solution, may be transmitted, granted by: [[NY]] 13,000,000 510 Ministry Security and Service Organisation 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 6,700,000 from NOK 20 087 000 to NOK 26 787 000 530 Construction projects outside the housing arrangement 31 Start of construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 70000000 from NOK 80000000 to NOK 150000000 33 The continuation of construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 170,000,000 from NOK 1 955000000 to NOK 2125000000 533 Non-residential property Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2 210 000 from NOK 20 200000 to NOK 22 410000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 35 500000 from NOK 27000000 to NOK 62 500000 542 International ICT Cooperation and Development Programme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 365 000 from NOK 5 757,000 to NOK 5 392 000 560 Composite 50 The combination is increased by: 2000000 from NOK 310 954000 to NOK 312 954000 571 Framework grants to municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 264 200000 from NOK 125 679 688 000 to NOK 125 943 888 000 64 Discretionary participation, can be used under a hood. 572, entry 64, is increased by 400,000 from NOK 1432 500000 to NOK 1832 500000 585 Lease vis-à-vis the Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 500000 from NOK 28 717 000 to NOK 29 217 000 587 Directorate for Building Quality This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Knowledge development and dissemination are reduced by: 4,800,000 from NOK 53 181000 to NOK 48 381 000 601 Exploration, research and related activities 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 800000 from NOK 53,035000 to NOK 52,235000 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 2 100000 from NOK 34 530000 to NOK 32 430000 605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7690 000 from NOK 11 494 243 000 to NOK 11 501 933 000 606 Social security rights Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,900,000 from NOK 71 771000 to NOK 74 671000 611 Pensions of state funds Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1 400000 from NOK 18 400000 to NOK 17000000 612 Grants to State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 211,000,000 from NOK 4 566000000 to NOK 4 777000000 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 174000000 to NOK 175000000 613 Employer’s fee for social security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 4000000 to NOK 3000000 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 22000000 to NOK 21000000 614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 26000000 to NOK 28000000 90 Loans, estimates, are increased by: 900 000 000 from NOK 3,40000000 to NOK 4,300000000 616 Group life insurance services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 200000000 to NOK 199000000 634 Labour market measures 76 Measures for job seekers may be transferred, increased by: 300000 from NOK 7 477 135000 to NOK 7 477 435000 77 Permanently organised work may be transferred, increased by: 3,700,000 from NOK 1395 460000 to NOK 1399 160 000 635 Wages and salaries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 19000000 to NOK 20000000 660 War Pension 70 Grants, military, allocation of estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 70000000 to NOK 69000000 71 Grants, civil, estimates, are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 184000000 to NOK 180000000 664 Seafarer pension scheme 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 47000000 to NOK 44000000 666 Retirement contract [[AFP]] Grants, estimates, are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 220000000 to NOK 2 210000000 701 E-health, health records, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 1350000 from NOK 250 933 000 to NOK 237 433 000 710 Vaccines, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 45 900 000 from NOK 270 107 000 to NOK 316 007 000 732 Regional health establishments 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 19 587 000 to NOK 18 587 000 70 Specific grants, may be carried over, may be used under headings 72, 73, 74 and 75, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 700 607 000 to NOK 685 607 000 72 Basic appropriations Health south-east RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 652 800000 from NOK 51 985 750000 to NOK 51 332 950000 73 Basic appropriations Health West RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 230 100000 from NOK 18 327 061 000 to NOK 18 096 961000 74 Basic appropriations Health Middle Norway RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 174 100000 from NOK 13 865 726 000 to NOK 13 691 626 000 75 Basic appropriations Health North RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 155 800000 from NOK 12 403 447 000 to NOK 12 247 647 000 77 Laboratory and radiological studies, estimates, are reduced by: 70000000 from NOK 3 129 988 000 to NOK 3 059 988 000 80 VAT compensation, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 28 200000 from NOK 6 414 149 000 to NOK 6 385 949 000 86 Operating credits shall be increased by: 500,000 from NOK 157000000 to NOK 657000000 733 Habilitation and rehabilitation services 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 79, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 14 749 000 to NOK 16 749 000 72 Purchases of training, etc. , may be transmitted, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 2812000 to NOK 1812000 79 Other grants, may be used under item 21, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 6 162000 to NOK 7 162000 740 Directorate for Health Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,700,000 from NOK 1 172 992,000 to NOK 1 169 292 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 12,000,000 from NOK 30 576 000 to NOK 18 576 000 745 Public health institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 39 600 000 from NOK 1059 233 000 to NOK 1019 633 000 746 National Agency for Medicinal Products Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 10,190,000 from NOK 296 510000 to NOK 286 320 000 761 Nursing services 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 79, increased by: 14 500000 from NOK 133,796 000 to NOK 148,296 000 63 Investment grants may be transferred, increased by: 59 300000 from NOK 4038 857,000 to NOK 4098 157 000 64 Compensation for interest and deductions shall be increased by: 53 300000 from NOK 834 500000 to NOK 887 800000 65 Trials of state funding of care services, estimates, are increased by: 140,000,000 from NOK 1274 183 000 to NOK 1414 183 000 75 Other competence measures are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 11 314 000 to NOK 10 814 000 762 Primary Health Service 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 136 527 000 to NOK 129 527 000 61 Prison health services are increased by: 2,300,000 from NOK 172 418 000 to NOK 174 718 000 63 General medical services are increased by: 29,000,000 from NOK 94,672 000 to NOK 123,672 000 64 Escalation plan habilitation and rehabilitation is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 91 736 000 to NOK 89 736 000 765 Psychiatric and drug services 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 72, increased by: 43,000,000 from NOK 103 867 000 to NOK 146 867 000 72 Voluntary work, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under entry 21, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 348 632 000 to NOK 345 632 000 780 Research 50 Norwegian Research Council, etc. , increased by: 1000000 from NOK 330 624 000 to NOK 331 624 000 783 Personnel 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 79, increased by: 12 800000 from NOK 39 783 000 to NOK 52 583 000 800 Ministry of Children and Gender Equality 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 145000 from NOK 9 918 000 to NOK 10 063 000 844 Cash support 70 Grants, estimates, are increased by: 37 820,000 from NOK 1752 180000 to NOK 1790000 845 Child-rescue 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 140,000,000 from NOK 15 070 000 to NOK 14 930000 846 Family and growth measures 61 National grant scheme against child poverty, can be used under item 71, increased by: 140,000,000 from NOK 269 441000 to NOK 409 441 000 860 Consumer Council 51 Market portals, reduced by 900000 from NOK 26 537 000 to NOK 25 637 000 867 Secretariat of the Market Council and Consumer Dispute Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 300000 from NOK 13 520000 to NOK 13 820000 868 Consumer supervision Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 300000 from NOK 27 171000 to NOK 26 871000 871 Equality and non-discrimination 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under heading 70, increased by: 400000 from NOK 11 592 000 to NOK 11 992 000 900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 11 200000 from NOK 52 475000 to NOK 41 275 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Safe management of Norwegian nuclear waste and installations, can be transmitted, reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 58000000 to NOK 53000000 31 Environmental measures Svea and Lunckeberg may be transferred, increased by: 26,000,000 from NOK 141000000 to NOK 167000000 71 Environmental action Raufoss is increased by: 4500000 from NOK 620000 to NOK 10 700 000 75 Grants to specific projects may be transferred, increased by: 2,400,000 from NOK 8 800000 to NOK 11 200000 79 Grants to Mechatronics Innovation Lab, awarded by [[NY]] 41,000,000 83 Grants to the Centre for the Marine and Arctic Issues, awarded by [[NY]] 10000000 902 Adjusters Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,400,000 from NOK 123,185000 to NOK 125,585000 904 The Brønn Island Registers This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Transferability of the ALTIN solution may be increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 274 418 000 to NOK 324 418 000 906 Directorate for Mineral Management with the Bergmeister for Svalbard 31 Environmental measures The loop, can be transmitted, reduced by: 31 500000 from NOK 36 700000 to NOK 520000 907 Norwegian Nuclear Decommissioning 1 Operating costs, granted by: [[NY]] 5000000 909 Measures for employment of seafarers 73 Allowances for employment of seafarers, estimates, are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 230000000 to NOK 2025000000 910 Directorate for Maritime Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23,000,000 from NOK 386 240 000 to NOK 409 240 000 912 General Secretariat for Complaints Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 900000 from NOK 18 195 000 to NOK 19 095 000 917 Directorate for Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7 520,000 from NOK 401 411000 to NOK 408 931000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 67 664 000 to NOK 77 664 000 919 Miscellaneous fishing purposes 60 Grants to municipalities and counties, granted by [[NY]] 2,366,400,000 72 Grants for fishermen’s security training, granted by: [[NY]] 200000 76 Grants for fisheries research may be transferred, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 22 056 000 to NOK 12 056 000 920 Norwegian Research Council 51 Grants for nuclear research are reduced by: 102 500000 from NOK 102 500000 to NOK 0 922 Space activities 70 Quota of European Space Agency [[ESA]] 3,900,000 from NOK 217,310,000 to NOK 221,210 000 71 International space activities are increased by: 750000 from NOK 426 770000 to NOK 434 270 000 923 Marine Research Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 7,480,000 from NOK 613 693 000 to NOK 606 213 000 924 International cooperation and development programmes 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 13 300000 from NOK 29 520000 to NOK 16 220 000 926 Marine Research Institute, research vessel Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7000000 from NOK 157 771,000 to NOK 164 771000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 44 900 000 from NOK 55000000 to NOK 99 900 000 928 Other marine research and development services 50 Grants to the Veterinary Institute shall be reduced by: 240 000 from NOK 57 787 000 to NOK 57 547 000 929 Institute of Energy Engineering 22 Securing of nuclear installations, granted by: [[NY]] 10000000 51 Grants for nuclear research are granted by: [[NY]] 178,000,000 940 Internationalisation measures 73 Aid for exports of capital goods shall be increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 81000000 to NOK 84000000 950 Management of state ownership 70 Responsible Loans, Andøya Space Center, are granted by: [[NY]] 20,000,000 1100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance – ordinary administrative bodies, may be transferred, can be used under heading 50, increased by: 16 692,000 from NOK 2 720 000 to NOK 19 412000 1115 Food Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 1323 239 000 to NOK 1338 239 000 1136 Knowledge development, etc. 50 Knowledge development, dissemination and preparedness, the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, is reduced by: 1 525000 from NOK 235 465 000 to NOK 233 940000 1137 Research and innovation 50 Research activity, the Norwegian Research Council, is reduced by: 277,000 from NOK 242 306 000 to NOK 242 029 000 51 Basic appropriations, etc., the Norwegian Research Council, are reduced by: 1 183,000 from NOK 187 452 000 to NOK 186 269 000 1149 Value-added and development measures in agriculture 71 Contributions to forestry value added measures may be transferred, reduced by: 23,000,000 from NOK 92 300000 to NOK 69 300000 1300 Ministry of Transport Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,036,000 from NOK 189 999 000 to NOK 192 035 000 74 Grants to the Rescue Company shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 93 500000 to NOK 103 500000 1301 Research and development, etc. 21 Environmental, road safety, etc. , is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 15 968 000 to NOK 13 968 000 50 Transport research, may be transferred, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 167 014000 to NOK 165 014000 1320 State Road Service 23 Operation and maintenance services of highways, roads, road and vehicle traffic control services, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under entry 29, entry 30, entry 31 and entry 72 shall be increased by: 28 500000 from NOK 11 759 844 000 to NOK 11 788 344 000 61 Interest compensation for transport measures in the counties is increased by: 90 800000 from NOK 181,700000 to NOK 272,500000 1352 Railway Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1500000 from NOK 457 458 000 to NOK 458 958 000 1357 Mantena AS 71 Capital injection, may be carried over, granted by: [[NY]] 200000000 1370 Postal services 70 Purchases of postal and banking services are increased by: 342,000,000 from NOK 261,700000 to NOK 603,700000 1400 Ministry of Climate and Environment 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 17 210 000 from NOK 84 509 000 to NOK 67 299 000 76 Support for national and international environmental measures may be transferred, reduced by: 13,000,000 from NOK 115 230000 to NOK 102 230000 1411 Species Databases 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under heading 70, increased by: 23 317,000 from NOK 675000 to NOK 29 592,000 50 Species and habitat types, may be transhipped, may be used under headings 21 and 70, reduced by: 16 861,000 from NOK 16 861000 to NOK 0 70 Subsidies to species and habitat types may be transferred, may be used under item 21, increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 11 441000 to NOK 19 441000 1412 Meteorology purposes 70 International cooperation projects are reduced by: 14 873 000 from NOK 166 297 000 to NOK 151 424 000 1420 Directorate for the Environment 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 600 000 from NOK 257 570000 to NOK 256 970000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. State action on the aquatic environment is increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 279 369 000 to NOK 283 369 000 23 Mission and fee-related activities may be transferred, increased by: 1,820,000 from NOK 132 462 000 to NOK 134 282 000 34 State acquisitions, national parks, may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 19 200000 61 Contributions to climate action and adaptation may be transferred, reduced by: 74,000,000 from NOK 153 920000 to NOK 79 920000 69 Cleaning measures, may be carried over, can be used under items 39 and 79, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 96 962 000 to NOK 86 962 000 70 Subsidies for aquatic environmental measures may be transferred, increased by: 3,200,000 from NOK 42 755000 to NOK 45 955000 76 Reimbursement schemes, estimates, are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 119 462 000 to NOK 129 462 000 1428 Energy conversion, energy and climate technologies 50 Transfer to the Climate and Energy Fund shall be increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 2 720000000 to NOK 2733000000 1429 Riksantikvaren 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 2 100000 from NOK 36,727,000 to NOK 38,827,000 60 Cultural memory work in municipalities is reduced by: 2 100000 from NOK 15 716 000 to NOK 13 616 000 1473 Kings Bay AS 70 Grants shall be increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 21 642 000 to NOK 46 642 000 1600 Ministry of Finance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 372,865000 to NOK 370,865000 1605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 37,000,000 from NOK 457 344 000 to NOK 494 344 000 1610 Customs duties Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 31 100000 from NOK 1487 947 000 to NOK 1519 047 000 1618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 80 100000 from NOK 5 762 275 000 to NOK 5 842 375 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 8,900,000 from NOK 195 300000 to NOK 204 200000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Major IT projects may be transferred, reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 576 500000 to NOK 536 500000 1620 Statistical Central Bureau Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 564 874 000 to NOK 569 874 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 14 600 000 to NOK 19 600 000 1632 Compensation for VAT 72 Grants to private and non-profit institutions serving households, estimates, are reduced by: 60,000,000 from NOK 2160000000 to NOK 2 10000000 1651 Central government debt, repayments and redemptions 98 Deductions on domestic government debt, estimate appropriations, by [[NY]] 20,000,000 1700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 8,650,000 from NOK 801 119 000 to NOK 809 769 000 71 Transfers to others may be transferred, reduced by: 525000 from NOK 65 234 000 to NOK 64 709 000 78 Norway’s grant to NATO and international operating budgets may be transferred, reduced by: 62 003 000 from NOK 305 523,000 to NOK 243 520000 1720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3353,000 from NOK 9 609 482,000 to NOK 9 612 835000 1723 National safety authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 268 947 000 to NOK 278 947 000 1731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 70 330000 from NOK 5 066 104 000 to NOK 5 136 434 000 1732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 36,417,000 from NOK 4 114 269 000 to NOK 4077 852 000 1733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 153,765000 from NOK 4 936 621 000 to NOK 5 090 386 000 1734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 79 604,000 from NOK 1241,819,000 to NOK 1321,423,000 1735 Intelligence 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 25 369 000 from NOK 1905 510000 to NOK 1930 879 000 1760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1760, entry 45, increased by 45,535,000 from NOK 1587 607 000 to NOK 1633 142 000 44 Joint funded investments, nationally financed shares, may be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 96 331000 to NOK 81 331000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be carried over, may be used under cover. 1761, entry 45 is increased by 28 621,000 from NOK 5 914 782,000 to NOK 5 943 403 000 48 Jointly financed investments, jointly financed, may be transferred, reduced by: 3,816,000 from NOK 71 500000 to NOK 67 684000 1790 Coast Guard Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 87 625000 from NOK 1027 838 000 to NOK 940 213 000 1791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 96/824,000 from NOK 854 745000 to NOK 951 569 000 1792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 757,000 from NOK 1009 909 000 to NOK 1 010 666 000 1811 Statoil ASA 96 Shares are reduced by: 146,000,000 from NOK 190000000 to NOK 1754000000 1820 Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Flow and cutting prevention, may be transmitted, can be used under items 45, 60 and 72, increased by: 200000000 from NOK 261 454 000 to NOK 461 454 000 1840 CO 2 management 70 Administration, Gassnova SF, may be transferred, may be used under items 21 and 72, increased by: 11,000,000 from NOK 106 127 000 to NOK 117 127 000 72 Full scale CO 2 handling, can be transferred, can be used under items 21 and 70, increased by: 69,000,000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 89000000 2309 Random expense Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 160,000,000 from NOK 4 4 498 022 000 to NOK 4 338 022 000 2410 State Loan Fund for Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 45, increased by: 3,049,000 from NOK 391 399 000 to NOK 394 448 000 50 Appropriations for education grants, estimates, are increased by: 125,015,000 from NOK 6 929 577 000 to NOK 7 054 592 000 70 Training grants, estimates, are increased by: 151 489 000 from NOK 2806 225 000 to NOK 2 957 714 000 71 Other scholarships, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 54 565 000 from NOK 775 837 000 to NOK 721 272 000 72 Interest subsidies, estimates, are increased by: 192,825,000 from NOK 1011 612000 to NOK 1 204 437 000 73 Depreciation, estimate allocation, is reduced by: 7 524 000 from NOK 610 420000 to NOK 602 896 000 74 Loan losses are reduced by: 9 350 000 from NOK 385 550000 to NOK 376 200000 90 Increases in loans and interest payable, estimates are reduced by: 31 194,000 from NOK 27 218,070000 to NOK 27,186,876,000 2412 The Bank of Homes 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 11 263 000 to NOK 10 763 000 2421 Innovation Norway 51 Loss reserves, seed reserves and co-investment funds are increased by: 7 425000 from NOK 37 200000 to NOK 44 625000 53 Risk relief, seed and co-investment funds are increased by: 3,700,000 from NOK 18 800000 to NOK 22 500000 70 Basic costs are reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 167 767 000 to NOK 166 267 000 74 Travel life, profiling and competence may be transferred, increased by: 11 500000 from NOK 535000 to NOK 546 500000 76 Environmental technologies, can be transmitted, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 565 500000 to NOK 555 500000 80 Activities of Svalbard, financed by: [[NY]] 640000 95 Equity, seed and co-investment funds are increased by: 21 200000 from NOK 106 300000 to NOK 127 500000 2445 State-owned buildings 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -4 860 000 000 2 Operating expenditure 2 115 069 000 3 Depreciation 1123 814 000 4 Interest on the capital of the country 86 000 000 5 For investment purposes 1,279 976 000 6 To the Regulatory Fund -150 000 000 Syd -405 141,000 30 Building design, may be transferred, increased by: 143,000,000 from NOK 206 401,000 to NOK 349 401000 31 The start of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, reduced by: 65 000 000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 35000000 32 Design and launch of currant projects may be transferred, increased by: 150000000 from NOK 250000000 to NOK 40000000 2470 General government pension fund 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -664 825 000, statement of estimates 2 Operating expenditure 434 922 000, statement of estimates 3 Depreciation 123 760,000 4 Interest on national capital 1,249 000 5 For investment purposes 75 000 000 6 For regulatory fund 11 691 000 Syd -18 203 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 40 741000 to NOK 90 741000 2530 Parental carcass 70 Birth culls, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 871,000,000 from NOK 20 061000000 to NOK 19 190000000 71 Birth and adoption lump sum estimates are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 625000 to NOK 615000 72 Parental leave allowance, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 490000 to NOK 475000 73 In the event of adoption, the estimates are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 58000000 to NOK 61000000 2541 Day money 70 Appropriations for the day shall be reduced by: 1 738,000,000 from NOK 13 348 000 to NOK 11 610 000 2542 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. 70 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. , estimates are increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 7950000000 to NOK 840000 2620 Social benefits to a lonely mother or father 70 Transitional assistance, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 240,000,000 from NOK 2170000000 to NOK 1930000000 73 Supplementary and school-related social benefits, estimates are increased by: 725000 from NOK 91 275 000 to NOK 92000000 76 Contribution advance shall be reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 745000000 to NOK 725000 2650 Sykepenger 70 Sickness allowance for employees, etc. , estimates are reduced by: 1,250,000,000 from NOK 37 490 000 to NOK 36 290 000 71 Sickness benefits for self-employed persons, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 1490000000 to NOK 1450000000 72 Nursing, training, n.e.c. , estimates are reduced by: 276,000,000 from NOK 1271000000 to NOK 995000000 75 Health care holiday pay, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 60,000,000 from NOK 270000000 to NOK 2 010000000 2651 Clearance of duties 70 Clearance of work, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 1 002,000,000 from NOK 34 812000000 to NOK 33 810000000 71 Supplementary aid, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 27 260 000 from NOK 267 260000 to NOK 240000000 72 Medical statements shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 415000000 to NOK 425000 2655 Disability 70 Misappropriation, allocation of estimates, increased by: 870,000,000 from NOK 86 33000000 to NOK 87 200000000 75 Men’s compensation in the event of occupational injury, estimates are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 83000000 to NOK 84000000 2661 Basic and auxiliary aid, aids, etc. 70 Basic aid, estimates, is increased by: 9 130 000 from NOK 1900 870000 to NOK 1910000000 71 Auxiliary services, estimate appropriations, increased by 10,625,000 from NOK 1549 375000 to NOK 1560000000 73 Utilities, etc. in the course of work and training, shall be reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 128000000 to NOK 126000000 74 Supplements to cars are reduced by: 69,875,000 from NOK 809 875000 to NOK 740000 75 Improvements in functionality, assistive devices, are increased by: 158 820,000 from NOK 3211 180000 to NOK 3370000000 76 Improvement of functionality, assistive devices such as services, is reduced by: 4,600,000 from NOK 309 600 000 to NOK 305000000 77 Orthopaedic aids shall be increased by: 66 975,000 from NOK 1533 025 000 to NOK 1 600 000 78 Hearing aids, reduced by: 1 975 000 from NOK 711 975000 to NOK 71000000 2670 Age 70 Basic pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 590,000 from NOK 73 430000 to NOK 72 840000 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 1110,000,000 from NOK 142 030000000 to NOK 140 920000 72 Pensions on income, estimates, are reduced by: 120,000,000 from NOK 1520000000 to NOK 140000 000 73 Special supplements, pension supplements etc. , estimates are increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 6080000000 to NOK 6 180000000 2680 Survivors 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 820000 to NOK 835000 72 Special supplement, estimated appropriation, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 81000000 to NOK 86000000 75 Support for child-care, estimates, is increased by: 100000 from NOK 490000 to NOK 5000000 2686 gravitational assistance 70 gravitational allowances, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 110000 from NOK 190 110000 to NOK 189000000 2711 Specialist health services, etc. 70 Specialist assistance, reduced by: 27 600 000 from NOK 2 007 600 000 to NOK 1 980 000 71 Psychological assistance, reduced by: 560000 from NOK 305 600 000 to NOK 300000 000 72 Dental treatment, reduced by: 1 600 000 from NOK 2 411 600 000 to NOK 2 410 000 76 Private laboratories and X-ray institutes shall be reduced by: 8,200,000 from NOK 998 200000 to NOK 990000000 2751 Medicinal products n.e.c. 70 Medicinal products, reduced by 215 200000 from NOK 10 162 200000 to NOK 9 947 000 71 Medical statements shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 6000000 to NOK 7000000 72 Medical consumables are reduced by: 38 300000 from NOK 2 018 300000 to NOK 1980000000 2752 Reimbursement of self-payment 70 Self-proprietary share cap 1 is increased by: 54 300000 from NOK 5098 200000 to NOK 5 152 500000 71 Self-proprietary cap 2, reduced by: 99 500000 from NOK 1089 500000 to NOK 990000000 2755 Health services in municipalities etc. 62 Remuneration scheme physiotherapists, may be used under heading 71, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 380000000 to NOK 390000000 70 General medical care is reduced by: 88 500000 from NOK 4 996000000 to NOK 4 907 500000 71 Physiotherapy, may be used under heading 62, reduced by: 81 800000 from NOK 161 800000 to NOK 1080000000 72 midwifery, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 62000000 to NOK 60000000 73 Chiropractor therapy is increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 157000000 to NOK 165000000 75 Logopedic and orthopaedic treatments are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 162000000 to NOK 161000000 2756 Other health services 70 Health services in other EEA countries are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 23000000 to NOK 22000000 71 Health services abroad etc. , is reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 485000000 to NOK 460000 72 Health services to non-residents, etc. , increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 215000000 to NOK 230000000 2790 Other health measures 70 Contributions, reduced by 12 800000 from NOK 247 800000 to NOK 235000000 3041 Size Add User-ID Succeeded Sales revenue is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 8 300000 to NOK 9 300000 3225 Basic training measures 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 11 552,000 from NOK 55 119 000 to NOK 43 567 000 3287 Research institutes and other activities 96 Share capital – CESSDA AS, granted by [[NY]] 50000 3291 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Integration grants for transfer refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 22 975 000 from NOK 197,200000 to NOK 220,175000 2 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 62 092,000 from NOK 113 874 000 to NOK 51 782 000 3292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Norwegian receipt training, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 29 543,000 from NOK 50 505000 to NOK 20 962000 3410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Legal fee, reduced by: 19 800000 from NOK 385 310000 to NOK 365 510000 3440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat 6 Fee — Foreign affairs, reduced by: 3,392,000 from NOK 268 284 000 to NOK 264 892 000 3445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office 2 Reimbursements, granted by [[NY]] 2000000 3456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Subscription income is reduced by: 120000 from NOK 338 696 000 to NOK 337 496 000 2 Reimbursements of operating costs shall be reduced by: 9 250000 from NOK 42 204 000 to NOK 32 954000 3469 Vertegration scheme Add User-ID Succeeded Vergemåls/representative scheme, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 5,430,000 from NOK 9 360 000 to NOK 330000 3490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Return of asylum seekers with a refusal and return for refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 15 440,000 from NOK 115 468 000 to NOK 100 028 000 3 Travel expenses for refugees to and from abroad, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 1,705,000 from NOK 12 445000 to NOK 14 150000 4 Asylum recipients, ODA-approved expenditure, are reduced by: 221 461,000 from NOK 706 714 000 to NOK 485 253 000 3587 Directorate for Building Quality 4 Fees shall be reduced by: 570000 from NOK 50,070000 to NOK 44,370000 3605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Administrative allowances shall be reduced by: 6,310,000 from NOK 14 830000 to NOK 8 520000 6 Fee income for the determination of contributions shall be reduced by: 2,020,000 from NOK 27 720 000 to NOK 25 700 000 3614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Fee income, loans, is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 22000000 to NOK 23000000 90 Repayment of loans shall be reduced by: 1,300,000 from NOK 13 600000000 to NOK 12 300000 000 3616 Group life insurance services Add User-ID Succeeded Premium income is reduced by: 12,000,000 from NOK 118000000 to NOK 106000000 3635 Wages and salaries, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursement of State activities, etc. , is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 12000000 85 Invitation to the payment of outstanding wages and salaries is reduced by: 100000 from NOK 400000 to NOK 300000 3740 Directorate for Health 4 Fee revenue shall be reduced by: 4,700,000 from NOK 42 635000 to NOK 37 935000 5 Health services to non-residents, etc. , is reduced by: 7,373,000 from NOK 69 373 000 to NOK 62 000 000 3746 National Agency for Medicinal Products 4 Registration fee shall be reduced by: 9 520,000 from NOK 90 059 000 to NOK 80 539 000 5 Reimbursement fee shall be reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 3087 000 to NOK 587 000 3855 State administration of child protection 60 Local features are reduced by: 74,000,000 from NOK 1472 039 000 to NOK 1398 039 000 3856 Childcare centre for lone minor asylum seekers 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 76 964 000 from NOK 138 536 000 to NOK 61 572 000 3871 Equality and non-discrimination 1 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 1 400000 3902 Adjusters Add User-ID Succeeded Fee revenue shall be reduced by: 11 500000 from NOK 38 924 000 to NOK 27 424 000 3 Revenue from the sale of services is increased by: 500000 from NOK 16 667 000 to NOK 22 167 000 86 Infringement fee, granted by [[NY]] 60000 3910 Directorate for Maritime Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Charges for ships and mobile appliances in NOR shall be increased by: 35,000,000 from NOK 182 729 000 to NOK 217 729 000 3917 Directorate for Fisheries 13 Income from breeding concessions, granted by: [[NY]] 2864 400,000 3950 Management of state ownership 87 Deposit – guarantee scheme, Export finance ASA, granted by [[NY]] 21 700 000 90 Discounts on loans, Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkompani AS, are granted by [[NY]] 2,700,000 4100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 40 Sale of property, by: [[NY]] 16 692,000 4136 Knowledge development, etc. 30 Husleie, Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, is reduced by: 2,985,000 from NOK 20 643 000 to NOK 17 658 000 4300 Ministry of Transport 96 Shares, by [[NY]] 300000 4322 Svinesund compound AS 90 Deductions from loans shall be increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 75000000 to NOK 90000000 4411 Species Databases 2 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 14,456,000 4420 Directorate for the Environment 4 Fees, the pollution area, shall be increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 38 132 000 to NOK 39 532 000 7 Fees, allowances system, are increased by: 450,000 from NOK 8 077 000 to NOK 8 527 000 4429 Riksantikvaren 2 Reimbursements and miscellaneous income are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 4 506 000 to NOK 2 506 000 9 International missions are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 1277 000 to NOK 3277 000 4605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Economic services are increased by: 37,000,000 from NOK 50 600 000 to NOK 87 600 000 4610 Customs duties 2 Other income is increased by: 1 100000 from NOK 897 000 to NOK 1997 000 4618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursed call and call charges shall be increased by: 18,000,000 from NOK 59000000 to NOK 77000000 7 Fee for binding prior opinions shall be increased by: 1 100000 from NOK 210000 to NOK 350000 89 Infringement fee shall be reduced by: 9000000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 4000000 4720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 94 253 000 from NOK 224 107 000 to NOK 318 360 000 4732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 640000 from NOK 54 174 000 to NOK 47 774 000 4733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 200000 from NOK 107 660000 to NOK 107 860000 4760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 22,293,000 from NOK 30 174 000 to NOK 52 467 000 45 Larger equipment acquisition and maintenance, revenue, granted by [[NY]] 54,792,000 4791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 96/824,000 from NOK 766,460,000 to NOK 863,284000 4792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 8,429 000 from NOK 39 312 000 to NOK 30 883 000 4811 Statoil ASA 96 Dividend shares are reduced by: 146,000,000 from NOK 190000000 to NOK 1754000000 5309 Random income 29 Miscellaneous, incremented by 200000000 from NOK 150000000 to NOK 350000000 5310 State Loan Fund for Education 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 810000 from NOK 23 600 000 to NOK 24 410000 29 Appointment fee shall be reduced by: 1,869,000 from NOK 18 512000 to NOK 16 643 000 89 Pure fees shall be reduced by: 1 208 000 from NOK 104,672 000 to NOK 103,464 000 90 Reduced loans and interest payable are increased by: 64 874 000 from NOK 10 172 117 000 to NOK 10 236 991000 93 Conversion of training loans into scholarships shall be increased by: 295 276 000 from NOK 6 409 778 000 to NOK 6 705 054 000 5325 Innovation Norway 50 Return from a nationwide innovation scheme is increased by: 20,700,000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 40 700 000 85 The repayment of depreciated loans from seed capital funds shall be granted by: [[NY]] 9 400000 91 Returned capital, seed funds, is reduced by: 900000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 9 100000 5341 Deductions on outstanding receivables 98 Deductions on own-account government bonds, granted by: [[NY]] 20,000,000 5351 Transfer from Norway’s Bank 85 Transfer is reduced by: 167 400000 from NOK 14 50000000 to NOK 14 332 600 000 5440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue 153 200000000 2 Operating expenditure -28 300000000 3 Expenses of exploration and field development -2 100000000 4 Depreciation -26 000 000 000 5 Interest on the capital of the country -3 300 000 000 Syd 93 50,000,000 30 Depreciation is increased by: 3,800,000 from NOK 22 200000000 to NOK 26000000 5445 State-owned buildings 39 Provisions for investment purposes are increased by: 150000000 from NOK 129,976 000 to NOK 1279,976 000 5460 Export Credit Guarantee Institute 73 Recovery from the SUS/Baltic system shall be granted by: [[NY]] 32 500000 5470 General government pension fund 30 Provisions for investment purposes are increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 25000000 to NOK 75000000 5491 Depreciation of the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 30 Depreciation is increased by: 19 309,000 from NOK 1,232 865000 to NOK 1252 174 000 5521 Value added tax 70 VAT is increased by: 338 300000 from NOK 291 50000000 to NOK 291 838 300000 5526 Charge on alcohol 70 Charges on alcohol are reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 13 80000000 to NOK 13 793000000 5536 Fee on motor vehicles, etc. 71 One-off fee shall be increased by: 5000000 from NOK 15 935000 to NOK 15 940000 5555 Fee on chocolate and sugar confectionery, etc. 70 Fee on chocolate and sugar confectionery, etc. , is reduced by: 375,000,000 from NOK 2520000000 to NOK 2255000000 5556 Fee for non-alcoholic beverages, etc. 70 Fee for non-alcoholic beverages, etc. , is reduced by: 300000 000 from NOK 3170000000 to NOK 2870000000 5572 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Health and Welfare 74 Supervisory fee, reduced by: 3770 000 from NOK 3770 000 to NOK 0 5576 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food 72 Hunting and felling fees shall be increased by: 9 763,000 from NOK 90 915000 to NOK 100 678 000 5607 Interest of the housing loan scheme in the State pension fund 80 Interest is increased by: 295,000,000 from NOK 825000 to NOK 1120000000 5611 NSB AS shares 85 Dividends are increased by: 165 000 from NOK 150000000 to NOK 315000000 5612 Interest from the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kullkompani AS 80 Interests granted by: [[NY]] 3,200,000 5617 Interest of the State Loan Fund for Education 80 Interest is increased by: 727 406,000 from NOK 3880 231 000 to NOK 4 607 637 000 5622 Shares in Avinor AS 85 Dividends are increased by: 17 700 000 from NOK 232000000 to NOK 249 700 000 5624 Interest of the Svinesund compound AS 80 Interest is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 4000000 to NOK 3000000 5625 Interest and dividends from Innovation Norway 81 The interest margin, the innovation loan scheme, is increased by: 4,900,000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 24 900 000 85 Dividends, the Low Risk Loan Facility, are increased by: 121,000,000 from NOK 125000000 to NOK 246000000 88 Return of dividends from seed capital funds granted by: [[NY]] 13 100000 5631 Shares in AS Vinmonopolet 85 The surplus share of the country is reduced by: 7 400000 from NOK 70 900 000 to NOK 63 500000 5652 Landskog SF - interest and dividends 80 Interest is reduced by: 600 000 from NOK 630000 to NOK 30 000 85 Dividends are increased by: 34,000,000 from NOK 26000000 to NOK 60000000 5656 Shares in companies under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 85 Dividends are increased by: 3,083,500,000 from NOK 16 962 219 000 to NOK 20 045 719 000 5680 Statnett SF 85 Dividends are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 336000000 to NOK 326000000 5701 Miscellaneous income 71 Reimbursement in the event of occupational injury shall be reduced by: 126 900 000 from NOK 1076 827 000 to NOK 949 927 000 73 Reimbursement by contributors shall be increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 225000000 to NOK 240000000 86 Recovery of errors, increased by: 582,000,000 from NOK 718000000 to NOK 130000000000 87 Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 18,000,000 from NOK 34 600 000 to NOK 16 600 000 88 Assistive Technology Centres, etc. , increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 61000000 to NOK 65000000 5705 Reimbursement of daily allowances 70 Reimbursement of daily allowances, State guarantee in the event of bankruptcy, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 23000000 to NOK 28000000 71 Reimbursement of daily allowances for frontier workers, etc. resided in Norway, reduced by 200000 from NOK 800000 to NOK 600000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e18280	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 61, 63 and 65, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2018 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 21 Government Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 173 061 000 to NOK 181 061 000 41 Size Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 961,300000 to NOK 965,300000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, granted by: [[NY]] 2000000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 376 700 000 from NOK 593 400000 to NOK 970 100000 70 Grants to the batches shall be increased by: 6000000 from NOK 186000000 to NOK 192000000 61 Supreme Court Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 109 750000 to NOK 111 150000 100 Ministry of Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 8 600 000 from NOK 2 253 292,000 to NOK 2 244 692,000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 12 931000 to NOK 17 931000 116 Participation in international organisations 70 Grants to international organisations shall be reduced by: 150000000 from NOK 1499 500000 to NOK 1349 500000 118 North-area actions, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under items 70 and 71, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 38 204 000 to NOK 43 204 000 150 Aid to Africa 78 Regional allocation for Africa may be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 2728 640000 to NOK 2713 640000 151 Aid to Asia 72 Assistance to Afghanistan may be transferred, increased by: 6000000 from NOK 565000000 to NOK 571000000 162 Transitional aid/vulnerable countries and regions 70 Transitional aid/vulnerable countries and regions may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 343000000 to NOK 353000000 163 Emergency aid, humanitarian aid and human rights 70 Emergency aid and humanitarian aid may be transferred, increased by: 116 202,000 from NOK 4 511000000 to NOK 4 627 202 000 72 Human rights, can be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 360000000 to NOK 370000 000 165 Research, empowerment and evaluation 71 Professional cooperation, may be transferred, increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 428 658 000 to NOK 441 658 000 166 Climate, environment and renewable energy 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 65 000 000 72 Climate and environment, can be transmitted, increased by: 208,000,000 from NOK 917 200000 to NOK 1125 200000 167 Refugee measures in Norway, approved as development aid [[ODA]] Special operating costs are reduced by: 397 802,000 from NOK 1425 477 000 to NOK 1027 675000 168 Women's rights and equality 70 Women's rights and equality may be transferred, increased by: 7 600 000 from NOK 346 700000 to NOK 354 300000 169 Global health and education 70 Global health, can be transmitted, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 3,218,916,000 to NOK 3,233,916,000 170 United Nations organisations, etc. 76 United Nations and global challenges, can be transmitted, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 212 300000 to NOK 222 300000 81 Food security and agricultural climate change, can be transmitted, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 275000000 to NOK 285000000 83 World Health Organisation [[WHO]] 20,000,000 from NOK 183 500000 to NOK 203 500000 171 Multilateral financial institutions 71 Regional banks and funds may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 840000 to NOK 837000000 225 Basic training measures 64 Aid for the training of children and young people seeking residence in Norway is reduced by: 210 000 from NOK 111 351000 to NOK 111 141 000 65 Interest compensation for school and swimming facilities may be transferred, increased by: 98 245000 from NOK 199 608 000 to NOK 297 853 000 68 Subsidies for training in criminal services are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 287 542 000 to NOK 292 542 000 226 Quality development of initial training 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 26 245000 from NOK 1040 466 000 to NOK 1066 711000 63 Early school effort through increased teacher effort of 1–10. Steps shall be reduced by: 11 535000 from NOK 1529 048 000 to NOK 1517 513 000 240 Vocational education 60 Grants to post-secondary schools are increased by: 7 130 000 from NOK 651 079 000 to NOK 658 209 000 241 Joint actions for the vocational education sector 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 7 130 000 from NOK 20 248 000 to NOK 13 118 000 255 Contribution to Peace and Human Rights Centres 70 Centres for the Study of Holocaust and Life Vision Minorities are increased by 822,000 from NOK 33 858 000 to NOK 34 680000 75 The European Wergeland Centre shall be increased by: 500000 from NOK 9 218 000 to NOK 9 718 000 257 Competence plus 70 Grants may be transferred, reduced by: 822,000 from NOK 157 167 000 to NOK 156 345000 258 Measures for lifelong learning 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 1, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 123 391 000 to NOK 133 391 000 260 Universities and higher education institutions 50 State universities and higher education institutions are increased by: 720000 from NOK 34 355 141 000 to NOK 34 362 361 000 270 International mobility and social purposes for students 74 Subsidies for welfare work are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 87 044 000 to NOK 88 044 000 280 Common Units 51 Operation of national joint tasks shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 85 091000 to NOK 95 091000 71 Grants to UNIS shall be increased by: 6000000 from NOK 132 349 000 to NOK 138 349 000 281 Joint actions for universities and higher education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under heading 70, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 351,664 000 to NOK 366,664 000 73 Grants to international programmes shall be increased by: 120000 from NOK 64 475000 to NOK 65 675000 285 Norwegian Research Council 55 Business costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 801,868,000 to NOK 803,868,000 287 Research institutes and other activities 53 NUPI, increased by 535000 from NOK 4904000 to NOK 5439000 288 International cooperation actions 72 International basic research organisations are reduced by: 27 802,000 from NOK 338 558 000 to NOK 310 756 000 73 The EU Framework Programme for Research may be transferred, increased by: 8,778 000 from NOK 2 199 232 000 to NOK 2 208 010 000 75 UNESCO quota shall be reduced by: 1 127 000 from NOK 24 341000 to NOK 23 214000 290 Directorate for Integration and Diversity Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 670000 from NOK 241 314 000 to NOK 248 064 000 291 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants 21 Special operating costs, knowledge development, may be transferred, increased by: 1500000 from NOK 44 572 000 to NOK 46 072 000 60 Integration grants, may be transferred, increased by: 144 154,000 from NOK 11 254 978 000 to NOK 11 399 132 000 61 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 456 473,000 from NOK 3329 422 000 to NOK 2 872 949 000 71 Grants to migrant organisations and other voluntary activities are increased by: 1,542 000 from NOK 107 860000 to NOK 109 402000 292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants 60 Grants for training in Norwegian and community skills for adult immigrants are increased by: 15 297 000 from NOK 1 997 096 000 to NOK 2 012 393 000 315 Voluntary objectives 72 Grants for voluntary activities for children and young people are reduced by: 2,580 000 from NOK 6000000 to NOK 3420000 78 Various fixed measures are increased by: 4500000 from NOK 8 350 000 to NOK 12 850000 79 At its disposal, shall be reduced by: 1 920,000 from NOK 14 500000 to NOK 12580000 82 VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities is increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 185000000 to NOK 285000000 87 Grants to X Games, awarded by [[NY]] 3,000,000 322 Building and public spaces 50 Arts in public spaces are reduced by: 20 500000 from NOK 25 440000 to NOK 4 940000 323 Music and performing arts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1 320 000 from NOK 93 477 000 to NOK 92 157 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 59 458 000 to NOK 62 458 000 325 General cultural purposes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3880 000 from NOK 95 887 000 to NOK 92 007 000 21 Research, investigation and special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 16 173 000 to NOK 19 173 000 75 EU Culture and Audiovisual Programme, etc. , may be transmitted, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 47 550000 to NOK 45 550000 78 Various firm measures are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 50 440000 to NOK 45 440000 334 Film and media applications Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 946,000 from NOK 166 653 000 to NOK 168 599 000 50 The Film Fund shall be increased by: 21,000,000 from NOK 489 300000 to NOK 510 300000 335 Media support 71 Production grants shall be reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 320000000 to NOK 313000000 72 Innovation and development, granted by: [[NY]] 7000000 339 Gambling, lotteries and foundations Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 700000 from NOK 79 724 000 to NOK 79 024 000 340 The Norwegian Church 70 Framework grants to the Norwegian Church shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 2041 100000 to NOK 2042 100000 342 Cemeteries and cemeteries 60 Interest compensation – church buildings, may be transferred, increased by: 16,000,000 from NOK 33 341000 to NOK 49 341000 400 Ministry of Justice and Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 464 234 000 to NOK 465 234 000 23 Special operational expenditure, research, evaluation and knowledge acquisition may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 24 692,000 to NOK 29 692,000 71 Grants to international organisations are increased by: 37 000 from NOK 14 020000 to NOK 14 057000 410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 26 400000 from NOK 2451 320 000 to NOK 2477 720 000 430 Crime prevention services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 60 367,000 from NOK 4 670 787 000 to NOK 4 610 420 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 27 400000 from NOK 23 619 000 to NOK 51 019 000 432 College and educational centre of criminal services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23 067 000 from NOK 242 958000 to NOK 266 025 000 440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 46,000,000 from NOK 17 101 318 000 to NOK 17 147 318 000 73 Grants to the EU Border and Visa Fund are increased by: 770000 from NOK 184000000 to NOK 191 700000 442 Police College Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 190 000 from NOK 627 039 000 to NOK 625 139 000 444 Police security service [[PST]] Operating costs are increased by: 4 100000 from NOK 861,215000 to NOK 865,315000 445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 252 753 000 to NOK 254 753 000 451 Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 456, entry 1 is increased by 2,900,000 from NOK 757 881000 to NOK 760 781 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 35,000,000 from NOK 7 234 000 to NOK 42 234 000 454 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 12 800000 from NOK 687 887 000 to NOK 675 087 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 241,706,000 from NOK 2 513 208 000 to NOK 2 271 502 000 455 Rescue services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 103,978 000 to NOK 106,978 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 8 717 000 to NOK 5 717 000 71 Grants to non-governmental organisations in the rescue services are increased by: 12 100000 from NOK 47 652,000 to NOK 59 752,000 72 Emergency and security services grants shall be reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 109 536 000 to NOK 107 036 000 456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 451, entry 1 is increased by: 47 350 000 from NOK 121 102000 to NOK 168 452 000 21 Special operational expenditure — infrastructure Emergency networks, reduced by: 18 900 000 from NOK 357,001 000 to NOK 338 101 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 34 352 000 to NOK 44 352 000 467 Norwegian Lovtidend Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,476,000 from NOK 4 276 000 to NOK 5 752 000 470 Free legal aid Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 94 853 000 from NOK 687 039 000 to NOK 781 892 000 471 State liability and compensation scheme of the Storting 72 Compensation in the event of criminal prosecution, the allocation of an estimate, shall be increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 59 702,000 to NOK 89 702,000 73 The capital allowance scheme shall be reduced by: 640000 from NOK 31 388 000 to NOK 24 988 000 474 Conflict Board Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 800000 from NOK 118 433 000 to NOK 117 633 000 475 Out-of-court settlement services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 90 223 000 to NOK 103 223 000 480 Svalbard budget 50 Grants shall be increased by: 53,000,000 from NOK 238 370000 to NOK 291,370000 490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 9000000 from NOK 992 010 000 to NOK 983 010 000 21 Special operating costs, asylum receipts, are reduced by: 224 455000 from NOK 1019 623 000 to NOK 795 168 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Special operating costs, interpretation and translation, are reduced by: 10,423,000 from NOK 31 876 000 to NOK 21 453 000 30 Conversions, arrival centres for asylum registration and reception may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 97 900 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 3,600,000 from NOK 117 170000 to NOK 120 770000 60 Grants to host municipalities for asylum recipients shall be reduced by: 22,159,000 from NOK 208 053 000 to NOK 185 894000 70 Social benefits for residents in reception of asylum are reduced by: 30,753,000 from NOK 147 739 000 to NOK 116 986 000 72 Return of asylum seekers with rejection and return of refugees, allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 16 250000 from NOK 103 847,000 to NOK 87 597 000 75 Travel costs for refugees to and from abroad may be carried over, increased by: 726,000 from NOK 11 194 000 to NOK 11 920000 491 Foreigner’s Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 21, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 309 867 000 to NOK 308 867 000 500 Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation 27 Common ICT solution, may be transmitted, granted by: [[NY]] 13,000,000 510 Ministry Security and Service Organisation 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 6,700,000 from NOK 20 087 000 to NOK 26 787 000 530 Construction projects outside the housing arrangement 31 Start of construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 70000000 from NOK 80000000 to NOK 150000000 33 The continuation of construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 170,000,000 from NOK 1 955000000 to NOK 2125000000 533 Non-residential property Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2 210 000 from NOK 20 200000 to NOK 22 410000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 35 500000 from NOK 27000000 to NOK 62 500000 542 International ICT Cooperation and Development Programme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 365 000 from NOK 5 757,000 to NOK 5 392 000 560 Composite 50 The combination is increased by: 2000000 from NOK 310 954000 to NOK 312 954000 571 Framework grants to municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are reduced by: 35 800000 from NOK 125 679 688 000 to NOK 125 643 888 000 585 Lease vis-à-vis the Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 500000 from NOK 28 717 000 to NOK 29 217 000 587 Directorate for Building Quality This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Knowledge development and dissemination are reduced by: 4,800,000 from NOK 53 181000 to NOK 48 381 000 601 Exploration, research and related activities 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 800000 from NOK 53,035000 to NOK 52,235000 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 2 100000 from NOK 34 530000 to NOK 32 430000 605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7690 000 from NOK 11 494 243 000 to NOK 11 501 933 000 606 Social security rights Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,900,000 from NOK 71 771000 to NOK 74 671000 611 Pensions of state funds Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1 400000 from NOK 18 400000 to NOK 17000000 612 Grants to State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 211,000,000 from NOK 4 566000000 to NOK 4 777000000 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 174000000 to NOK 175000000 613 Employer’s fee for social security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 4000000 to NOK 3000000 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 22000000 to NOK 21000000 614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 26000000 to NOK 28000000 90 Loans, estimates, are increased by: 900 000 000 from NOK 3,40000000 to NOK 4,300000000 616 Group life insurance services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 200000000 to NOK 199000000 634 Labour market measures 76 Measures for job seekers may be transferred, increased by: 300000 from NOK 7 477 135000 to NOK 7 477 435000 77 Permanently organised work may be transferred, increased by: 3,700,000 from NOK 1395 460000 to NOK 1399 160 000 635 Wages and salaries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 19000000 to NOK 20000000 660 War Pension 70 Grants, military, allocation of estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 70000000 to NOK 69000000 71 Grants, civil, estimates, are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 184000000 to NOK 180000000 664 Seafarer pension scheme 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 47000000 to NOK 44000000 666 Retirement contract [[AFP]] Grants, estimates, are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 220000000 to NOK 2 210000000 701 E-health, health records, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 1350000 from NOK 250 933 000 to NOK 237 433 000 710 Vaccines, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 45 900 000 from NOK 270 107 000 to NOK 316 007 000 732 Regional health establishments 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 19 587 000 to NOK 18 587 000 70 Specific grants, may be carried over, may be used under headings 72, 73, 74 and 75, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 700 607 000 to NOK 685 607 000 72 Basic appropriations Health south-east RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 652 800000 from NOK 51 985 750000 to NOK 51 332 950000 73 Basic appropriations Health West RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 230 100000 from NOK 18 327 061 000 to NOK 18 096 961000 74 Basic appropriations Health Middle Norway RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 174 100000 from NOK 13 865 726 000 to NOK 13 691 626 000 75 Basic appropriations Health North RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 155 800000 from NOK 12 403 447 000 to NOK 12 247 647 000 77 Laboratory and radiological studies, estimates, are reduced by: 70000000 from NOK 3 129 988 000 to NOK 3 059 988 000 80 VAT compensation, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 28 200000 from NOK 6 414 149 000 to NOK 6 385 949 000 86 Operating credits shall be increased by: 500,000 from NOK 157000000 to NOK 657000000 733 Habilitation and rehabilitation services 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 79, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 14 749 000 to NOK 16 749 000 72 Purchases of training, etc. , may be transmitted, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 2812000 to NOK 1812000 79 Other grants, may be used under item 21, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 6 162000 to NOK 7 162000 740 Directorate for Health Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,700,000 from NOK 1 172 992,000 to NOK 1 169 292 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 12,000,000 from NOK 30 576 000 to NOK 18 576 000 745 Public health institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 39 600 000 from NOK 1059 233 000 to NOK 1019 633 000 746 National Agency for Medicinal Products Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 10,190,000 from NOK 296 510000 to NOK 286 320 000 761 Nursing services 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 79, increased by: 14 500000 from NOK 133,796 000 to NOK 148,296 000 63 Investment grants may be transferred, increased by: 59 300000 from NOK 4038 857,000 to NOK 4098 157 000 64 Compensation for interest and deductions shall be increased by: 53 300000 from NOK 834 500000 to NOK 887 800000 65 Trials of state funding of care services, estimates, are increased by: 140,000,000 from NOK 1274 183 000 to NOK 1414 183 000 75 Other competence measures are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 11 314 000 to NOK 10 814 000 762 Primary Health Service 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 136 527 000 to NOK 129 527 000 61 Prison health services are increased by: 2,300,000 from NOK 172 418 000 to NOK 174 718 000 63 General medical services are increased by: 29,000,000 from NOK 94,672 000 to NOK 123,672 000 64 Escalation plan habilitation and rehabilitation is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 91 736 000 to NOK 89 736 000 765 Psychiatric and drug services 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 72, increased by: 43,000,000 from NOK 103 867 000 to NOK 146 867 000 72 Voluntary work, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under entry 21, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 348 632 000 to NOK 345 632 000 780 Research 50 Norwegian Research Council, etc. , increased by: 1000000 from NOK 330 624 000 to NOK 331 624 000 783 Personnel 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 79, increased by: 12 800000 from NOK 39 783 000 to NOK 52 583 000 800 Ministry of Children and Gender Equality 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 145000 from NOK 9 918 000 to NOK 10 063 000 844 Cash support 70 Grants, estimates, are increased by: 37 820,000 from NOK 1752 180000 to NOK 1790000 845 Child-rescue 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 140,000,000 from NOK 15 070 000 to NOK 14 930000 860 Consumer Council 51 Market portals, reduced by 900000 from NOK 26 537 000 to NOK 25 637 000 867 Secretariat of the Market Council and Consumer Dispute Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 300000 from NOK 13 520000 to NOK 13 820000 868 Consumer supervision Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 300000 from NOK 27 171000 to NOK 26 871000 871 Equality and non-discrimination 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under heading 70, increased by: 400000 from NOK 11 592 000 to NOK 11 992 000 900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 11 200000 from NOK 52 475000 to NOK 41 275 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Safe management of Norwegian nuclear waste and installations, can be transferred, reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 58000000 to NOK 53000000 31 Environmental measures Svea and Lunckeberg may be transferred, increased by: 26,000,000 from NOK 141000000 to NOK 167000000 71 Environmental action Raufoss is increased by: 4500000 from NOK 620000 to NOK 10 700 000 75 Grants to specific projects may be transferred, increased by: 2,400,000 from NOK 8 800000 to NOK 11 200000 79 Grants to Mechatronics Innovation Lab, awarded by [[NY]] 41,000,000 83 Grants to the Centre for the Marine and Arctic Issues, awarded by [[NY]] 10000000 902 Adjusters Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,400,000 from NOK 123,185000 to NOK 125,585000 904 The Brønn Island Registers This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Transferability of the ALTIN solution may be increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 274 418 000 to NOK 324 418 000 906 Directorate for Mineral Management with the Bergmeister for Svalbard 31 Environmental measures The loop, can be transmitted, reduced by: 31 500000 from NOK 36 700000 to NOK 520000 907 Norwegian Nuclear Decommissioning 1 Operating costs, granted by: [[NY]] 5000000 909 Measures for employment of seafarers 73 Allowances for employment of seafarers, estimates, are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 230000000 to NOK 2025000000 910 Directorate for Maritime Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23,000,000 from NOK 386 240 000 to NOK 409 240 000 912 General Secretariat for Complaints Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 900000 from NOK 18 195 000 to NOK 19 095 000 917 Directorate for Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7 520,000 from NOK 401 411000 to NOK 408 931000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 67 664 000 to NOK 77 664 000 919 Miscellaneous fishing purposes 60 Grants to municipalities and counties, granted by [[NY]] 74 900 000 72 Grants for fishermen’s security training, granted by: [[NY]] 200000 76 Grants for fisheries research may be transferred, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 22 056 000 to NOK 12 056 000 920 Norwegian Research Council 51 Grants for nuclear research are reduced by: 102 500000 from NOK 102 500000 to NOK 0 922 Space activities 70 Quota of European Space Agency [[ESA]] 3,900,000 from NOK 217,310,000 to NOK 221,210 000 71 International space activities are increased by: 750000 from NOK 426 770000 to NOK 434 270 000 923 Marine Research Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 7,480,000 from NOK 613 693 000 to NOK 606 213 000 924 International cooperation and development programmes 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 13 300000 from NOK 29 520000 to NOK 16 220 000 926 Marine Research Institute, research vessel Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7000000 from NOK 157 771,000 to NOK 164 771000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 44 900 000 from NOK 55000000 to NOK 99 900 000 928 Other marine research and development services 50 Grants to the Veterinary Institute shall be reduced by: 240 000 from NOK 57 787 000 to NOK 57 547 000 929 Institute of Energy Engineering 22 Securing of nuclear installations, granted by: [[NY]] 10000000 51 Grants for nuclear research are granted by: [[NY]] 178,000,000 940 Internationalisation measures 73 Aid for exports of capital goods shall be increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 81000000 to NOK 84000000 950 Management of state ownership 70 Responsible Loans, Andøya Space Center, are granted by: [[NY]] 20,000,000 1100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance – ordinary administrative bodies, may be transferred, can be used under heading 50, increased by: 16 692,000 from NOK 2 720 000 to NOK 19 412000 1115 Food Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 1323 239 000 to NOK 1338 239 000 1136 Knowledge development, etc. 50 Knowledge development, dissemination and preparedness, the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, is reduced by: 1 525000 from NOK 235 465 000 to NOK 233 940000 1137 Research and innovation 50 Research activity, the Norwegian Research Council, is reduced by: 277,000 from NOK 242 306 000 to NOK 242 029 000 51 Basic appropriations, etc., the Norwegian Research Council, are reduced by: 1 183,000 from NOK 187 452 000 to NOK 186 269 000 1149 Value-added and development measures in agriculture 71 Contributions to forestry value added measures may be transferred, reduced by: 23,000,000 from NOK 92 300000 to NOK 69 300000 1300 Ministry of Transport Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,036,000 from NOK 189 999 000 to NOK 192 035 000 74 Grants to the Rescue Company shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 93 500000 to NOK 103 500000 1301 Research and development, etc. 21 Environmental, road safety, etc. , is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 15 968 000 to NOK 13 968 000 50 Transport research, may be transferred, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 167 014000 to NOK 165 014000 1320 State Road Service 23 Operation and maintenance services of highways, roads, road and vehicle traffic control services, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under entry 29, entry 30, entry 31 and entry 72 shall be increased by: 28 500000 from NOK 11 759 844 000 to NOK 11 788 344 000 61 Interest compensation for transport measures in the counties is increased by: 90 800000 from NOK 181,700000 to NOK 272,500000 1330 Specific transport measures 72 Free public transport services for children and young people [[NY]] 250,000,000 73 National grant scheme for the purchase of electric bicycles is granted by: [[NY]] 85,000,000 1352 Railway Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1500000 from NOK 457 458 000 to NOK 458 958 000 1357 Mantena AS 71 Capital injection, may be carried over, granted by: [[NY]] 200000000 1370 Postal services 70 Purchases of postal and banking services are increased by: 342,000,000 from NOK 261,700000 to NOK 603,700000 1400 Ministry of Climate and Environment 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 17 210 000 from NOK 84 509 000 to NOK 67 299 000 63 Grant scheme for the establishment of common barbecues, granted by: [[NY]] 5000000 73 Grant scheme for measures to combat marine pollution and microplastics, granted by: [[NY]] 110,000,000 76 Support for national and international environmental measures may be transferred, reduced by: 13,000,000 from NOK 115 230000 to NOK 102 230000 1411 Species Databases 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under heading 70, increased by: 23 317,000 from NOK 675000 to NOK 29 592,000 50 Species and habitat types, may be transmitted, can be used under headings 21 and 70, reduced by: 16 861,000 from NOK 16 861000 to NOK 0 70 Subsidies to species and habitat types may be transferred, may be used under item 21, increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 11 441000 to NOK 19 441000 1412 Meteorology purposes 70 International cooperation projects are reduced by: 14 873 000 from NOK 166 297 000 to NOK 151 424 000 1420 Directorate for the Environment 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 600 000 from NOK 257 570000 to NOK 256 970000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. State action on the aquatic environment is increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 279 369 000 to NOK 283 369 000 23 Mission and fee-related activities may be transferred, increased by: 1,820,000 from NOK 132 462 000 to NOK 134 282 000 34 State acquisitions, national parks, may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 19 200000 61 Contributions to climate action and adaptation may be transferred, reduced by: 74,000,000 from NOK 153 920000 to NOK 79 920000 69 Cleaning measures, may be carried over, can be used under items 39 and 79, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 96 962 000 to NOK 86 962 000 70 Subsidies for aquatic environmental measures may be transferred, increased by: 48 200000 from NOK 42 755000 to NOK 90 955000 76 Reimbursement schemes, estimates, are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 119 462 000 to NOK 129 462 000 1428 Energy conversion, energy and climate technologies 50 Transfer to the Climate and Energy Fund shall be increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 2 720000000 to NOK 2733000000 1429 Riksantikvaren 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 2 100000 from NOK 36,727,000 to NOK 38,827,000 60 Cultural memory work in municipalities is reduced by: 2 100000 from NOK 15 716 000 to NOK 13 616 000 1473 Kings Bay AS 70 Grants shall be increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 21 642 000 to NOK 46 642 000 1482 International climate and development measures 74 Sea bets, by [[NY]] 500,000 1600 Ministry of Finance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 372,865000 to NOK 370,865000 1605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 37,000,000 from NOK 457 344 000 to NOK 494 344 000 1610 Customs duties Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 31 100000 from NOK 1487 947 000 to NOK 1519 047 000 1618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 80 100000 from NOK 5 762 275 000 to NOK 5 842 375 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 8,900,000 from NOK 195 300000 to NOK 204 200000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Major IT projects may be transferred, reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 576 500000 to NOK 536 500000 1620 Statistical Central Bureau Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 564 874 000 to NOK 569 874 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 14 600 000 to NOK 19 600 000 1632 Compensation for VAT 72 Grants to private and non-profit institutions serving households, estimates, are reduced by: 60,000,000 from NOK 2160000000 to NOK 2 10000000 1651 Central government debt, repayments and redemptions 98 Deductions on domestic government debt, estimate appropriations, by [[NY]] 20,000,000 1700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 910000 from NOK 801 119 000 to NOK 810 269 000 71 Transfers to others may be transferred, reduced by: 525000 from NOK 65 234 000 to NOK 64 709 000 78 Norway’s grant to NATO and international operating budgets may be transferred, reduced by: 62 003 000 from NOK 305 523,000 to NOK 243 520000 1720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3353,000 from NOK 9 609 482,000 to NOK 9 612 835000 1723 National safety authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 268 947 000 to NOK 278 947 000 1731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 70 330000 from NOK 5 066 104 000 to NOK 5 136 434 000 1732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 36,417,000 from NOK 4 114 269 000 to NOK 4077 852 000 1733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 153,765000 from NOK 4 936 621 000 to NOK 5 090 386 000 1734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 79 604,000 from NOK 1241,819,000 to NOK 1321,423,000 1735 Intelligence 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 25 369 000 from NOK 1905 510000 to NOK 1930 879 000 1760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1760, entry 45, increased by 45,535,000 from NOK 1587 607 000 to NOK 1633 142 000 44 Joint funded investments, nationally financed shares, may be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 96 331000 to NOK 81 331000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be carried over, may be used under cover. 1761, entry 45 is increased by 28 621,000 from NOK 5 914 782,000 to NOK 5 943 403 000 48 Jointly financed investments, jointly financed, may be transferred, reduced by: 3,816,000 from NOK 71 500000 to NOK 67 684000 1790 Coast Guard Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 87 625000 from NOK 1027 838 000 to NOK 940 213 000 1791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 96/824,000 from NOK 854 745000 to NOK 951 569 000 1792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 757,000 from NOK 1009 909 000 to NOK 1 010 666 000 1811 Statoil ASA 96 Shares are reduced by: 146,000,000 from NOK 190000000 to NOK 1754000000 1840 CO 2 management 70 Administration, Gassnova SF, may be transferred, may be used under items 21 and 72, increased by: 11,000,000 from NOK 106 127 000 to NOK 117 127 000 72 Full scale CO 2 handling, can be transferred, can be used under items 21 and 70, increased by: 109,000,000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 129000000 2309 Random expense Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 160,000,000 from NOK 4 4 498 022 000 to NOK 4 338 022 000 2410 State Loan Fund for Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 45, increased by: 3,049,000 from NOK 391 399 000 to NOK 394 448 000 50 Appropriations for education grants, estimates, are increased by: 125,015,000 from NOK 6 929 577 000 to NOK 7 054 592 000 70 Training grants, estimates, are increased by: 151 489 000 from NOK 2806 225 000 to NOK 2 957 714 000 71 Other scholarships, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 54 565 000 from NOK 775 837 000 to NOK 721 272 000 72 Interest subsidies, estimates, are increased by: 192,825,000 from NOK 1011 612000 to NOK 1 204 437 000 73 Depreciation, estimate allocation, is reduced by: 7 524 000 from NOK 610 420000 to NOK 602 896 000 74 Loan losses are reduced by: 9 350 000 from NOK 385 550000 to NOK 376 200000 90 Increases in loans and interest payable, estimates are reduced by: 31 194,000 from NOK 27 218,070000 to NOK 27,186,876,000 2412 The Bank of Homes 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 11 263 000 to NOK 10 763 000 2421 Innovation Norway 51 Loss reserves, seed reserves and co-investment funds are increased by: 7 425000 from NOK 37 200000 to NOK 44 625000 53 Risk relief, seed and co-investment funds are increased by: 3,700,000 from NOK 18 800000 to NOK 22 500000 70 Basic costs are reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 167 767 000 to NOK 166 267 000 74 Travel life, profiling and competence may be transferred, increased by: 11 500000 from NOK 535000 to NOK 546 500000 76 Environmental technologies, can be transmitted, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 565 500000 to NOK 555 500000 80 Activities of Svalbard, financed by: [[NY]] 640000 95 Equity, seed and co-investment funds are increased by: 21 200000 from NOK 106 300000 to NOK 127 500000 2445 State-owned buildings 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -4 860 000 000 2 Operating expenditure 2 115 069 000 3 Depreciation 1123 814 000 4 Interest on the capital of the country 86 000 000 5 For investment purposes 1,279 976 000 6 To the Regulatory Fund -150 000 000 Syd -405 141,000 30 Building design, may be transferred, increased by: 143,000,000 from NOK 206 401,000 to NOK 349 401000 31 The start of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, reduced by: 65 000 000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 35000000 32 Design and launch of currant projects may be transferred, increased by: 150000000 from NOK 250000000 to NOK 40000000 2470 General government pension fund 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -664 825 000, statement of estimates 2 Operating expenditure 434 922 000, statement of estimates 3 Depreciation 123 760,000 4 Interest on national capital 1,249 000 5 For investment purposes 75 000 000 6 For regulatory fund 11 691 000 Syd -18 203 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 40 741000 to NOK 90 741000 2530 Parental carcass 70 Birth culls, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 871,000,000 from NOK 20 061000000 to NOK 19 190000000 71 Birth and adoption lump sum estimates are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 625000 to NOK 615000 72 Parental leave allowance, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 490000 to NOK 475000 73 In the event of adoption, the estimates are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 58000000 to NOK 61000000 2541 Day money 70 Appropriations for the day shall be reduced by: 1 738,000,000 from NOK 13 348 000 to NOK 11 610 000 2542 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. 70 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. , estimates are increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 7950000000 to NOK 840000 2620 Social benefits to a lonely mother or father 70 Transitional assistance, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 240,000,000 from NOK 2170000000 to NOK 1930000000 73 Supplementary and school-related social benefits, estimates are increased by: 725000 from NOK 91 275 000 to NOK 92000000 76 Contribution advance shall be reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 745000000 to NOK 725000 2650 Sykepenger 70 Sickness allowance for employees, etc. , estimates are reduced by: 1,250,000,000 from NOK 37 490 000 to NOK 36 290 000 71 Sickness benefits for self-employed persons, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 1490000000 to NOK 1450000000 72 Nursing, training, n.e.c. , estimates are reduced by: 276,000,000 from NOK 1271000000 to NOK 995000000 75 Health care holiday pay, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 60,000,000 from NOK 270000000 to NOK 2 010000000 2651 Clearance of duties 70 Clearance of work, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 1 002,000,000 from NOK 34 812000000 to NOK 33 810000000 71 Supplementary aid, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 27 260 000 from NOK 267 260000 to NOK 240000000 72 Medical statements shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 415000000 to NOK 425000 2655 Disability 70 Misappropriation, allocation of estimates, increased by: 870,000,000 from NOK 86 33000000 to NOK 87 200000000 75 Men’s compensation in the event of occupational injury, estimates are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 83000000 to NOK 84000000 2661 Basic and auxiliary aid, aids, etc. 70 Basic aid, estimates, is increased by: 9 130 000 from NOK 1900 870000 to NOK 1910000000 71 Auxiliary services, estimate appropriations, increased by 10,625,000 from NOK 1549 375000 to NOK 1560000000 73 Utilities, etc. in the course of work and training, shall be reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 128000000 to NOK 126000000 74 Supplements to cars are reduced by: 69,875,000 from NOK 809 875000 to NOK 740000 75 Improvements in functionality, assistive devices, are increased by: 158 820,000 from NOK 3211 180000 to NOK 3370000000 76 Improvement of functionality, assistive devices such as services, is reduced by: 4,600,000 from NOK 309 600 000 to NOK 305000000 77 Orthopaedic aids shall be increased by: 66 975,000 from NOK 1533 025 000 to NOK 1 600 000 78 Hearing aids, reduced by: 1 975 000 from NOK 711 975000 to NOK 71000000 2670 Age 70 Basic pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 590,000 from NOK 73 430000 to NOK 72 840000 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 1110,000,000 from NOK 142 030000000 to NOK 140 920000 72 Pensions on income, estimates, are reduced by: 120,000,000 from NOK 1520000000 to NOK 140000 000 73 Special supplements, pension supplements etc. , estimates are increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 6080000000 to NOK 6 180000000 2680 Survivors 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 820000 to NOK 835000 72 Special supplement, estimated appropriation, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 81000000 to NOK 86000000 75 Support for child-care, estimates, is increased by: 100000 from NOK 490000 to NOK 5000000 2686 gravitational assistance 70 gravitational allowances, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 110000 from NOK 190 110000 to NOK 189000000 2711 Specialist health services, etc. 70 Specialist assistance, reduced by: 27 600 000 from NOK 2 007 600 000 to NOK 1 980 000 71 Psychological assistance, reduced by: 560000 from NOK 305 600 000 to NOK 300000 000 72 Dental treatment, reduced by: 1 600 000 from NOK 2 411 600 000 to NOK 2 410 000 76 Private laboratories and X-ray institutes shall be reduced by: 8,200,000 from NOK 998 200000 to NOK 990000000 2751 Medicinal products n.e.c. 70 Medicinal products, reduced by 215 200000 from NOK 10 162 200000 to NOK 9 947 000 71 Medical statements shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 6000000 to NOK 7000000 72 Medical consumables are reduced by: 38 300000 from NOK 2 018 300000 to NOK 1980000000 2752 Reimbursement of self-payment 70 Self-proprietary share cap 1 is increased by: 54 300000 from NOK 5098 200000 to NOK 5 152 500000 71 Self-proprietary cap 2, reduced by: 99 500000 from NOK 1089 500000 to NOK 990000000 2755 Health services in municipalities etc. 62 Remuneration scheme physiotherapists, may be used under heading 71, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 380000000 to NOK 390000000 70 General medical care is reduced by: 88 500000 from NOK 4 996000000 to NOK 4 907 500000 71 Physiotherapy, may be used under heading 62, reduced by: 81 800000 from NOK 161 800000 to NOK 1080000000 72 midwifery, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 62000000 to NOK 60000000 73 Chiropractor therapy is increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 157000000 to NOK 165000000 75 Logopedic and orthopaedic treatments are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 162000000 to NOK 161000000 2756 Other health services 70 Health services in other EEA countries are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 23000000 to NOK 22000000 71 Health services abroad etc. , is reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 485000000 to NOK 460000 72 Health services to non-residents, etc. , increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 215000000 to NOK 230000000 2790 Other health measures 70 Contributions, reduced by 12 800000 from NOK 247 800000 to NOK 235000000 3041 Size Add User-ID Succeeded Sales revenue is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 8 300000 to NOK 9 300000 3225 Basic training measures 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 11 552,000 from NOK 55 119 000 to NOK 43 567 000 3287 Research institutes and other activities 96 Share capital – CESSDA AS, granted by [[NY]] 50000 3291 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Integration grants for transfer refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 22 975 000 from NOK 197,200000 to NOK 220,175000 2 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 62 092,000 from NOK 113 874 000 to NOK 51 782 000 3292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Norwegian receipt training, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 29 543,000 from NOK 50 505000 to NOK 20 962000 3410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Legal fee, reduced by: 3,800,000 from NOK 385 310000 to NOK 381 510000 3440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat 6 Fee — Foreign affairs, reduced by: 3,392,000 from NOK 268 284 000 to NOK 264 892 000 3445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office 2 Reimbursements, granted by [[NY]] 2000000 3456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Subscription income is reduced by: 120000 from NOK 338 696 000 to NOK 337 496 000 2 Reimbursements of operating costs shall be reduced by: 9 250000 from NOK 42 204 000 to NOK 32 954000 3469 Vertegration scheme Add User-ID Succeeded Vergemåls/representative scheme, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 5,430,000 from NOK 9 360 000 to NOK 330000 3490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Return of asylum seekers with a refusal and return for refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 15 440,000 from NOK 115 468 000 to NOK 100 028 000 3 Travel expenses for refugees to and from abroad, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 1,705,000 from NOK 12 445000 to NOK 14 150000 4 Asylum recipients, ODA-approved expenditure, are reduced by: 221 461,000 from NOK 706 714 000 to NOK 485 253 000 3587 Directorate for Building Quality 4 Fees shall be reduced by: 570000 from NOK 50,070000 to NOK 44,370000 3605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Administrative allowances shall be reduced by: 6,310,000 from NOK 14 830000 to NOK 8 520000 6 Fee income for the determination of contributions shall be reduced by: 2,020,000 from NOK 27 720 000 to NOK 25 700 000 3614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Fee income, loans, is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 22000000 to NOK 23000000 90 Repayment of loans shall be reduced by: 1,300,000 from NOK 13 600000000 to NOK 12 300000 000 3616 Group life insurance services Add User-ID Succeeded Premium income is reduced by: 12,000,000 from NOK 118000000 to NOK 106000000 3635 Wages and salaries, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursement of State activities, etc. , is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 12000000 85 Invitation to the payment of outstanding wages and salaries is reduced by: 100000 from NOK 400000 to NOK 300000 3740 Directorate for Health 4 Fee revenue shall be reduced by: 4,700,000 from NOK 42 635000 to NOK 37 935000 5 Health services to non-residents, etc. , is reduced by: 7,373,000 from NOK 69 373 000 to NOK 62 000 000 3746 National Agency for Medicinal Products 4 Registration fee shall be reduced by: 9 520,000 from NOK 90 059 000 to NOK 80 539 000 5 Reimbursement fee shall be reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 3087 000 to NOK 587 000 3855 State administration of child protection 60 Local features are reduced by: 74,000,000 from NOK 1472 039 000 to NOK 1398 039 000 3856 Childcare centre for lone minor asylum seekers 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 76 964 000 from NOK 138 536 000 to NOK 61 572 000 3871 Equality and non-discrimination 1 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 1 400000 3902 Adjusters Add User-ID Succeeded Fee revenue shall be reduced by: 11 500000 from NOK 38 924 000 to NOK 27 424 000 3 Revenue from the sale of services is increased by: 500000 from NOK 16 667 000 to NOK 22 167 000 86 Infringement fee, granted by [[NY]] 60000 3910 Directorate for Maritime Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Charges for ships and mobile appliances in NOR shall be increased by: 35,000,000 from NOK 182 729 000 to NOK 217 729 000 3950 Management of state ownership 87 Deposit guarantee scheme, Export finance ASA, granted by [[NY]] 21 700 000 90 Discounts on loans, Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkompani AS, are granted by [[NY]] 2,700,000 4100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 40 Sale of property, by: [[NY]] 16 692,000 4136 Knowledge development, etc. 30 Husleie, Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, is reduced by: 2,985,000 from NOK 20 643 000 to NOK 17 658 000 4300 Ministry of Transport 96 Shares, by [[NY]] 300000 4322 Svinesund compound AS 90 Deductions from loans shall be increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 75000000 to NOK 90000000 4411 Species Databases 2 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 14,456,000 4420 Directorate for the Environment 4 Fees, the pollution area, shall be increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 38 132 000 to NOK 39 532 000 7 Fees, allowances system, are increased by: 450,000 from NOK 8 077 000 to NOK 8 527 000 4429 Riksantikvaren 2 Reimbursements and miscellaneous income are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 4 506 000 to NOK 2 506 000 9 International missions are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 1277 000 to NOK 3277 000 4605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Economic services are increased by: 37,000,000 from NOK 50 600 000 to NOK 87 600 000 4610 Customs duties 2 Other income is increased by: 1 100000 from NOK 897 000 to NOK 1997 000 4618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursed call and call charges shall be increased by: 18,000,000 from NOK 59000000 to NOK 77000000 7 Fee for binding prior opinions shall be increased by: 1 100000 from NOK 210000 to NOK 350000 89 Infringement fee shall be reduced by: 9000000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 4000000 4720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 94 253 000 from NOK 224 107 000 to NOK 318 360 000 4732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 640000 from NOK 54 174 000 to NOK 47 774 000 4733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 200000 from NOK 107 660000 to NOK 107 860000 4760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 22,293,000 from NOK 30 174 000 to NOK 52 467 000 45 Larger equipment acquisition and maintenance, revenue, granted by [[NY]] 54,792,000 4791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 96/824,000 from NOK 766,460,000 to NOK 863,284000 4792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 8,429 000 from NOK 39 312 000 to NOK 30 883 000 4811 Statoil ASA 96 Dividend shares are reduced by: 146,000,000 from NOK 190000000 to NOK 1754000000 5309 Random income 29 Miscellaneous, incremented by 200000000 from NOK 150000000 to NOK 350000000 5310 State Loan Fund for Education 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 810000 from NOK 23 600 000 to NOK 24 410000 29 Appointment fee shall be reduced by: 1,869,000 from NOK 18 512000 to NOK 16 643 000 89 Pure fees shall be reduced by: 1 208 000 from NOK 104,672 000 to NOK 103,464 000 90 Reduced loans and interest payable are increased by: 64 874 000 from NOK 10 172 117 000 to NOK 10 236 991000 93 Conversion of training loans into scholarships shall be increased by: 295 276 000 from NOK 6 409 778 000 to NOK 6 705 054 000 5325 Innovation Norway 50 Return from a nationwide innovation scheme is increased by: 20,700,000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 40 700 000 85 The repayment of depreciated loans from seed capital funds shall be granted by: [[NY]] 9 400000 91 Returned capital, seed funds, is reduced by: 900000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 9 100000 5341 Deductions on outstanding receivables 98 Deductions on own-account government bonds, granted by: [[NY]] 20,000,000 5351 Transfer from Norway’s Bank 85 Transfer is reduced by: 167 400000 from NOK 14 50000000 to NOK 14 332 600 000 5440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue 153 200000000 2 Operating expenditure -28 300000000 3 Expenses of exploration and field development -2 100000000 4 Depreciation -26 000 000 000 5 Interest on the capital of the country -3 300 000 000 Syd 93 50,000,000 30 Depreciation is increased by: 3,800,000 from NOK 22 200000000 to NOK 26000000 5445 State-owned buildings 39 Provisions for investment purposes are increased by: 150000000 from NOK 129,976 000 to NOK 1279,976 000 5460 Export Credit Guarantee Institute 73 Recovery from the SUS/Baltic system shall be granted by: [[NY]] 32 500000 5470 General government pension fund 30 Provisions for investment purposes are increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 25000000 to NOK 75000000 5491 Depreciation of the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 30 Depreciation is increased by: 19 309,000 from NOK 1,232 865000 to NOK 1252 174 000 5502 Financial taxes 72 Financial taxes, by [[NY]] 832 500000 5521 Value added tax 70 VAT is increased by: 400,000 from NOK 291 50000000 to NOK 291 900000000 5526 Charge on alcohol 70 Charges on alcohol are reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 13 80000000 to NOK 13 793000000 5536 Fee on motor vehicles, etc. 71 One-off fee shall be increased by: 5000000 from NOK 15 935000 to NOK 15 940000 5560 Environmental taxes on plastics 71 Environmental taxes on plastics, granted by [[NY]] 750 000 000 5572 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Health and Welfare 74 Supervisory fee, reduced by: 3770 000 from NOK 3770 000 to NOK 0 5576 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food 72 Hunting and felling fees shall be increased by: 9 763,000 from NOK 90 915000 to NOK 100 678 000 5607 Interest of the housing loan scheme in the State pension fund 80 Interest is increased by: 295,000,000 from NOK 825000 to NOK 1120000000 5611 NSB AS shares 85 Dividends are increased by: 165 000 from NOK 150000000 to NOK 315000000 5612 Interest from the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kullkompani AS 80 Interests granted by: [[NY]] 3,200,000 5617 Interest of the State Loan Fund for Education 80 Interest is increased by: 727 406,000 from NOK 3880 231 000 to NOK 4 607 637 000 5622 Shares in Avinor AS 85 Dividends are increased by: 17 700 000 from NOK 232000000 to NOK 249 700 000 5624 Interest of the Svinesund compound AS 80 Interest is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 4000000 to NOK 3000000 5625 Interest and dividends from Innovation Norway 81 The interest margin, the innovation loan scheme, is increased by: 4,900,000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 24 900 000 85 Dividends, the Low Risk Loan Facility, are increased by: 121,000,000 from NOK 125000000 to NOK 246000000 88 Return of dividends from seed capital funds granted by: [[NY]] 13 100000 5631 Shares in AS Vinmonopolet 85 The surplus share of the country is reduced by: 7 400000 from NOK 70 900 000 to NOK 63 500000 5652 Landskog SF - interest and dividends 80 Interest is reduced by: 600 000 from NOK 630000 to NOK 30 000 85 Dividends are increased by: 34,000,000 from NOK 26000000 to NOK 60000000 5656 Shares in companies under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 85 Dividends are increased by: 3,083,500,000 from NOK 16 962 219 000 to NOK 20 045 719 000 5680 Statnett SF 85 Dividends are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 336000000 to NOK 326000000 5701 Miscellaneous income 71 Reimbursement in the event of occupational injury shall be reduced by: 126 900 000 from NOK 1076 827 000 to NOK 949 927 000 73 Reimbursement by contributors shall be increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 225000000 to NOK 240000000 86 Recovery of errors, increased by: 582,000,000 from NOK 718000000 to NOK 130000000000 87 Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 18,000,000 from NOK 34 600 000 to NOK 16 600 000 88 Assistive Technology Centres, etc. , increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 61000000 to NOK 65000000 5705 Reimbursement of daily allowances 70 Reimbursement of daily allowances, State guarantee in the event of bankruptcy, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 23000000 to NOK 28000000 71 Reimbursement of daily allowances for frontier workers, etc. resided in Norway, reduced by 200000 from NOK 800000 to NOK 600000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e33389	Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a public holiday on 5 June to mark the World Environment Day.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to limit the increased construction loan guarantee scheme to the construction of a zero-emission vessel.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e33409	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 62 and 64, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to withdraw the decision to allocate increased production capacity in 2018.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal from the State budget for 2019 which contributes to the financing of municipal expenditure in the payment of care allowances for parents with seriously ill children over 18 years of age.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e33432	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 56, 59 and 60, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2018 shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e49188	Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government is asked to instruct State Building so that the design of the Tromsø museum/North Region Museum is carried out as an open international architectural contest.’ Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The decision of the Storting of 12 December 2017 on the CO 2 tax on mineral products is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 1 is replaced by the following: As from 1 July 2018 it shall be subject to Law No 19 May 1933. 11 on excise duties, CO 2 tax is paid to the central government on the importation and domestic production of the following mineral products by the following amounts: a. Mineral oil DKK 1,46 per litre. [[(general rate):]] Mineral oil – for domestic allowances: DKK 1,41 per litre, – to other domestic aviation and non-commercial private flights: DKK 1,41 per litre, – for fishing and fishing in close waters: DKK 0,32 per litre, a. petrol: DKK 1.28 per litre; b. natural gas: DKK 1,10 per Sm3, LPG: NOK 1,65 per kg.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e49245	There is a vote on proposal No. 58, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to secure funding for a national maritime food line added to Vardø secondary school in the context of the State budget for 2019.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e49262	There is a vote on proposal No. 57, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose, in the context of the 2019 State Budget, the stepping up of grants to the International Sami Film Institute to enable the Institute to finance Sami films and series, as announced in the film release (Report. St. 30 [[2015-2016]] The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e49280	President! I voted wrong. I had to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e49285	The result is that 63 voted against and 37 voted in favour of the proposal by the Socialist Left – and therefore the proposal is not accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 52, 53 and 55, from the Greens/Reds/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of the possibilities for introducing purchase benefits for car tyres that provide significantly lower or no emissions of microplastics in the context of the 2019 government budget.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a ban on the refilling of rubber cullet on artificial grass tracks from 2020.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State budget for 2019 to present changes in the biofuel policy that ensure that Norwegian biofuel policy does not contribute to the destruction of rainforest or increased food prices on the world market.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e49314	There is a vote on proposal No. 54 by the Greens/Reds/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2018 is amended as follows: the tax exemption for biofuels is liquidated from 1 July 2018 for all biofuels containing palm oil.’; The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e49331	There is a vote on proposal No. 50, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for a future split solution for helicopters, with at least nine helicopters dedicated to the Army in the north and at least nine helicopters dedicated to the special forces. The Government is asked to assess the purchase of used helicopters in order to ensure adequate support for the Army or the Special Forces.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e49349	There is a vote on proposal No. 51, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to ensure that at least 90 pst. by residents of a police district have no more than 45 minutes of travel to the nearest passport office. There must be a higher number of points of issue than proposed by the Directorate of Police.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e49366	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 46, 47 and 49, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2018 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 20 Office of the Prime Minister Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 118 465 000 to NOK 117 465 000 21 Government Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 173 061 000 to NOK 178 061 000 41 Size Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 6000000 from NOK 961,300000 to NOK 955 300000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, granted by: [[NY]] 2000000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 260,000,000 from NOK 593 400000 to NOK 853 400000 70 Grants to the batches shall be increased by: 6000000 from NOK 186000000 to NOK 192000000 44 Size control committee for intelligence, surveillance and security services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 18 800000 to NOK 17 800000 51 National audit Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 526 600 000 to NOK 521 600 000 61 Supreme Court Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 109 750000 to NOK 111 150000 100 Ministry of Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 28 600 000 from NOK 2 253 292,000 to NOK 2 224 692 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 12 931000 to NOK 17 931000 103 Joint Governmental Appropriations for representation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 48 317 000 to NOK 43 317 000 116 Participation in international organisations 70 Grants to international organisations shall be reduced by: 160,000,000 from NOK 1499 500000 to NOK 1339 500000 117 The EEA Financial Mechanisms 77 The EEA Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 may be transferred, reduced by: 197,000,000 from NOK 787,554 000 to NOK 590,554 000 78 The Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 may be transferred, reduced by: 165 000 from NOK 659 155 000 to NOK 494 155 000 118 North-area actions, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under items 70 and 71, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 38 204 000 to NOK 43 204 000 140 Administration of development aid by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 1576 140 000 to NOK 1561 140 000 150 Aid to Africa 78 Regional allocation for Africa may be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 2728 640000 to NOK 2713 640000 151 Aid to Asia 72 Assistance to Afghanistan may be transferred, increased by: 6000000 from NOK 565000000 to NOK 571000000 78 Appropriations for Asia may be carried over, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 221 500000 to NOK 211 500000 152 Assistance to the Middle East and North Africa 78 Regional allocation for the Middle East and North Africa may be transferred, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 606000000 to NOK 599000000 162 Transitional aid/vulnerable countries and regions 70 Transitional aid/vulnerable countries and regions may be transferred, increased by: 7000000 from NOK 343000000 to NOK 350000000 163 Emergency aid, humanitarian aid and human rights 70 Emergency aid and humanitarian aid may be transferred, increased by: 166 202,000 from NOK 4 511000000 to NOK 4 677 202 000 72 Human rights, can be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 360000000 to NOK 370000 000 165 Research, empowerment and evaluation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 89 816 000 to NOK 87 816 000 71 Professional cooperation, may be transferred, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 428 658 000 to NOK 431 658 000 166 Climate, environment and renewable energy 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 65 000 000 70 Miscellaneous grants, may be transferred, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 550000 to NOK 0 72 Climate and environment, can be transmitted, increased by: 133,000,000 from NOK 917 200000 to NOK 1050 200000 167 Refugee measures in Norway, approved as development aid [[ODA]] Special operating costs are reduced by: 397 802,000 from NOK 1425 477 000 to NOK 1027 675000 168 Women's rights and equality 70 Women's rights and equality may be transferred, increased by: 7 600 000 from NOK 346 700000 to NOK 354 300000 169 Global health and education 70 Global health, can be transmitted, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 3,218,916,000 to NOK 3,233,916,000 73 Education, may be transferred, reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 1904 010 000 to NOK 1884 010 000 170 United Nations organisations, etc. 76 United Nations and global challenges, can be transmitted, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 212 300000 to NOK 222 300000 81 Food security and agricultural climate change, can be transmitted, increased by: 14 500000 from NOK 275000000 to NOK 289 500000 83 World Health Organisation [[WHO]] 17 200000 from NOK 183 500000 to NOK 200 700000 171 Multilateral financial institutions 71 Regional banks and funds may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 840000 to NOK 837000000 172 Debt-related measures 70 Debt relief, balance of payments support and capacity building may be transferred, reduced by: 1 700 000 from NOK 319000000 to NOK 317 300000 200 Ministry of Knowledge Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 372 465 000 to NOK 362 465 000 220 Education Directorate — Kindergarten Directorate, Initial Training and ICT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 31,000,000 from NOK 372 786 000 to NOK 341 786 000 225 Basic training measures 64 Aid for the training of children and young people seeking residence in Norway is reduced by: 210 000 from NOK 111 351000 to NOK 111 141 000 65 Interest compensation for school and swimming facilities may be transferred, increased by: 98 245000 from NOK 199 608 000 to NOK 297 853 000 68 Subsidies for training in criminal services are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 287 542 000 to NOK 292 542 000 226 Quality development of initial training 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 27 245000 from NOK 1040 466 000 to NOK 1067 711000 63 Early school effort through increased teacher effort of 1–10. Steps shall be reduced by: 11 535000 from NOK 1529 048 000 to NOK 1517 513 000 240 Vocational education 60 Grants to post-secondary schools are increased by: 32 130 000 from NOK 651 079 000 to NOK 683 209 000 241 Joint actions for the vocational education sector 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 30 000 from NOK 20 248 000 to NOK 20 218 000 255 Contribution to Peace and Human Rights Centres 70 Centres for the Study of Holocaust and Life Vision Minorities are increased by 822,000 from NOK 33 858 000 to NOK 34 680000 75 The European Wergeland Centre shall be increased by: 500000 from NOK 9 218 000 to NOK 9 718 000 257 Competence plus 70 Grants may be transferred, reduced by: 822,000 from NOK 157 167 000 to NOK 156 345000 258 Measures for lifelong learning 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 1, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 123 391 000 to NOK 133 391 000 260 Universities and higher education institutions 50 State universities and higher education institutions are increased by: 59 720 000 from NOK 34 355 141 000 to NOK 34 414 861000 270 International mobility and social purposes for students 74 Subsidies for welfare work are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 87 044 000 to NOK 88 044 000 280 Common Units 51 Operation of national joint tasks shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 85 091000 to NOK 95 091000 71 Grants to UNIS shall be increased by: 6000000 from NOK 132 349 000 to NOK 138 349 000 281 Joint actions for universities and higher education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under heading 70, increased by: 6000000 from NOK 351,664 000 to NOK 357,664 000 70 Other transfers, may be used under item 1, increased by: 2500000 from NOK 59 798 000 to NOK 62 298 000 73 Grants to international programmes shall be increased by: 120000 from NOK 64 475000 to NOK 65 675000 285 Norwegian Research Council 52 Long-term basic research is reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 1630 883 000 to NOK 1605 883 000 53 Strategic bets are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 1459 936 000 to NOK 1454 936 000 55 Business costs are reduced by: 900000 from NOK 801,868,000 to NOK 800,968000 287 Research institutes and other activities 53 NUPI, increased by 535000 from NOK 4904000 to NOK 5439000 288 International cooperation actions 72 International basic research organisations are reduced by: 27 802,000 from NOK 338 558 000 to NOK 310 756 000 73 The EU Framework Programme for Research may be transferred, increased by: 8,778 000 from NOK 2 199 232 000 to NOK 2 208 010 000 75 UNESCO quota shall be reduced by: 1 127 000 from NOK 24 341000 to NOK 23 214000 290 Directorate for Integration and Diversity Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 120000 from NOK 241 314 000 to NOK 240 064 000 291 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants 21 Special operating costs, knowledge development, may be transferred, increased by: 1500000 from NOK 44 572 000 to NOK 46 072 000 60 Integration grants, may be transferred, increased by: 144 154,000 from NOK 11 254 978 000 to NOK 11 399 132 000 61 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 456 473,000 from NOK 3329 422 000 to NOK 2 872 949 000 71 Grants to migrant organisations and other voluntary activities are increased by: 1,542 000 from NOK 107 860000 to NOK 109 402000 292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants 60 Grants for training in Norwegian and community skills for adult immigrants are increased by: 15 297 000 from NOK 1 997 096 000 to NOK 2 012 393 000 300 Ministry of Culture Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 640000 from NOK 169 908000 to NOK 163 508000 315 Voluntary objectives 72 Grants for voluntary activities for children and young people are reduced by: 2,580 000 from NOK 6000000 to NOK 3420000 78 Various fixed measures are increased by: 4500000 from NOK 8 350 000 to NOK 12 850000 79 At its disposal, shall be reduced by: 3920000 from NOK 14 500000 to NOK 10 580000 82 VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities is increased by: 120,000,000 from NOK 185000000 to NOK 305000000 87 Grants to X Games, awarded by [[NY]] 3,000,000 320 Norwegian Cultural Council Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 184 759 000 to NOK 181,759 000 322 Building and public spaces Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 18 388 000 to NOK 17 388 000 50 Arts in public spaces are reduced by: 20 500000 from NOK 25 440000 to NOK 4 940000 323 Music and performing arts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1 320 000 from NOK 93 477 000 to NOK 92 157 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 59 458 000 to NOK 62 458 000 325 General cultural purposes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3880 000 from NOK 95 887 000 to NOK 92 007 000 21 Research, investigation and specific operational expenditure may be carried over, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 16 173 000 to NOK 13 173 000 53 The combination is increased by: 2000000 from NOK 83 700 000 to NOK 85 700 000 71 Cultural and creative industries are reduced by: 9000000 from NOK 56 630000 to NOK 47 630000 75 EU Culture and Audiovisual Programme, etc. , may be transmitted, reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 47 550000 to NOK 43 550000 78 Various firm measures are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 50 440000 to NOK 45 440000 79 At the disposal, under item 1, may be reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 7050000 to NOK 5050000 334 Film and media applications Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 946,000 from NOK 166 653 000 to NOK 168 599 000 50 The Film Fund shall be increased by: 21,000,000 from NOK 489 300000 to NOK 510 300000 335 Media support 71 Production grants shall be reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 320000000 to NOK 313000000 72 Innovation and development, granted by: [[NY]] 7000000 339 Gambling, lotteries and foundations Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,700,000 from NOK 79 724 000 to NOK 76 024 000 340 The Norwegian Church 70 Framework grants to the Norwegian Church shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 2041 100000 to NOK 2042 100000 342 Cemeteries and cemeteries 60 Interest compensation – church buildings, may be transferred, increased by: 16,000,000 from NOK 33 341000 to NOK 49 341000 400 Ministry of Justice and Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,300,000 from NOK 464 234 000 to NOK 459 934 000 23 Special operational expenditure, research, evaluation and knowledge acquisition may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 24 692,000 to NOK 29 692,000 71 Grants to international organisations are increased by: 37 000 from NOK 14 020000 to NOK 14 057000 410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 26 400000 from NOK 2451 320 000 to NOK 2477 720 000 430 Crime prevention services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 58 367 000 from NOK 4 670 787 000 to NOK 4 612 420000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 27 400000 from NOK 23 619 000 to NOK 51 019 000 70 Grants shall be increased by: 500000 from NOK 24 044 000 to NOK 24 544 000 432 College and educational centre of criminal services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23 067 000 from NOK 242 958000 to NOK 266 025 000 440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 91,000,000 from NOK 17 101 318 000 to NOK 17 192 318 000 25 Return of asylum-seekers with refusals and other non-residents without a legal stay, estimates, is reduced by: 52 800000 from NOK 201 954000 to NOK 149 154000 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 90 280 000 to NOK 88 280 000 73 Grants to the EU Border and Visa Fund are increased by: 770000 from NOK 184000000 to NOK 191 700000 442 Police College Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2500000 from NOK 627 039 000 to NOK 629 539 000 444 Police security service [[PST]] Operating costs are increased by: 4 100000 from NOK 861,215000 to NOK 865,315000 445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 252 753 000 to NOK 254 753 000 451 Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 456, entry 1 is increased by 12 900 000 from NOK 757 881000 to NOK 770 781 000 454 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 12 800000 from NOK 687 887 000 to NOK 675 087 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 241,706,000 from NOK 2 513 208 000 to NOK 2 271 502 000 455 Rescue services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 103,978 000 to NOK 106,978 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 8 717 000 to NOK 5 717 000 71 Grants to non-governmental organisations in the rescue services are increased by: 12 100000 from NOK 47 652,000 to NOK 59 752,000 72 Emergency and security services grants shall be reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 109 536 000 to NOK 107 036 000 456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 451, entry 1 is increased by: 47 350 000 from NOK 121 102000 to NOK 168 452 000 21 Special operational expenditure - infrastructure Emergency networks, reduced by: 18 900 000 from NOK 357,001 000 to NOK 338 101 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 34 352 000 to NOK 44 352 000 467 Norwegian Lovtidend Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,476,000 from NOK 4 276 000 to NOK 5 752 000 470 Free legal aid Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 87 147 000 from NOK 687 039 000 to NOK 599 892 000 471 State liability and compensation scheme of the Storting 72 Compensation in the event of criminal prosecution, the allocation of an estimate, shall be increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 59 702,000 to NOK 89 702,000 73 The capital allowance scheme shall be reduced by: 640000 from NOK 31 388 000 to NOK 24 988 000 473 Civil law administration of the State Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 72 454 000 to NOK 73 454 000 474 Conflict Board Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 800000 from NOK 118 433 000 to NOK 117 633 000 475 Out-of-court settlement services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 90 223 000 to NOK 103 223 000 480 Svalbard budget 50 Grants shall be increased by: 53,000,000 from NOK 238 370000 to NOK 291,370000 490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 14,000,000 from NOK 992 010 000 to NOK 978 010 000 21 Special operating costs, asylum receipts, are reduced by: 224 455000 from NOK 1019 623 000 to NOK 795 168 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Special operating costs, interpretation and translation, are reduced by: 10,423,000 from NOK 31 876 000 to NOK 21 453 000 30 Conversions, arrival centres for asylum registration and reception may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 97 900 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 3,600,000 from NOK 117 170000 to NOK 120 770000 60 Grants to host municipalities for asylum recipients shall be reduced by: 22,159,000 from NOK 208 053 000 to NOK 185 894000 70 Social benefits for residents in reception of asylum are reduced by: 30,753,000 from NOK 147 739 000 to NOK 116 986 000 72 Return of asylum seekers with a refusal and a return for refugees, the allocation of an estimate, shall be increased by: 36,550,000 from NOK 103 847,000 to NOK 140 397 000 75 Travel costs for refugees to and from abroad may be carried over, increased by: 726,000 from NOK 11 194 000 to NOK 11 920000 491 Foreigner’s Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 21, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 309 867 000 to NOK 299 867 000 500 Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 395 219 000 to NOK 391 219 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 88 536 000 to NOK 85 536 000 27 Common ICT solution, may be transmitted, granted by: [[NY]] 13,000,000 510 Ministry Security and Service Organisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 660 786 000 to NOK 656 786 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 6,700,000 from NOK 20 087 000 to NOK 26 787 000 525 The County Departments Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 34,000,000 from NOK 1 836 856 000 to NOK 1 802 856 000 530 Construction projects outside the housing arrangement 31 Start of construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 70000000 from NOK 80000000 to NOK 150000000 33 The continuation of construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 70000000 from NOK 1 955000000 to NOK 2 025000000 36 Artistic decoration, may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 19000000 to NOK 16000000 533 Non-residential property Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2 210 000 from NOK 20 200000 to NOK 22 410000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 35 500000 from NOK 27000000 to NOK 62 500000 540 Directorate for Management and ICT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 273 667 000 to NOK 271 667 000 542 International ICT Cooperation and Development Programme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 365 000 from NOK 5 757,000 to NOK 5 392 000 545 The Data Protection Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 54 441000 to NOK 53 441000 550 Convertible business and local communities in districts 73 The Mercury programme, may be transferred, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 48 307 000 to NOK 50 307 000 553 Convertible regions 63 Border Regional Interreg programme, can be used under Cape. 553, entries 60 and 65 are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 51 300000 to NOK 46 300000 560 Composite 50 The combination is increased by: 2000000 from NOK 310 954000 to NOK 312 954000 571 Framework grants to municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 164 200000 from NOK 125 679 688 000 to NOK 125 843 888 000 572 Framework grant to county municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 300000 000 from NOK 32 589 545000 to NOK 32 889 545000 578 Election Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 55 697 000 to NOK 52 697 000 585 Lease vis-à-vis the Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 500000 from NOK 28 717 000 to NOK 29 217 000 587 Directorate for Building Quality Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 103 655000 to NOK 101 655000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Knowledge development and dissemination are reduced by: 4,800,000 from NOK 53 181000 to NOK 48 381 000 595 State Charts, object lighting and national geographical infrastructure Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 595 items 21 and 45 are reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 882 524 000 to NOK 879 524 000 600 Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 219 567 000 to NOK 214 567 000 601 Exploration, research and related activities 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 12 800000 from NOK 53,035000 to NOK 40,235000 50 The Norwegian Research Council is reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 162 841000 to NOK 157 841000 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 7 100000 from NOK 34 530000 to NOK 27 430000 605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 7 010 000 from NOK 11 494 243 000 to NOK 11 487 233 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Research and investigation activities are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 52 923 000 to NOK 47 923 000 606 Social security rights Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,900,000 from NOK 71 771000 to NOK 74 671000 611 Pensions of state funds Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1 400000 from NOK 18 400000 to NOK 17000000 612 Grants to State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 211,000,000 from NOK 4 566000000 to NOK 4 777000000 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 174000000 to NOK 175000000 613 Employer’s fee for social security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 4000000 to NOK 3000000 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 22000000 to NOK 21000000 614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 26000000 to NOK 28000000 90 Loans, estimates, are increased by: 900 000 000 from NOK 3,40000000 to NOK 4,300000000 616 Group life insurance services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 200000000 to NOK 199000000 634 Labour market measures 76 Measures for job seekers may be transferred, increased by: 770000 from NOK 7 477 135000 to NOK 7 484 835000 77 Permanently organised work may be transferred, increased by: 3,700,000 from NOK 1395 460000 to NOK 1399 160 000 635 Wages and salaries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 19000000 to NOK 20000000 640 Labour Inspectorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 619,769 000 to NOK 624,769 000 642 Petroleum control Add User-ID Succeeded Operating expenditure, may be used under item 21, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 266 629 000 to NOK 267 629 000 660 War Pension 70 Grants, military, allocation of estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 70000000 to NOK 69000000 71 Grants, civil, estimates, are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 184000000 to NOK 180000000 664 Seafarer pension scheme 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 47000000 to NOK 44000000 666 Retirement contract [[AFP]] Grants, estimates, are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 220000000 to NOK 2 210000000 700 Ministry of Health and Welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 9000000 from NOK 235 869 000 to NOK 226 869 000 701 E-health, health records, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 18 500000 from NOK 250 933 000 to NOK 232 433 000 70 Norwegian Health Net SF, reduced by 4,000,000 from NOK 147 019 000 to NOK 143 019 000 710 Vaccines, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 45 900 000 from NOK 270 107 000 to NOK 316 007 000 714 Public health 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under items 70, 74 and 79, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 149 653 000 to NOK 152 653 000 732 Regional health establishments 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 19 587 000 to NOK 18 587 000 70 Specific grants, may be carried over, may be used under headings 72, 73, 74 and 75, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 700 607 000 to NOK 685 607 000 72 Basic appropriations Health south-east RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 652 800000 from NOK 51 985 750000 to NOK 51 332 950000 73 Basic appropriations Health West RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 230 100000 from NOK 18 327 061 000 to NOK 18 096 961000 74 Basic appropriations Health Middle Norway RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 174 100000 from NOK 13 865 726 000 to NOK 13 691 626 000 75 Basic appropriations Health North RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 155 800000 from NOK 12 403 447 000 to NOK 12 247 647 000 76 Intervention-driven financing, estimates, is reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 36,062 556 000 to NOK 36,032 556 000 77 Laboratory and radiological studies, estimates, are reduced by: 70000000 from NOK 3 129 988 000 to NOK 3 059 988 000 80 VAT compensation, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 28 200000 from NOK 6 414 149 000 to NOK 6 385 949 000 86 Operating credits shall be increased by: 500,000 from NOK 157000000 to NOK 657000000 733 Habilitation and rehabilitation services 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 79, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 14 749 000 to NOK 16 749 000 72 Purchases of training, etc. , may be transmitted, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 2812000 to NOK 1812000 79 Other grants, may be used under item 21, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 6 162000 to NOK 7 162000 740 Directorate for Health Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 570000 from NOK 1 172 992,000 to NOK 1 167 292 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 12,000,000 from NOK 30 576 000 to NOK 18 576 000 70 Health services in other EEA countries are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 48 887 000 to NOK 43 387 000 745 Public health institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 44 600 000 from NOK 1059 233 000 to NOK 1014 633 000 746 National Agency for Medicinal Products Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 12 190 000 from NOK 296 510000 to NOK 284 320 000 761 Nursing services 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 79, increased by: 14 500000 from NOK 133,796 000 to NOK 148,296 000 63 Investment grants may be transferred, increased by: 59 300000 from NOK 4038 857,000 to NOK 4098 157 000 64 Compensation for interest and deductions shall be increased by: 53 300000 from NOK 834 500000 to NOK 887 800000 65 Trials of state funding of care services, estimates, are increased by: 140,000,000 from NOK 1274 183 000 to NOK 1414 183 000 75 Other competence measures are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 11 314 000 to NOK 10 814 000 762 Primary Health Service 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 136 527 000 to NOK 129 527 000 61 Prison health services are increased by: 2,300,000 from NOK 172 418 000 to NOK 174 718 000 63 General medical services are increased by: 105 000 000 from NOK 94,672 000 to NOK 199,672 000 64 Escalation plan habilitation and rehabilitation is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 91 736 000 to NOK 89 736 000 765 Psychiatric and drug services 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 72, increased by: 43,000,000 from NOK 103 867 000 to NOK 146 867 000 72 Voluntary work, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under entry 21, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 348 632 000 to NOK 345 632 000 769 Exploration, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 14 877 000 to NOK 13 877 000 780 Research 50 Norwegian Research Council, etc. , increased by: 1000000 from NOK 330 624 000 to NOK 331 624 000 783 Personnel 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 79, increased by: 12 800000 from NOK 39 783 000 to NOK 52 583 000 800 Ministry of Children and Gender Equality Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 150 916 000 to NOK 146 916 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 145000 from NOK 9 918 000 to NOK 10 063 000 844 Cash support 70 Grants, estimates, are increased by: 37 820,000 from NOK 1752 180000 to NOK 1790000 845 Child-rescue 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 65 000 000 from NOK 15 070000000 to NOK 15 005000000 847 EU Youth Programme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 8 236 000 to NOK 7 236 000 853 Children's protection and social affairs students Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 225 888 000 to NOK 220 888 000 854 Measures in the field of child protection 50 Research and development are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 18 197,000 to NOK 16 197,000 61 Developments in municipalities are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 20 108 000 to NOK 18 108 000 855 State administration of child protection Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 22 and item 60, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 3751 754 000 to NOK 3748 754 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Purchases of private child protection services may be used under item 1, reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 2561 973 000 to NOK 2557 973 000 858 Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 855 entry 1 is reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 257,671000 to NOK 254,671000 860 Consumer Council 50 Basic appropriations shall be reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 133 734 000 to NOK 128 734 000 51 Market portals, reduced by 900000 from NOK 26 537 000 to NOK 25 637 000 865 Consumer policy measures 79 The EU framework programme for consumer policy may be transferred, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 6 134 000 to NOK 5 134 000 867 Secretariat of the Market Council and Consumer Dispute Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 700000 from NOK 13 520000 to NOK 12 820000 868 Consumer supervision Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1,300,000 from NOK 27 171000 to NOK 25 871000 871 Equality and non-discrimination 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under heading 70, increased by: 400000 from NOK 11 592 000 to NOK 11 992 000 900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 8,000,000 from NOK 429 933000 to NOK 421 933000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 11 200000 from NOK 52 475000 to NOK 41 275 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Safe management of Norwegian nuclear waste and installations, can be transferred, reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 58000000 to NOK 53000000 31 Environmental measures Svea and Lunckeberg can be transferred, reduced by: 16,000,000 from NOK 141000000 to NOK 125000000 71 Environmental action Raufoss is increased by: 4500000 from NOK 620000 to NOK 10 700 000 75 Grants to specific projects may be transferred, increased by: 2,400,000 from NOK 8 800000 to NOK 11 200000 79 Grants to Mechatronics Innovation Lab, awarded by [[NY]] 41,000,000 83 Grants to the Centre for the Marine and Arctic Issues, awarded by [[NY]] 10000000 902 Adjusters Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 123,185000 to NOK 124,585000 904 The Brønn Island Registers This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Transferability of the ALTIN solution may be increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 274 418 000 to NOK 324 418 000 906 Directorate for Mineral Management with the Bergmeister for Svalbard 31 Environmental measures The loop, can be transmitted, reduced by: 31 500000 from NOK 36 700000 to NOK 520000 907 Norwegian Nuclear Decommissioning 1 Operating costs, granted by: [[NY]] 5000000 909 Measures for employment of seafarers 73 Allowances for employment of seafarers, estimates, are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 230000000 to NOK 2025000000 910 Directorate for Maritime Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 21,000,000 from NOK 386 240 000 to NOK 407 240 000 912 General Secretariat for Complaints Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 900000 from NOK 18 195 000 to NOK 19 095 000 915 Council of Rules Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 10 778 000 to NOK 8 778 000 917 Directorate for Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5,520,000 from NOK 401 411000 to NOK 406 931000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 67 664 000 to NOK 77 664 000 919 Miscellaneous fishing purposes 60 Grants to municipalities and counties, granted by [[NY]] 2,366,400,000 72 Grants for fishermen’s security training, granted by: [[NY]] 200000 75 Subsidies for nutritional measures in fisheries may be transferred, increased by: 6000000 from NOK 29 300000 to NOK 35 300000 76 Grants for fisheries research may be transferred, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 22 056 000 to NOK 12 056 000 920 Norwegian Research Council 51 Grants for nuclear research are reduced by: 102 500000 from NOK 102 500000 to NOK 0 922 Space activities 70 Quota of European Space Agency [[ESA]] 3,900,000 from NOK 217,310,000 to NOK 221,210 000 71 International space activities are increased by: 750000 from NOK 426 770000 to NOK 434 270 000 923 Marine Research Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 7,480,000 from NOK 613 693 000 to NOK 606 213 000 924 International cooperation and development programmes 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 13 300000 from NOK 29 520000 to NOK 16 220 000 926 Marine Research Institute, research vessel Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7000000 from NOK 157 771,000 to NOK 164 771000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 44 900 000 from NOK 55000000 to NOK 99 900 000 928 Other marine research and development services 50 Grants to the Veterinary Institute shall be reduced by: 240 000 from NOK 57 787 000 to NOK 57 547 000 929 Institute of Energy Engineering 22 Securing of nuclear installations, granted by: [[NY]] 10000000 51 Grants for nuclear research are granted by: [[NY]] 178,000,000 940 Internationalisation measures 73 Aid for exports of capital goods shall be increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 81000000 to NOK 84000000 950 Management of state ownership 70 Responsible Loans, Andøya Space Center, are granted by: [[NY]] 20,000,000 1100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 163,124 000 to NOK 161,124 000 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance - ordinary administrative bodies may be transferred, may be used under heading 50, increased by: 16 692,000 from NOK 2 720 000 to NOK 19 412000 1115 Food Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 1323 239 000 to NOK 1338 239 000 1136 Knowledge development, etc. 50 Knowledge development, dissemination and preparedness, the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, is reduced by: 1 525000 from NOK 235 465 000 to NOK 233 940000 1137 Research and innovation 50 Research activity, the Norwegian Research Council, is reduced by: 277,000 from NOK 242 306 000 to NOK 242 029 000 51 Basic appropriations, etc., the Norwegian Research Council, are reduced by: 1 183,000 from NOK 187 452 000 to NOK 186 269 000 1149 Value-added and development measures in agriculture 71 Contributions to forestry value added measures may be transferred, reduced by: 23,000,000 from NOK 92 300000 to NOK 69 300000 1161 Authority tasks and sectoral policy tasks on a government basis 75 Grants for supervision in general government are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 10 192 000 to NOK 11 192 000 1300 Ministry of Transport Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 36 000 from NOK 189 999 000 to NOK 190 035 000 70 Grants to international organisations shall be reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 45 200000 to NOK 42 200000 74 Grants to the Rescue Company shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 93 500000 to NOK 103 500000 1301 Research and development, etc. 21 Environmental, road safety, etc. , is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 15 968 000 to NOK 13 968 000 50 Transport research, may be transferred, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 167 014000 to NOK 165 014000 1310 Air transport services 70 Purchases of domestic routes may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 729 100000 to NOK 739 100000 1313 Air traffic control Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 221 860000 to NOK 220 860000 1320 State Road Service 23 Operation and maintenance services of highways, roads, road and vehicle traffic control services, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under entry 29, entry 30, entry 31 and entry 72 shall be increased by: 18 500000 from NOK 11 759 844 000 to NOK 11 778 344 000 30 Road transport investments may be carried over, may be used under item 23, item 29, item 31 and item 72 are increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 13 978000000 to NOK 14 078000000 31 Stitch protection, may be transmitted, may be used under item 30, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 638 200000 to NOK 688 200000 61 Interest compensation for transport measures in the counties is increased by: 90 800000 from NOK 181,700000 to NOK 272,500000 62 Stairway protection, may be transmitted, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 758 700000 to NOK 808 700000 1321 New Roads AS 70 New Roads AS grants are reduced by: 100000 000 from NOK 5278 800000 to NOK 5 178 800000 1330 Specific transport measures 66 Public transport services in districts [[NY]] [[KID]] 10000000 1352 Railway Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 38 500000 from NOK 457 458 000 to NOK 418 958 000 1357 Mantena AS 71 Capital injection, may be carried over, granted by: [[NY]] 200000000 1360 Coastal works Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 45, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 1692 687 000 to NOK 1691 687 000 60 Grants to fishing port facilities may be transferred, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 31 100000 to NOK 51 100000 1370 Postal services 70 Purchases of postal and banking services are increased by: 342,000,000 from NOK 261,700000 to NOK 603,700000 1380 National communication authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 1996 911000 to NOK 195 911000 1400 Ministry of Climate and Environment Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 286 754 000 to NOK 281 754 000 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 17 210 000 from NOK 84 509 000 to NOK 67 299 000 71 International organisations are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 85 133 000 to NOK 80 133 000 76 Support for national and international environmental measures may be transferred, reduced by: 13,000,000 from NOK 115 230000 to NOK 102 230000 1411 Species Databases 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under heading 70, increased by: 23 317,000 from NOK 675000 to NOK 29 592,000 50 Species and habitat types, may be transmitted, can be used under headings 21 and 70, reduced by: 16 861,000 from NOK 16 861000 to NOK 0 70 Subsidies to species and habitat types may be transferred, may be used under item 21, increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 11 441000 to NOK 19 441000 1412 Meteorology purposes 70 International cooperation projects are reduced by: 14 873 000 from NOK 166 297 000 to NOK 151 424 000 1420 Directorate for the Environment 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 600 000 from NOK 257 570000 to NOK 256 970000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. State action on the aquatic environment is increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 279 369 000 to NOK 283 369 000 23 Mission and fee-related activities may be transferred, increased by: 1,820,000 from NOK 132 462 000 to NOK 134 282 000 34 State acquisitions, national parks, may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 19 200000 35 Government acquisitions, forest protection, may be transferred, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 464 612000 to NOK 454 612000 61 Contributions to climate action and adaptation may be transferred, reduced by: 74,000,000 from NOK 153 920000 to NOK 79 920000 69 Cleaning measures, may be carried over, can be used under items 39 and 79, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 96 962 000 to NOK 86 962 000 70 Subsidies for aquatic environmental measures may be transferred, increased by: 3,200,000 from NOK 42 755000 to NOK 45 955000 73 Grants to predatory game measures may be transferred, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 70,051 000 to NOK 90,051 000 76 Reimbursement schemes, estimates, are increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 119 462 000 to NOK 139 462 000 85 Natural information centres may be transferred, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 66 114 000 to NOK 67 114 000 1428 Energy conversion, energy and climate technologies 50 Transfer to the Climate and Energy Fund shall be increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 2 720000000 to NOK 2733000000 1429 Riksantikvaren 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 2 100000 from NOK 36,727,000 to NOK 38,827,000 60 Cultural memory work in municipalities is reduced by: 2 100000 from NOK 15 716 000 to NOK 13 616 000 70 Grants to automatically peaced and other archaeological cultural memories may be transferred, increased by: 2500000 from NOK 33 164 000 to NOK 35 664 000 1473 Kings Bay AS 70 Grants shall be increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 21 642 000 to NOK 46 642 000 1481 Climate allowances This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Purchases of allowances, general scheme, may be transferred, reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 144000000 to NOK 114000000 1600 Ministry of Finance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 372,865000 to NOK 368,865000 1605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 36,000,000 from NOK 457 344 000 to NOK 493 344 000 1610 Customs duties Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 41 100000 from NOK 1487 947 000 to NOK 1529 047 000 1618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 90 100000 from NOK 5 762 275 000 to NOK 5 852 375 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 8,900,000 from NOK 195 300000 to NOK 204 200000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Major IT projects may be transferred, reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 576 500000 to NOK 546 500000 1620 Statistical Central Bureau Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 564 874 000 to NOK 569 874 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 14 600 000 to NOK 19 600 000 1632 Compensation for VAT 72 Grants to private and non-profit institutions serving households, estimates, are reduced by: 60,000,000 from NOK 2160000000 to NOK 2 10000000 1651 Central government debt, repayments and redemptions 98 Deductions on domestic government debt, estimate appropriations, by [[NY]] 20,000,000 1700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 110000 from NOK 801 119 000 to NOK 802 269 000 71 Transfers to others may be transferred, reduced by: 525000 from NOK 65 234 000 to NOK 64 709 000 78 Norway’s grant to NATO and international operating budgets may be transferred, reduced by: 62 003 000 from NOK 305 523,000 to NOK 243 520000 1710 Defence and new buildings and new installations Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 3899 804 000 to NOK 3895 804 000 1720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1,647,000 from NOK 9 609 482,000 to NOK 9 607 835000 1723 National safety authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 9000000 from NOK 268 947 000 to NOK 277,947 000 1731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 100 330,000 from NOK 5 066 104 000 to NOK 5 166 434 000 1732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 36,417,000 from NOK 4 114 269 000 to NOK 4077 852 000 1733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 153,765000 from NOK 4 936 621 000 to NOK 5 090 386 000 1734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 129 604,000 from NOK 1241,819,000 to NOK 1371,423,000 1735 Intelligence 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 25 369 000 from NOK 1905 510000 to NOK 1930 879 000 1760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1760, entry 45, increased by 40,535000 from NOK 1587 607 000 to NOK 1628 142 000 44 Joint funded investments, nationally financed shares, may be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 96 331000 to NOK 81 331000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be carried over, may be used under cover. 1761, entry 45 is increased by 28 621,000 from NOK 5 914 782,000 to NOK 5 943 403 000 48 Jointly financed investments, jointly financed, may be transferred, reduced by: 3,816,000 from NOK 71 500000 to NOK 67 684000 1790 Coast Guard Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 87 625000 from NOK 1027 838 000 to NOK 940 213 000 1791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 96/824,000 from NOK 854 745000 to NOK 951 569 000 1792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 757,000 from NOK 1009 909 000 to NOK 1 010 666 000 1800 Ministry of Oil and Energy Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 187 913,000 to NOK 184 913,000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 72, reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 25 946 000 to NOK 20 946 000 1810 Oil Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 297 808000 to NOK 295 808000 1811 Statoil ASA 96 Shares are reduced by: 146,000,000 from NOK 190000000 to NOK 1754000000 1815 Petoro AS 70 Administration is reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 350 315000 to NOK 347 315000 72 Administration, Petoro Iceland AS, is reduced by: 500000 from NOK 1497 000 to NOK 997 000 73 State participation in petroleum activities on Icelandic continental shelf may be transferred, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 28 700000 to NOK 18 700000 1820 Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 543 329 000 to NOK 538 329 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Flow and cutting prevention, may be transmitted, can be used under items 45, 60 and 72, increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 261 454 000 to NOK 361 454 000 26 Operating costs, the Energy Regulatory Authority, are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 55000000 to NOK 45000000 1830 Research and industrial development 70 Grants to Nordic energy research are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 11 300000 to NOK 630000 1840 CO 2 management 70 Administration, Gassnova SF, may be transferred, may be used under items 21 and 72, increased by: 11,000,000 from NOK 106 127 000 to NOK 117 127 000 72 Full scale CO 2 handling, can be transferred, can be used under items 21 and 70, increased by: 69,000,000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 89000000 2309 Random expense Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 320 000 000 from NOK 4 4 498 022 000 to NOK 4 178 022 000 2410 State Loan Fund for Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 45, increased by: 3,049,000 from NOK 391 399 000 to NOK 394 448 000 50 Appropriations for education grants, estimates, are increased by: 125,015,000 from NOK 6 929 577 000 to NOK 7 054 592 000 70 Training grants, estimates, are increased by: 151 489 000 from NOK 2806 225 000 to NOK 2 957 714 000 71 Other scholarships, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 54 565 000 from NOK 775 837 000 to NOK 721 272 000 72 Interest subsidies, estimates, are increased by: 192,825,000 from NOK 1011 612000 to NOK 1 204 437 000 73 Depreciation, estimate allocation, is reduced by: 7 524 000 from NOK 610 420000 to NOK 602 896 000 74 Loan losses are reduced by: 9 350 000 from NOK 385 550000 to NOK 376 200000 90 Increases in loans and interest payable, estimates are reduced by: 31 194,000 from NOK 27 218,070000 to NOK 27,186,876,000 2412 The Bank of Homes 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 11 263 000 to NOK 10 763 000 2421 Innovation Norway 51 Loss reserves, seed reserves and co-investment funds are increased by: 7 425000 from NOK 37 200000 to NOK 44 625000 53 Risk relief, seed and co-investment funds are increased by: 3,700,000 from NOK 18 800000 to NOK 22 500000 70 Basic costs are reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 167 767 000 to NOK 166 267 000 74 Travel life, profiling and competence may be transferred, increased by: 11 500000 from NOK 535000 to NOK 546 500000 80 Activities of Svalbard, financed by: [[NY]] 640000 95 Equity, seed and co-investment funds are increased by: 21 200000 from NOK 106 300000 to NOK 127 500000 2445 State-owned buildings 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -4 860 000 000 2 Operating expenditure 2 106 069 000 3 Depreciation 1123 814 000 4 Interest on the capital of the country 86 000 000 5 For investment purposes 1,279 976 000 6 To the Regulatory Fund -150 000 000 Syd -414 141 000 30 Building design, may be transferred, increased by: 143,000,000 from NOK 206 401,000 to NOK 349 401000 31 The start of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, reduced by: 65 000 000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 35000000 32 Design and launch of currant projects may be transferred, increased by: 150000000 from NOK 250000000 to NOK 40000000 2470 General government pension fund 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -664 825 000, statement of estimates 2 Operating expenditure 434 922 000, statement of estimates 3 Depreciation 123 760,000 4 Interest on national capital 1,249 000 5 For investment purposes 75 000 000 6 For regulatory fund 11 691 000 Syd -18 203 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 40 741000 to NOK 90 741000 2530 Parental carcass 70 Birth culls, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 871,000,000 from NOK 20 061000000 to NOK 19 190000000 71 Birth and adoption lump sum estimates are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 625000 to NOK 620000 72 Parental leave allowance, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 490000 to NOK 475000 73 In the event of adoption, the estimates are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 58000000 to NOK 61000000 2541 Day money 70 Appropriations for the day shall be reduced by: 1 738,000,000 from NOK 13 348 000 to NOK 11 610 000 2542 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. 70 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. , estimates are increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 7950000000 to NOK 840000 2620 Social benefits to a lonely mother or father 70 Transitional assistance, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 240,000,000 from NOK 2170000000 to NOK 1930000000 73 Supplementary and school-related social benefits, estimates are increased by: 725000 from NOK 91 275 000 to NOK 92000000 76 Contribution advance shall be reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 745000000 to NOK 725000 2650 Sykepenger 70 Sickness allowance for employees, etc. , estimates are reduced by: 1,250,000,000 from NOK 37 490 000 to NOK 36 290 000 71 Sickness benefits for self-employed persons, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 1490000000 to NOK 1450000000 72 Nursing, training, n.e.c. , estimates are reduced by: 276,000,000 from NOK 1271000000 to NOK 995000000 75 Health care holiday pay, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 60,000,000 from NOK 270000000 to NOK 2 010000000 2651 Clearance of duties 70 Clearance of work, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 1 002,000,000 from NOK 34 812000000 to NOK 33 810000000 71 Supplementary aid, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 27 260 000 from NOK 267 260000 to NOK 240000000 72 Medical statements shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 415000000 to NOK 425000 2655 Disability 70 Misappropriation, allocation of estimates, increased by: 870,000,000 from NOK 86 33000000 to NOK 87 200000000 75 Men’s compensation in the event of occupational injury, estimates are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 83000000 to NOK 84000000 2661 Basic and auxiliary aid, aids, etc. 70 Basic aid, estimates, is increased by: 9 130 000 from NOK 1900 870000 to NOK 1910000000 71 Auxiliary services, estimate appropriations, increased by 83 625000 from NOK 1549 375000 to NOK 1633000000 73 Utilities, etc. in the course of work and training, shall be reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 128000000 to NOK 126000000 74 Supplements to cars are reduced by: 69,875,000 from NOK 809 875000 to NOK 740000 75 Improvements in functionality, assistive devices, are increased by: 158 820,000 from NOK 3211 180000 to NOK 3370000000 76 Improvement of functionality, assistive devices such as services, is reduced by: 4,600,000 from NOK 309 600 000 to NOK 305000000 77 Orthopaedic aids shall be increased by: 66 975,000 from NOK 1533 025 000 to NOK 1 600 000 78 Hearing aids, reduced by: 1 975 000 from NOK 711 975000 to NOK 71000000 2670 Age 70 Basic pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 590,000 from NOK 73 430000 to NOK 72 840000 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 1110,000,000 from NOK 142 030000000 to NOK 140 920000 72 Pensions on income, estimates, are reduced by: 120,000,000 from NOK 1520000000 to NOK 140000 000 73 Special supplements, pension supplements etc. , estimates are increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 6080000000 to NOK 6 180000000 2680 Survivors 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 820000 to NOK 835000 72 Special supplement, estimated appropriation, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 81000000 to NOK 86000000 75 Support for child-care, estimates, is increased by: 100000 from NOK 490000 to NOK 5000000 2686 gravitational assistance 70 gravitational allowances, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 110000 from NOK 190 110000 to NOK 189000000 2711 Specialist health services, etc. 70 Specialist assistance, reduced by: 27 600 000 from NOK 2 007 600 000 to NOK 1 980 000 71 Psychological assistance, reduced by: 560000 from NOK 305 600 000 to NOK 300000 000 72 Dental treatment, reduced by: 1 600 000 from NOK 2 411 600 000 to NOK 2 410 000 76 Private laboratories and X-ray institutes shall be reduced by: 8,200,000 from NOK 998 200000 to NOK 990000000 2751 Medicinal products n.e.c. 70 Medicinal products, reduced by 215 200000 from NOK 10 162 200000 to NOK 9 947 000 71 Medical statements shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 6000000 to NOK 7000000 72 Medical consumables are reduced by: 38 300000 from NOK 2 018 300000 to NOK 1980000000 2752 Reimbursement of self-payment 70 Self-proprietary share cap 1 is increased by: 54 300000 from NOK 5098 200000 to NOK 5 152 500000 71 Self-proprietary cap 2, reduced by: 99 500000 from NOK 1089 500000 to NOK 990000000 2755 Health services in municipalities etc. 62 Remuneration scheme physiotherapists, may be used under heading 71, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 380000000 to NOK 390000000 70 General medical care is reduced by: 88 500000 from NOK 4 996000000 to NOK 4 907 500000 71 Physiotherapy, may be used under heading 62, reduced by: 81 800000 from NOK 161 800000 to NOK 1080000000 72 midwifery, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 62000000 to NOK 60000000 73 Chiropractor therapy is increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 157000000 to NOK 165000000 75 Logopedic and orthopaedic treatments are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 162000000 to NOK 161000000 2756 Other health services 70 Health services in other EEA countries are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 23000000 to NOK 22000000 71 Health services abroad etc. , is reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 485000000 to NOK 460000 72 Health services to non-residents, etc. , increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 215000000 to NOK 230000000 2790 Other health measures 70 Contributions, reduced by 12 800000 from NOK 247 800000 to NOK 235000000 3041 Size Add User-ID Succeeded Sales revenue is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 8 300000 to NOK 9 300000 3225 Basic training measures 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 11 552,000 from NOK 55 119 000 to NOK 43 567 000 3287 Research institutes and other activities 96 Share capital – CESSDA AS, granted by [[NY]] 50000 3291 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Integration grants for transfer refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 22 975 000 from NOK 197,200000 to NOK 220,175000 2 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 62 092,000 from NOK 113 874 000 to NOK 51 782 000 3292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Norwegian receipt training, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 29 543,000 from NOK 50 505000 to NOK 20 962000 3410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Legal fee, reduced by: 19 800000 from NOK 385 310000 to NOK 365 510000 3440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat 6 Fee — Foreign affairs, reduced by: 3,392,000 from NOK 268 284 000 to NOK 264 892 000 3445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office 2 Reimbursements, granted by [[NY]] 2000000 3456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Subscription income is reduced by: 120000 from NOK 338 696 000 to NOK 337 496 000 2 Reimbursements of operating costs shall be reduced by: 9 250000 from NOK 42 204 000 to NOK 32 954000 3469 Vertegration scheme Add User-ID Succeeded Vergemåls/representative scheme, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 5,430,000 from NOK 9 360 000 to NOK 330000 3490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Return of asylum seekers with a refusal and return for refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 15 440,000 from NOK 115 468 000 to NOK 100 028 000 3 Travel expenses for refugees to and from abroad, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 1,705,000 from NOK 12 445000 to NOK 14 150000 4 Asylum recipients, ODA-approved expenditure, are reduced by: 221 461,000 from NOK 706 714 000 to NOK 485 253 000 3587 Directorate for Building Quality 4 Fees shall be reduced by: 570000 from NOK 50,070000 to NOK 44,370000 3605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Administrative allowances shall be reduced by: 6,310,000 from NOK 14 830000 to NOK 8 520000 6 Fee income for the determination of contributions shall be reduced by: 2,020,000 from NOK 27 720 000 to NOK 25 700 000 3614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Fee income, loans, is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 22000000 to NOK 23000000 90 Repayment of loans shall be reduced by: 1,300,000 from NOK 13 600000000 to NOK 12 300000 000 3616 Group life insurance services Add User-ID Succeeded Premium income is reduced by: 12,000,000 from NOK 118000000 to NOK 106000000 3635 Wages and salaries, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursement of State activities, etc. , is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 12000000 85 Invitation to the payment of outstanding wages and salaries is reduced by: 100000 from NOK 400000 to NOK 300000 3740 Directorate for Health 4 Fee revenue shall be reduced by: 4,700,000 from NOK 42 635000 to NOK 37 935000 5 Health services to non-residents, etc. , is reduced by: 7,373,000 from NOK 69 373 000 to NOK 62 000 000 3746 National Agency for Medicinal Products 4 Registration fee shall be reduced by: 9 520,000 from NOK 90 059 000 to NOK 80 539 000 5 Reimbursement fee shall be reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 3087 000 to NOK 587 000 3855 State administration of child protection 60 Local features are reduced by: 74,000,000 from NOK 1472 039 000 to NOK 1398 039 000 3856 Childcare centre for lone minor asylum seekers 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 76 964 000 from NOK 138 536 000 to NOK 61 572 000 3871 Equality and non-discrimination 1 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 1 400000 3902 Adjusters Add User-ID Succeeded Fee revenue shall be reduced by: 11 500000 from NOK 38 924 000 to NOK 27 424 000 3 Revenue from the sale of services is increased by: 500000 from NOK 16 667 000 to NOK 22 167 000 86 Infringement fee, granted by [[NY]] 60000 3910 Directorate for Maritime Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Charges for ships and mobile appliances in NOR shall be increased by: 35,000,000 from NOK 182 729 000 to NOK 217 729 000 3917 Directorate for Fisheries 13 Income from breeding concessions, granted by: [[NY]] 2864 400,000 3950 Management of state ownership 87 Deposit – guarantee scheme, Export finance ASA, granted by [[NY]] 21 700 000 90 Discounts on loans, Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkompani AS, are granted by [[NY]] 2,700,000 4100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 40 Sale of property, by: [[NY]] 16 692,000 4136 Knowledge development, etc. 30 Husleie, Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, is reduced by: 2,985,000 from NOK 20 643 000 to NOK 17 658 000 4300 Ministry of Transport 96 Shares, by [[NY]] 300000 4322 Svinesund compound AS 90 Deductions from loans shall be increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 75000000 to NOK 90000000 4411 Species Databases 2 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 14,456,000 4420 Directorate for the Environment 4 Fees, the pollution area, shall be increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 38 132 000 to NOK 39 532 000 7 Fees, allowances system, are increased by: 450,000 from NOK 8 077 000 to NOK 8 527 000 4429 Riksantikvaren 2 Reimbursements and miscellaneous income are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 4 506 000 to NOK 2 506 000 9 International missions are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 1277 000 to NOK 3277 000 4605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Economic services are increased by: 37,000,000 from NOK 50 600 000 to NOK 87 600 000 4610 Customs duties 2 Other income is increased by: 1 100000 from NOK 897 000 to NOK 1997 000 4618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursed call and call charges shall be increased by: 18,000,000 from NOK 59000000 to NOK 77000000 7 Fee for binding prior opinions shall be increased by: 1 100000 from NOK 210000 to NOK 350000 89 Infringement fee shall be reduced by: 9000000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 4000000 4720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 94 253 000 from NOK 224 107 000 to NOK 318 360 000 4732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 640000 from NOK 54 174 000 to NOK 47 774 000 4733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 200000 from NOK 107 660000 to NOK 107 860000 4760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 22,293,000 from NOK 30 174 000 to NOK 52 467 000 45 Larger equipment acquisition and maintenance, revenue, granted by [[NY]] 54,792,000 4791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 96/824,000 from NOK 766,460,000 to NOK 863,284000 4792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 8,429 000 from NOK 39 312 000 to NOK 30 883 000 4811 Statoil ASA 96 Dividend shares are reduced by: 146,000,000 from NOK 190000000 to NOK 1754000000 5309 Random income 29 Miscellaneous, incremented by 200000000 from NOK 150000000 to NOK 350000000 5310 State Loan Fund for Education 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 810000 from NOK 23 600 000 to NOK 24 410000 29 Appointment fee shall be reduced by: 1,869,000 from NOK 18 512000 to NOK 16 643 000 89 Pure fees shall be reduced by: 1 208 000 from NOK 104,672 000 to NOK 103,464 000 90 Reduced loans and interest payable are increased by: 64 874 000 from NOK 10 172 117 000 to NOK 10 236 991000 93 Conversion of training loans into scholarships shall be increased by: 295 276 000 from NOK 6 409 778 000 to NOK 6 705 054 000 5325 Innovation Norway 50 Return from a nationwide innovation scheme is increased by: 20,700,000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 40 700 000 85 The repayment of depreciated loans from seed capital funds shall be granted by: [[NY]] 9 400000 91 Returned capital, seed funds, is reduced by: 900000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 9 100000 5341 Deductions on outstanding receivables 98 Deductions on own-account government bonds, granted by: [[NY]] 20,000,000 5351 Transfer from Norway’s Bank 85 Transfer is reduced by: 167 400000 from NOK 14 50000000 to NOK 14 332 600 000 5440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue 153 200000000 2 Operating expenditure -28 300000000 3 Expenses of exploration and field development -2 100000000 4 Depreciation -26 000 000 000 5 Interest on the capital of the country -3 300 000 000 Syd 93 50,000,000 30 Depreciation is increased by: 3,800,000 from NOK 22 200000000 to NOK 26000000 5445 State-owned buildings 39 Provisions for investment purposes are increased by: 150000000 from NOK 129,976 000 to NOK 1279,976 000 5460 Export Credit Guarantee Institute 73 Recovery from the SUS/Baltic system shall be granted by: [[NY]] 32 500000 5470 General government pension fund 30 Provisions for investment purposes are increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 25000000 to NOK 75000000 5491 Depreciation of the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 30 Depreciation is increased by: 19 309,000 from NOK 1,232 865000 to NOK 1252 174 000 5521 Value added tax 70 VAT is increased by: 1,032,000,000 from NOK 291 50000000 to NOK 292 532000000 5526 Charge on alcohol 70 Charges on alcohol are reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 13 80000000 to NOK 13 793000000 5536 Fee on motor vehicles, etc. 71 One-off fee shall be increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 15 935000 to NOK 15 939000000 5538 Fuel user charge 70 The user charge on petrol is reduced by: 45,000,000 from NOK 5 10000000 to NOK 5 055000000 71 A user charge on automotive diesel is reduced by: 320 000 000 from NOK 9 900000000 to NOK 9 580000000 5543 Environmental taxes on mineral products, etc. 70 CO 2 tax reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 7 939 000 to NOK 7 919 000 5555 Fee on chocolate and sugar confectionery, etc. 70 Fee on chocolate and sugar confectionery, etc. , is reduced by: 348,000,000 from NOK 2520000000 to NOK 2 172000000 5556 Fee for non-alcoholic beverages, etc. 70 Fee for non-alcoholic beverages, etc. , is reduced by: 279,000,000 from NOK 3170000000 to NOK 2891000000 5561 Passenger charge 70 Passenger charges are reduced by: 14,000,000 from NOK 1850000000 to NOK 1836000000 5572 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Health and Welfare 74 Supervisory fee, reduced by: 3770 000 from NOK 3770 000 to NOK 0 5576 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food 72 Hunting and felling fees shall be increased by: 9 763,000 from NOK 90 915000 to NOK 100 678 000 5607 Interest of the housing loan scheme in the State pension fund 80 Interest is increased by: 295,000,000 from NOK 825000 to NOK 1120000000 5611 NSB AS shares 85 Dividends are increased by: 165 000 from NOK 150000000 to NOK 315000000 5612 Interest from the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kullkompani AS 80 Interests granted by: [[NY]] 3,200,000 5617 Interest of the State Loan Fund for Education 80 Interest is increased by: 727 406,000 from NOK 3880 231 000 to NOK 4 607 637 000 5622 Shares in Avinor AS 85 Dividends are increased by: 17 700 000 from NOK 232000000 to NOK 249 700 000 5624 Interest of the Svinesund compound AS 80 Interest is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 4000000 to NOK 3000000 5625 Interest and dividends from Innovation Norway 81 The interest margin, the innovation loan scheme, is increased by: 4,900,000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 24 900 000 85 Dividends, the Low Risk Loan Facility, are increased by: 121,000,000 from NOK 125000000 to NOK 246000000 88 Return of dividends from seed capital funds granted by: [[NY]] 13 100000 5631 Shares in AS Vinmonopolet 85 The surplus share of the country is reduced by: 7 400000 from NOK 70 900 000 to NOK 63 500000 5652 Landskog SF - interest and dividends 80 Interest is reduced by: 600 000 from NOK 630000 to NOK 30 000 85 Dividends are increased by: 34,000,000 from NOK 26000000 to NOK 60000000 5656 Shares in companies under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 85 Dividends are increased by: 3,083,500,000 from NOK 16 962 219 000 to NOK 20 045 719 000 5680 Statnett SF 85 Dividends are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 336000000 to NOK 326000000 5701 Miscellaneous income 71 Reimbursement in the event of occupational injury shall be reduced by: 126 900 000 from NOK 1076 827 000 to NOK 949 927 000 73 Reimbursement by contributors shall be increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 225000000 to NOK 240000000 86 Recovery of errors, increased by: 582,000,000 from NOK 718000000 to NOK 130000000000 87 Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 18,000,000 from NOK 34 600 000 to NOK 16 600 000 88 Assistive Technology Centres, etc. , increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 61000000 to NOK 65000000 5705 Reimbursement of daily allowances 70 Reimbursement of daily allowances, State guarantee in the event of bankruptcy, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 23000000 to NOK 28000000 71 Reimbursement of daily allowances for frontier workers, etc. resided in Norway, reduced by 200000 from NOK 800000 to NOK 600000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e67638	Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision of the Grand Duchy on excise duties applicable to the State Treasury for 2018 I In Decision No 12 December 2017 of the European Parliament and of the Council, 178 on excise duties on the State Treasury for 2018 is amended as follows: On the excise duty on fuel [[chapter. 5538 items 70, 71 and 72]] – sulphur-free petrol NOK 5,02, [[(less than 10 ppm sulphur):]] – low-sulphurised petrol NOK 5,06, [[(less than 50 ppm sulphur):]] – other petrol: NOK 5,06. II In Decision No 12 December 2017 of the European Parliament and of the Council, 178 on excise duties on the State Treasury for 2018 is amended as follows: On the excise duty on fuel [[chapter. 5538 items 70, 71 and 72]] – sulphur-free mineral oil NOK 3,40, [[(less than 10 ppm sulphur):]] – Low-sulphurised mineral oil NOK 3,46, [[(less than 50 ppm sulphur):]] – other mineral oil: NOK 3,46, III In Decision No 12 December 2017 of the European Parliament and of the Council, 178 on excise duties on the State Treasury for 2018 is amended as follows: The following new Section 5(q) under A. A flat-rate fee is added: [[chapter. 5536 heading 71]] q. Motor vehicles using biogas only for propulsion IV In Decision No 12 December 2017 of the European Parliament and of the Council, 178 on excise duties on the State Treasury for 2018 is amended as follows: The following new point 2(e) of Section 2 of the Air Passenger Charge is added: [[chapter. 5561 heading 70]] in the early 20th century C.E. Aeroplanes below 20 tonnes VT In Decision No 12 December 2017 of the European Parliament and of the Council, 178 on excise duties on the State Treasury for 2018 is amended as follows: CO 2 tax on mineral products [[chapter. 5543 heading 70]] c. LPG: such that the charge is equal to 150 SEK/tonne CO 2 VI In Decision No 12 December 2017 of the European Parliament and of the Council, 178 on excise duties on the State Treasury for 2018 is amended as follows: CO 2 tax on mineral products [[chapter. 5543 heading 70]] d. Natural gas: so that the charge corresponds to 150 SEK/tonne CO 2 VII For Decisions I, II and III, the amendment shall become applicable from 1 August 2018 and for Decisions IV, V and VI from 1 November 2018.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a sufficient number of modern and digitised tanks to meet Norway’s commitments to NATO for a modern mechanised brigade by 2024. The government is asking for a financial framework as soon as possible with final landfill approval by 2019 at the latest. Solutions should be sought in a multinational framework and possible strategic cooperation should also include Norwegian involvement in the development of the next generation tanks.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e67736	There is a vote on proposal No. 48, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reconsider the proposed changes in taxation and reporting on benefits in kind and return to Stortinget with a new proposal that takes account of the broad tax base and the simplification of reporting.’; The Labour Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e67753	There is a vote on proposal No. 45, from the Socialist Left Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the imposition of a temporary ban on the placing on the market of vessels authorised to fish for leopards and requests that the issue of negotiability be referred to the industry before deciding on any prohibition or opening.’; The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e67770	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 43 and 44, from the Center Party and Red. Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision of the Grand Duchy on excise duties applicable to the State Treasury for 2018: I In Decision No 12 December 2017 of the European Parliament and of the Council, 178 on excise duties on the State Treasury for 2018 is amended as follows: About the fee on chocolate and sugar confectionery, etc. [[chapter. 5555 heading 70]] As from 1 August 2018 it shall be subject to Law No 19 May 1933. 11 on excise duties is paid to the State Treasury for the introduction and domestic production of chocolate and sugar products, etc. with NOK 20,51 per kg of the weight of the goods subject to excise duty.» II In Decision No 12 December 2017 of the European Parliament and of the Council, 178 on excise duties on the State Treasury for 2018 is amended as follows: For a fee on non-alcoholic beverages etc. [[chapter. 5556 heading 70]] As from 1 August 2018 it shall be subject to Law No 19 May 1933. 11 on excise duties paid to the central bank on imports and domestic production of the following non-alcoholic products by the following amounts per litre: (a) Beverages: – with added sugar or artificial sweetener: DKK 3,39, – based on fruit, berries or vegetables with added artificial sweeteners: SEK 1,70, (b) Syrup: – with added sugar or artificial sweetener and used for the acquisition of non-alcoholic beverages in dispensers, fountains and the like: DKK 20,65, – based on fruit, berries or vegetables with added artificial sweeteners and used for the acquisition of non-alcoholic beverages in dispensers, fountains and the like: DKK 10,32. III For Decisions I and II, the amendment shall become applicable from 1 August 2018.’» Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide clear guidance on the choice of criteria in such a way that Norwegian industry is competitive in tendering procedures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e67837	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 41 and 42, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a qualification programme that provides both Bachelor’s and Master’s candidates who completed or started studies in psychology at ELTE University before the Health Directorate amended recognition practices in 2016, the possibility of approved education and for authorisation for practice in Norway.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the second high grade battalion.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e67861	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 39 and 40, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to continue the Kleivgrend and Håvet divisions at Arendal prison.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to re-prioritise the funds in its national transport plan to ensure that the InterCity and Ringerix sections are expanded within the time frame adopted by Stortinget in 2017.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e67883	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 36–38, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the appropriations from Norway’s climate and forest action are in line with the objectives of contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the conservation of the carbon-binding capacity of the natural forest. Means shall not be used to finance actions that will increase greenhouse gas emissions and degrade natural forests, including facilitating and supporting industrial logging in rainforest.» Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government requests the design of instruments that effectively exclude high deforestation risk biofuels from both the placing on the market and the tax-free biofuel market. These framework conditions shall be submitted in the context of the 2019 State Budget and enter into force from 1 January 2019.» Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote its own proposition for the development of the Snorre Expansion Project for Stortinget. The proposition looks in particular at the possibilities for emission-free power generation. Pending this treatment, no contracts shall be concluded for the project.» The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e67912	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 32–35, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to move administrative resources in UDI and UNE to speed up the process of family reunification, giving priority to work on recalls in old cases.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of the producer responsibility regime for fishery and farming equipment by 1 January 2019. The system shall impose on producers and importers of equipment used in the fishery and farming industry a responsibility for the products throughout their lifetime, even when they have become waste.» Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce mandatory reporting for lost fishing gear in both commercial and non-commercial fisheries.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government asks to increase the pledge of all pans and cans to at least DKK 5 per unit.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e67944	There is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a separate case on the structure of passport issuance and to ensure that the Storting is given a decision on the number of passport offices in the country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e67960	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29 and 31 from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for self-taxation rights for fathers for leave equivalent to the spring quota in the 2019 government budget.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the closure of the traffic management centre in Hamar to ensure that those changes point to, implemented and necessary responsibilities for the traffic management of the RV on the RV until the joint country-wide system is in place.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e67984	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an investment decision plan for the implementation of the full scale carbon capture and storage project in the context of the State budget for 2019.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e68001	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to negotiate an extension of the lease for the Bergen prison Osterøy department, so that the department can be included in the current KVU for the Criminal Service Region of the West.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e68016	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2018 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 21 Government Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 173 061 000 to NOK 181 061 000 41 Size Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 961,300000 to NOK 962,300000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, granted by: [[NY]] 2000000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 263 700 000 from NOK 593 400000 to NOK 857 100000 70 Grants to the batches shall be increased by: 6000000 from NOK 186000000 to NOK 192000000 61 Supreme Court Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 109 750000 to NOK 111 150000 100 Ministry of Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 8 600 000 from NOK 2 253 292,000 to NOK 2 244 692,000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 12 931000 to NOK 17 931000 116 Participation in international organisations 70 Grants to international organisations shall be reduced by: 150000000 from NOK 1499 500000 to NOK 1349 500000 118 North-area actions, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under items 70 and 71, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 38 204 000 to NOK 43 204 000 150 Aid to Africa 78 Regional allocation for Africa may be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 2728 640000 to NOK 2713 640000 151 Aid to Asia 72 Assistance to Afghanistan may be transferred, increased by: 6000000 from NOK 565000000 to NOK 571000000 78 Appropriations for Asia may be carried over, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 221 500000 to NOK 211 500000 152 Assistance to the Middle East and North Africa 78 Regional allocation for the Middle East and North Africa may be transferred, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 606000000 to NOK 599000000 162 Transitional aid/vulnerable countries and regions 70 Transitional aid/vulnerable countries and regions may be transferred, increased by: 7000000 from NOK 343000000 to NOK 350000000 163 Emergency aid, humanitarian aid and human rights 70 Emergency aid and humanitarian aid may be transferred, increased by: 166 202,000 from NOK 4 511000000 to NOK 4 677 202 000 72 Human rights, can be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 360000000 to NOK 370000 000 165 Research, empowerment and evaluation 71 Professional cooperation, may be transferred, increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 428 658 000 to NOK 441 658 000 166 Climate, environment and renewable energy 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 65 000 000 70 Miscellaneous grants, may be transferred, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 550000 to NOK 0 72 Climate and environment, can be transmitted, increased by: 133,000,000 from NOK 917 200000 to NOK 1050 200000 167 Refugee measures in Norway, approved as development aid [[ODA]] Special operating costs are reduced by: 397 802,000 from NOK 1425 477 000 to NOK 1027 675000 168 Women's rights and equality 70 Women's rights and equality may be transferred, increased by: 7 600 000 from NOK 346 700000 to NOK 354 300000 169 Global health and education 70 Global health, can be transmitted, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 3,218,916,000 to NOK 3,233,916,000 73 Education, may be transferred, reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 1904 010 000 to NOK 1884 010 000 170 United Nations organisations, etc. 76 United Nations and global challenges, can be transmitted, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 212 300000 to NOK 222 300000 81 Food security and agricultural climate change, can be transmitted, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 275000000 to NOK 285000000 83 World Health Organisation [[WHO]] 17 200000 from NOK 183 500000 to NOK 200 700000 171 Multilateral financial institutions 71 Regional banks and funds may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 840000 to NOK 837000000 172 Debt-related measures 70 Debt relief, balance of payments support and capacity building may be transferred, reduced by: 1 700 000 from NOK 319000000 to NOK 317 300000 225 Basic training measures 64 Aid for the training of children and young people seeking residence in Norway is reduced by: 210 000 from NOK 111 351000 to NOK 111 141 000 65 Interest compensation for school and swimming facilities may be transferred, increased by: 98 245000 from NOK 199 608 000 to NOK 297 853 000 68 Subsidies for training in criminal services are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 287 542 000 to NOK 292 542 000 226 Quality development of initial training 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 27 245000 from NOK 1040 466 000 to NOK 1067 711000 63 Early school effort through increased teacher effort of 1st to 10th stages is reduced by: 11 535000 from NOK 1529 048 000 to NOK 1517 513 000 228 Grants to independent schools, etc. 77 The German school in Oslo, the estimate, is increased by 4,000,000 from NOK 19 025 000 to NOK 23 025 000 231 Kindergartens 60 Manning standard Kindergarten transitional arrangement, granted by [[NY]] 200000000 240 Vocational education 60 Grants to post-secondary schools are increased by: 7 130 000 from NOK 651 079 000 to NOK 658 209 000 241 Joint actions for the vocational education sector 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 30 000 from NOK 20 248 000 to NOK 20 218 000 255 Contribution to Peace and Human Rights Centres 70 Centres for the Study of Holocaust and Life Vision Minorities are increased by 822,000 from NOK 33 858 000 to NOK 34 680000 71 The Fallstown Centre shall be increased by: 415000 from NOK 19 675000 to NOK 20 090 000 72 The Archive Foundation shall be increased by: 3,820,000 from NOK 11 743 000 to NOK 15 563 000 73 Nansen Fredssenter, increased by 1000000 from NOK 6 377 000 to NOK 7 377 000 74 The Narvik Centre is increased by: 415000 from NOK 7084 000 to NOK 7 499 000 75 The European Wergeland Centre shall be increased by: 500000 from NOK 9 218 000 to NOK 9 718 000 257 Competence plus 70 Grants may be transferred, reduced by: 822,000 from NOK 157 167 000 to NOK 156 345000 258 Measures for lifelong learning 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 1, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 123 391 000 to NOK 133 391 000 260 Universities and higher education institutions 50 State universities and higher education institutions are increased by: 47 220 000 from NOK 34 355 141 000 to NOK 34 402 361 000 270 International mobility and social purposes for students 74 Subsidies for welfare work are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 87 044 000 to NOK 88 044 000 280 Common Units 51 Operation of national joint tasks shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 85 091000 to NOK 95 091000 71 Grants to UNIS shall be increased by: 6000000 from NOK 132 349 000 to NOK 138 349 000 281 Joint actions for universities and higher education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under heading 70, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 351,664 000 to NOK 366,664 000 73 Grants to international programmes shall be increased by: 120000 from NOK 64 475000 to NOK 65 675000 285 Norwegian Research Council 55 Business costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 801,868,000 to NOK 803,868,000 287 Research institutes and other activities 53 NUPI, increased by 535000 from NOK 4904000 to NOK 5439000 288 International cooperation actions 72 International basic research organisations are reduced by: 27 802,000 from NOK 338 558 000 to NOK 310 756 000 73 The EU Framework Programme for Research may be transferred, increased by: 8,778 000 from NOK 2 199 232 000 to NOK 2 208 010 000 75 UNESCO quota shall be reduced by: 1 127 000 from NOK 24 341000 to NOK 23 214000 290 Directorate for Integration and Diversity Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 670000 from NOK 241 314 000 to NOK 248 064 000 291 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants 21 Special operating costs, knowledge development, may be transferred, increased by: 1500000 from NOK 44 572 000 to NOK 46 072 000 60 Integration grants, may be transferred, increased by: 144 154,000 from NOK 11 254 978 000 to NOK 11 399 132 000 61 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 456 473,000 from NOK 3329 422 000 to NOK 2 872 949 000 71 Grants to migrant organisations and other voluntary activities are increased by: 2842 000 from NOK 107 860000 to NOK 110 702 000 292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants 60 Grants for training in Norwegian and social skills for adult immigrants are increased by: 15 297 000 from NOK 1 997 096 000 to NOK 2 012 393 000 315 Voluntary objectives 72 Grants for voluntary activities for children and young people are reduced by: 2,580 000 from NOK 6000000 to NOK 3420000 78 Various fixed measures are increased by: 4500000 from NOK 8 350 000 to NOK 12 850000 79 At its disposal, shall be reduced by: 1 920,000 from NOK 14 500000 to NOK 12580000 82 VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities is increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 185000000 to NOK 285000000 87 Grants to X Games, awarded by [[NY]] 3,000,000 322 Building and public spaces 50 Arts in public spaces are reduced by: 20 500000 from NOK 25 440000 to NOK 4 940000 323 Music and performing arts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1 320 000 from NOK 93 477 000 to NOK 92 157 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 59 458 000 to NOK 62 458 000 325 General cultural purposes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3880 000 from NOK 95 887 000 to NOK 92 007 000 21 Research, investigation and special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 16 173 000 to NOK 19 173 000 75 EU Culture and Audiovisual Programme, etc. , may be transmitted, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 47 550000 to NOK 45 550000 78 Various firm measures are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 50 440000 to NOK 45 440000 79 At the disposal, under item 1, may be increased by: 800000 from NOK 7050000 to NOK 7 850000 334 Film and media applications Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 946,000 from NOK 166 653 000 to NOK 168 599 000 50 The Film Fund shall be increased by: 21,000,000 from NOK 489 300000 to NOK 510 300000 73 Regional film bet, may be transferred, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 84 350 000 to NOK 85 350 000 335 Media support 71 Production grants shall be reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 320000000 to NOK 313000000 72 Innovation and development, granted by: [[NY]] 7000000 339 Gambling, lotteries and foundations Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 700000 from NOK 79 724 000 to NOK 79 024 000 340 The Norwegian Church 70 Framework grants to the Norwegian Church shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 2041 100000 to NOK 2042 100000 342 Cemeteries and cemeteries 60 Interest compensation church building, can be transferred, increased by: 16,000,000 from NOK 33 341000 to NOK 49 341000 400 Ministry of Justice and Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 464 234 000 to NOK 465 234 000 23 Special operational expenditure, research, evaluation and knowledge acquisition may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 24 692,000 to NOK 29 692,000 71 Grants to international organisations are increased by: 37 000 from NOK 14 020000 to NOK 14 057000 410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 36 400000 from NOK 2451 320 000 to NOK 2487 720 000 430 Crime prevention services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 29 867 000 from NOK 4 670 787 000 to NOK 4 640 920000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 27 400000 from NOK 23 619 000 to NOK 51 019 000 432 College and educational centre of criminal services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23 067 000 from NOK 242 958000 to NOK 266 025 000 440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 109 750 000 from NOK 17 101 318 000 to NOK 17 211 068 000 25 Return of asylum-seekers with refusals and other non-residents without a legal stay, estimates, is reduced by: 52 800000 from NOK 201 954000 to NOK 149 154000 73 Grants to the EU Border and Visa Fund are increased by: 770000 from NOK 184000000 to NOK 191 700000 444 Police security service [[PST]] Operating costs are increased by: 4 100000 from NOK 861,215000 to NOK 865,315000 445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 252 753 000 to NOK 254 753 000 451 Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 456, entry 1 is increased by 2,900,000 from NOK 757 881000 to NOK 760 781 000 454 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 12 800000 from NOK 687 887 000 to NOK 675 087 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 241,706,000 from NOK 2 513 208 000 to NOK 2 271 502 000 455 Rescue services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 103,978 000 to NOK 106,978 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 8 717 000 to NOK 5 717 000 71 Grants to non-governmental organisations in the rescue services are increased by: 12 100000 from NOK 47 652,000 to NOK 59 752,000 72 Emergency and security services grants shall be reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 109 536 000 to NOK 107 036 000 456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 451, entry 1 is increased by: 47 350 000 from NOK 121 102000 to NOK 168 452 000 21 Special operational expenditure — infrastructure Emergency networks, reduced by: 18 900 000 from NOK 357,001 000 to NOK 338 101 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 34 352 000 to NOK 44 352 000 467 Norwegian Lovtidend Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,476,000 from NOK 4 276 000 to NOK 5 752 000 470 Free legal aid Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 87 147 000 from NOK 687 039 000 to NOK 599 892 000 471 State liability and compensation scheme of the Storting 72 Compensation in the event of criminal prosecution, the allocation of an estimate, shall be increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 59 702,000 to NOK 89 702,000 73 The capital allowance scheme shall be reduced by: 640000 from NOK 31 388 000 to NOK 24 988 000 474 Conflict Board Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 800000 from NOK 118 433 000 to NOK 117 633 000 475 Out-of-court settlement services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 90 223 000 to NOK 103 223 000 480 Svalbard budget 50 Grants shall be increased by: 53,000,000 from NOK 238 370000 to NOK 291,370000 490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 9000000 from NOK 992 010 000 to NOK 983 010 000 21 Special operating costs, asylum receipts, are reduced by: 224 455000 from NOK 1019 623 000 to NOK 795 168 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Special operating costs, interpretation and translation, are reduced by: 10,423,000 from NOK 31 876 000 to NOK 21 453 000 30 Conversions, arrival centres for asylum registration and reception may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 97 900 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 3,600,000 from NOK 117 170000 to NOK 120 770000 60 Grants to host municipalities for asylum recipients shall be reduced by: 22,159,000 from NOK 208 053 000 to NOK 185 894000 70 Social benefits for residents in reception of asylum are reduced by: 30,753,000 from NOK 147 739 000 to NOK 116 986 000 72 Return of asylum seekers with rejection and return of refugees, allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 16 250000 from NOK 103 847,000 to NOK 87 597 000 75 Travel costs for refugees to and from abroad may be carried over, increased by: 726,000 from NOK 11 194 000 to NOK 11 920000 491 Foreigner’s Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 21, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 309 867 000 to NOK 308 867 000 500 Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation 27 Common ICT solution, may be transmitted, granted by: [[NY]] 13,000,000 510 Ministry Security and Service Organisation 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 6,700,000 from NOK 20 087 000 to NOK 26 787 000 530 Construction projects outside the housing arrangement 31 Start of construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 70000000 from NOK 80000000 to NOK 150000000 33 The continuation of construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 70000000 from NOK 1 955000000 to NOK 2 025000000 533 Non-residential property Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2 210 000 from NOK 20 200000 to NOK 22 410000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 35 500000 from NOK 27000000 to NOK 62 500000 540 Directorate for Management and ICT 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 37 052 000 to NOK 40 052 000 542 International ICT Cooperation and Development Programme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 365 000 from NOK 5 757,000 to NOK 5 392 000 560 Composite 50 The combination is increased by: 2000000 from NOK 310 954000 to NOK 312 954000 571 Framework grants to municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are reduced by: 35 800000 from NOK 125 679 688 000 to NOK 125 643 888 000 585 Lease vis-à-vis the Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 500000 from NOK 28 717 000 to NOK 29 217 000 587 Directorate for Building Quality This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Knowledge development and dissemination are reduced by: 53 181,000 from NOK 53 181000 to NOK 0 4 Seriality register, granted by [[NY]] 570000 22 Development of knowledge and dissemination of information, funded by: [[NY]] 48 381,000 601 Exploration, research and related activities 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 800000 from NOK 53,035000 to NOK 52,235000 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 7 100000 from NOK 34 530000 to NOK 27 430000 605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 11 440,000 from NOK 11 494 243 000 to NOK 11 505 683 000 606 Social security rights Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,900,000 from NOK 71 771000 to NOK 74 671000 611 Pensions of state funds Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1 400000 from NOK 18 400000 to NOK 17000000 612 Grants to State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 211,000,000 from NOK 4 566000000 to NOK 4 777000000 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 174000000 to NOK 175000000 613 Employer’s fee for social security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 4000000 to NOK 3000000 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 22000000 to NOK 21000000 614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 26000000 to NOK 28000000 90 Loans, estimates, are increased by: 900 000 000 from NOK 3,40000000 to NOK 4,300000000 616 Group life insurance services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 200000000 to NOK 199000000 634 Labour market measures 77 Permanently organised work may be transferred, increased by: 3,700,000 from NOK 1395 460000 to NOK 1399 160 000 635 Wages and salaries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 19000000 to NOK 20000000 640 Labour Inspectorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,750,000 from NOK 619 769 000 to NOK 623 519 000 660 War Pension 70 Grants, military, allocation of estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 70000000 to NOK 69000000 71 Grants, civil, estimates, are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 184000000 to NOK 180000000 664 Seafarer pension scheme 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 47000000 to NOK 44000000 666 Retirement contract [[AFP]] Grants, estimates, are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 220000000 to NOK 2 210000000 701 E-health, health records, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 1350000 from NOK 250 933 000 to NOK 237 433 000 710 Vaccines, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 45 900 000 from NOK 270 107 000 to NOK 316 007 000 714 Public health 70 Drug action, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under item 21, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 121 941 000 to NOK 122 941 000 732 Regional health establishments 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 19 587 000 to NOK 18 587 000 70 Specific grants, may be carried over, may be used under headings 72, 73, 74 and 75, increased by: 235,000,000 from NOK 700 607 000 to NOK 935 607 000 72 Basic appropriations Health south-east RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 652 800000 from NOK 51 985 750000 to NOK 51 332 950000 73 Basic appropriations Health West RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 230 100000 from NOK 18 327 061 000 to NOK 18 096 961000 74 Basic appropriations Health Middle Norway RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 174 100000 from NOK 13 865 726 000 to NOK 13 691 626 000 75 Basic appropriations Health North RHF, may be carried over, reduced by: 155 800000 from NOK 12 403 447 000 to NOK 12 247 647 000 77 Laboratory and radiological studies, estimates, are reduced by: 70000000 from NOK 3 129 988 000 to NOK 3 059 988 000 80 VAT compensation, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 28 200000 from NOK 6 414 149 000 to NOK 6 385 949 000 86 Operating credits shall be increased by: 500,000 from NOK 157000000 to NOK 657000000 733 Habilitation and rehabilitation services 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 79, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 14 749 000 to NOK 16 749 000 72 Purchases of training, etc. , may be transmitted, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 2812000 to NOK 1812000 79 Other grants, may be used under item 21, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 6 162000 to NOK 7 162000 740 Directorate for Health Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,700,000 from NOK 1 172 992,000 to NOK 1 169 292 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 12,000,000 from NOK 30 576 000 to NOK 18 576 000 745 Public health institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 39 600 000 from NOK 1059 233 000 to NOK 1019 633 000 746 National Agency for Medicinal Products Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 10,190,000 from NOK 296 510000 to NOK 286 320 000 761 Nursing services 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 79, increased by: 14 500000 from NOK 133,796 000 to NOK 148,296 000 63 Investment grants may be transferred, increased by: 59 300000 from NOK 4038 857,000 to NOK 4098 157 000 64 Compensation for interest and deductions shall be increased by: 53 300000 from NOK 834 500000 to NOK 887 800000 65 Trials of state funding of care services, estimates, are increased by: 90 000 000 from NOK 1274 183 000 to NOK 1364 183 000 75 Other competence measures are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 11 314 000 to NOK 10 814 000 762 Primary Health Service 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 136 527 000 to NOK 129 527 000 61 Prison health services are increased by: 2,300,000 from NOK 172 418 000 to NOK 174 718 000 63 General medical services are increased by: 49,000,000 from NOK 94,672 000 to NOK 143,672 000 64 Escalation plan habilitation and rehabilitation is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 91 736 000 to NOK 89 736 000 765 Psychiatric and drug services 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 72, increased by: 43,000,000 from NOK 103 867 000 to NOK 146 867 000 71 Users and relatives, may be transferred, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 154 893 000 to NOK 155 893 000 72 Voluntary work, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under entry 21, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 348 632 000 to NOK 346 632 000 780 Research 50 Norwegian Research Council, etc. , increased by: 1000000 from NOK 330 624 000 to NOK 331 624 000 783 Personnel 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 79, increased by: 12 800000 from NOK 39 783 000 to NOK 52 583 000 800 Ministry of Children and Gender Equality 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 145000 from NOK 9 918 000 to NOK 10 063 000 844 Cash support 70 Grants, estimates, are increased by: 37 820,000 from NOK 1752 180000 to NOK 1790000 845 Child-rescue 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 140,000,000 from NOK 15 070 000 to NOK 14 930000 867 Secretariat of the Market Council and Consumer Complaints Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 300000 from NOK 13 520000 to NOK 13 820000 868 Consumer supervision Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 300000 from NOK 27 171000 to NOK 26 871000 871 Equality and non-discrimination 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under heading 70, increased by: 2,400,000 from NOK 11 592 000 to NOK 13 992 000 900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 11 200000 from NOK 52 475000 to NOK 41 275 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Safe management of Norwegian nuclear waste and installations, can be transferred, reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 58000000 to NOK 53000000 31 Environmental measures Svea and Lunckeberg may be transferred, increased by: 26,000,000 from NOK 141000000 to NOK 167000000 71 Environmental action Raufoss is increased by: 4500000 from NOK 620000 to NOK 10 700 000 75 Grants to specific projects may be transferred, increased by: 4,400,000 from NOK 8 800000 to NOK 13 200000 79 Grants to Mechatronics Innovation Lab, awarded by [[NY]] 41,000,000 83 Grants to the Centre for the Marine and Arctic Issues, awarded by [[NY]] 10000000 902 Adjusters Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,400,000 from NOK 123,185000 to NOK 125,585000 904 The Brønn Island Registers This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Transferability of the ALTIN solution may be increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 274 418 000 to NOK 324 418 000 906 Directorate for Mineral Management with the Bergmeister for Svalbard 31 Environmental measures The loop, can be transmitted, reduced by: 31 500000 from NOK 36 700000 to NOK 520000 907 Norwegian Nuclear Decommissioning 1 Operating costs, granted by: [[NY]] 5000000 909 Measures for employment of seafarers 73 Allowances for employment of seafarers, estimates, are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 230000000 to NOK 2025000000 910 Directorate for Maritime Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23,000,000 from NOK 386 240 000 to NOK 409 240 000 912 General Secretariat for Complaints Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 900000 from NOK 18 195 000 to NOK 19 095 000 917 Directorate for Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7 520,000 from NOK 401 411000 to NOK 408 931000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 67 664 000 to NOK 77 664 000 919 Miscellaneous fishing purposes 60 Grants to municipalities and counties, granted by [[NY]] 2,366,400,000 72 Grants for fishermen’s security training, granted by: [[NY]] 200000 75 Subsidies for nutritional measures in fisheries may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 29 300000 to NOK 34 300000 76 Grants for fisheries research may be transferred, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 22 056 000 to NOK 12 056 000 920 Norwegian Research Council 50 Grants to research are increased by: 35,000,000 from NOK 2 104 176 000 to NOK 2 139 176 000 51 Grants for nuclear research are reduced by: 102 500000 from NOK 102 500000 to NOK 0 922 Space activities 50 Norwegian Space Centre, incremented by 25,000,000 from NOK 68 645000 to NOK 93 645000 70 Quota of European Space Agency [[ESA]] 3,900,000 from NOK 217,310,000 to NOK 221,210 000 71 International space activities are increased by: 750000 from NOK 426 770000 to NOK 434 270 000 923 Marine Research Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 7,480,000 from NOK 613 693 000 to NOK 606 213 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 156 808000 to NOK 161 808000 924 International cooperation and development programmes 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 13 300000 from NOK 29 520000 to NOK 16 220 000 926 Marine Research Institute, research vessel Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7000000 from NOK 157 771,000 to NOK 164 771000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 44 900 000 from NOK 55000000 to NOK 99 900 000 928 Other marine research and development services 50 Grants to the Veterinary Institute shall be reduced by: 240 000 from NOK 57 787 000 to NOK 57 547 000 929 Institute of Energy Engineering 22 Securing of nuclear installations, granted by: [[NY]] 10000000 51 Grants for nuclear research are granted by: [[NY]] 178,000,000 940 Internationalisation measures 73 Aid for exports of capital goods shall be increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 81000000 to NOK 84000000 950 Management of state ownership 70 Responsible Loans, Andøya Space Center, are granted by: [[NY]] 20,000,000 1100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance – ordinary administrative bodies, may be transferred, can be used under heading 50, increased by: 16 692,000 from NOK 2 720 000 to NOK 19 412000 1115 Food Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 1323 239 000 to NOK 1343 239 000 1136 Knowledge development, etc. 50 Knowledge development, dissemination and preparedness, the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, is reduced by: 1 525000 from NOK 235 465 000 to NOK 233 940000 1137 Research and innovation 50 Research activity, the Norwegian Research Council, is reduced by: 277,000 from NOK 242 306 000 to NOK 242 029 000 51 Basic appropriations, etc., the Norwegian Research Council, are reduced by: 1 183,000 from NOK 187 452 000 to NOK 186 269 000 1149 Value-added and development measures in agriculture 71 Contributions to forestry value added measures may be transferred, reduced by: 23,000,000 from NOK 92 300000 to NOK 69 300000 1161 Authority tasks and sectoral policy tasks on a government basis 75 Grants for supervision in general government are increased by: 2500000 from NOK 10 192,000 to NOK 12 692,000 1300 Ministry of Transport Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,036,000 from NOK 189 999 000 to NOK 192 035 000 74 Grants to the Rescue Company shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 93 500000 to NOK 103 500000 1301 Research and development, etc. 21 Environmental, road safety, etc. , is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 15 968 000 to NOK 13 968 000 50 Transport research, may be transferred, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 167 014000 to NOK 165 014000 1320 State Road Service 23 Operation and maintenance services of highways, roads, road and vehicle traffic control services, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under entry 29, entry 30, entry 31 and entry 72 shall be increased by: 28 500000 from NOK 11 759 844 000 to NOK 11 788 344 000 61 Interest compensation for transport measures in the counties is increased by: 90 800000 from NOK 181,700000 to NOK 272,500000 62 Stairway protection, may be transmitted, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 758 700000 to NOK 808 700000 1352 Railway Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1500000 from NOK 457 458 000 to NOK 458 958 000 1357 Mantena AS 71 Capital injection, may be carried over, granted by: [[NY]] 200000000 1360 Coastal works Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 45, increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 1692 687 000 to NOK 1717 687 000 1370 Postal services 70 Purchases of postal and banking services are increased by: 342,000,000 from NOK 261,700000 to NOK 603,700000 1400 Ministry of Climate and Environment 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 17 210 000 from NOK 84 509 000 to NOK 67 299 000 76 Support for national and international environmental measures may be transferred, reduced by: 13,000,000 from NOK 115 230000 to NOK 102 230000 1411 Species Databases 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under heading 70, increased by: 23 317,000 from NOK 675000 to NOK 29 592,000 50 Species and habitat types, may be transmitted, can be used under headings 21 and 70, reduced by: 16 861,000 from NOK 16 861000 to NOK 0 70 Subsidies to species and habitat types may be transferred, may be used under item 21, increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 11 441000 to NOK 19 441000 1412 Meteorology purposes 70 International cooperation projects are reduced by: 14 873 000 from NOK 166 297 000 to NOK 151 424 000 1420 Directorate for the Environment 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 600 000 from NOK 257 570000 to NOK 256 970000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. State action on the aquatic environment is increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 279 369 000 to NOK 283 369 000 23 Mission and fee-related activities may be transferred, increased by: 1,820,000 from NOK 132 462 000 to NOK 134 282 000 34 State acquisitions, national parks, may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 19 200000 61 Contributions to climate action and adaptation may be transferred, reduced by: 74,000,000 from NOK 153 920000 to NOK 79 920000 69 Cleaning measures, may be carried over, can be used under items 39 and 79, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 96 962 000 to NOK 86 962 000 70 Subsidies for aquatic environmental measures may be transferred, increased by: 3,200,000 from NOK 42 755000 to NOK 45 955000 71 Marine litter, may be transferred, increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 65 290000 to NOK 95 290000 76 Reimbursement schemes, estimates, are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 119 462 000 to NOK 129 462 000 85 Natural information centres may be transferred, increased by: 500000 from NOK 66 114 000 to NOK 66 614 000 1428 Energy conversion, energy and climate technologies 50 Transfer to the Climate and Energy Fund shall be increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 2 720000000 to NOK 2733000000 1429 Riksantikvaren 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 2 100000 from NOK 36,727,000 to NOK 38,827,000 60 Cultural memory work in municipalities is reduced by: 2 100000 from NOK 15 716 000 to NOK 13 616 000 70 Grants to automatically peaced and other archaeological cultural memories may be transferred, increased by: 2500000 from NOK 33 164 000 to NOK 35 664 000 1473 Kings Bay AS 70 Grants shall be increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 21 642 000 to NOK 46 642 000 1600 Ministry of Finance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 372,865000 to NOK 370,865000 1605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 37,000,000 from NOK 457 344 000 to NOK 494 344 000 1610 Customs duties Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 31 100000 from NOK 1487 947 000 to NOK 1519 047 000 1618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 73 850 000 from NOK 5 762 275 000 to NOK 5 836 125 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 8,900,000 from NOK 195 300000 to NOK 204 200000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Major IT projects may be transferred, reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 576 500000 to NOK 536 500000 1620 Statistical Central Bureau Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 564 874 000 to NOK 569 874 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 14 600 000 to NOK 19 600 000 1632 Compensation for VAT 72 Grants to private and non-profit institutions serving households, estimates, are reduced by: 60,000,000 from NOK 2160000000 to NOK 2 10000000 1651 Central government debt, repayments and redemptions 98 Deductions on domestic government debt, estimate appropriations, by [[NY]] 20,000,000 1700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 910000 from NOK 801 119 000 to NOK 810 269 000 71 Transfers to others may be transferred, reduced by: 525000 from NOK 65 234 000 to NOK 64 709 000 78 Norway’s grant to NATO and international operating budgets may be transferred, reduced by: 62 003 000 from NOK 305 523,000 to NOK 243 520000 1720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3353,000 from NOK 9 609 482,000 to NOK 9 612 835000 1723 National safety authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 268 947 000 to NOK 278 947 000 1731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 70 330000 from NOK 5 066 104 000 to NOK 5 136 434 000 1732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 36,417,000 from NOK 4 114 269 000 to NOK 4077 852 000 1733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 203,765000 from NOK 4 936 621 000 to NOK 5 140 386 000 1734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 129 604,000 from NOK 1241,819,000 to NOK 1371,423,000 1735 Intelligence 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 25 369 000 from NOK 1905 510000 to NOK 1930 879 000 1760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1760, entry 45, increased by 45,535,000 from NOK 1587 607 000 to NOK 1633 142 000 44 Joint funded investments, nationally financed shares, may be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 96 331000 to NOK 81 331000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be carried over, may be used under cover. 1761, entry 45 is increased by 28 621,000 from NOK 5 914 782,000 to NOK 5 943 403 000 48 Jointly financed investments, jointly financed, may be transferred, reduced by: 3,816,000 from NOK 71 500000 to NOK 67 684000 1790 Coast Guard Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 87 625000 from NOK 1027 838 000 to NOK 940 213 000 1791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 96/824,000 from NOK 854 745000 to NOK 951 569 000 1792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 757,000 from NOK 1009 909 000 to NOK 1 010 666 000 1800 Ministry of Oil and Energy 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 72, reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 25 946 000 to NOK 20 946 000 1811 Statoil ASA 96 Shares are reduced by: 146,000,000 from NOK 190000000 to NOK 1754000000 1815 Petoro AS 73 State participation in petroleum activities on Icelandic continental shelf may be transferred, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 28 700000 to NOK 18 700000 1820 Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Flow and cutting prevention, may be transmitted, can be used under items 45, 60 and 72, increased by: 35,000,000 from NOK 261 454 000 to NOK 296 454 000 1830 Research and industrial development 70 Grants to Nordic energy research are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 11 300000 to NOK 630000 1840 CO 2 management 50 Research, development and demonstration of CO 2 management are increased by: 40,000,000 from NOK 182 101000 to NOK 222 101000 70 Administration, Gassnova SF, may be transferred, may be used under items 21 and 72, increased by: 31,000,000 from NOK 106 127 000 to NOK 137 127 000 72 Full scale CO 2 handling, can be transferred, can be used under items 21 and 70, increased by: 69,000,000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 89000000 2309 Random expense Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 282 150000 from NOK 4 4 498 022 000 to NOK 4 215 872 000 2410 State Loan Fund for Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 45, increased by: 3,049,000 from NOK 391 399 000 to NOK 394 448 000 50 Appropriations for education grants, estimates, are increased by: 125,015,000 from NOK 6 929 577 000 to NOK 7 054 592 000 70 Training grants, estimates, are increased by: 151 489 000 from NOK 2806 225 000 to NOK 2 957 714 000 71 Other scholarships, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 54 565 000 from NOK 775 837 000 to NOK 721 272 000 72 Interest subsidies, estimates, are increased by: 192,825,000 from NOK 1011 612000 to NOK 1 204 437 000 73 Depreciation, estimate allocation, is reduced by: 7 524 000 from NOK 610 420000 to NOK 602 896 000 74 Loan losses are reduced by: 9 350 000 from NOK 385 550000 to NOK 376 200000 90 Increases in loans and interest payable, estimates are reduced by: 31 194,000 from NOK 27 218,070000 to NOK 27,186,876,000 2412 The Bank of Homes 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 11 263 000 to NOK 10 763 000 2421 Innovation Norway 51 Loss reserves, seed reserves and co-investment funds are increased by: 7 425000 from NOK 37 200000 to NOK 44 625000 53 Risk relief, seed and co-investment funds are increased by: 3,700,000 from NOK 18 800000 to NOK 22 500000 70 Basic costs are reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 167 767 000 to NOK 166 267 000 74 Travel life, profiling and competence may be transferred, increased by: 11 500000 from NOK 535000 to NOK 546 500000 76 Environmental technologies, can be transmitted, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 565 500000 to NOK 555 500000 80 Activities of Svalbard, financed by: [[NY]] 640000 95 Equity, seed and co-investment funds are increased by: 21 200000 from NOK 106 300000 to NOK 127 500000 2445 State-owned buildings 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -4 860 000 000 2 Operating expenditure 2 115 069 000 3 Depreciation 1123 814 000 4 Interest on the capital of the country 86 000 000 5 For investment purposes 1,279 976 000 6 To the Regulatory Fund -150 000 000 Syd -405 141,000 30 Building design, may be transferred, increased by: 143,000,000 from NOK 206 401,000 to NOK 349 401000 31 The start of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, reduced by: 65 000 000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 35000000 32 Design and launch of currant projects may be transferred, increased by: 150000000 from NOK 250000000 to NOK 40000000 2470 General government pension fund 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -664 825 000, statement of estimates 2 Operating expenditure 434 922 000, statement of estimates 3 Depreciation 123 760,000 4 Interest on national capital 1,249 000 5 For investment purposes 75 000 000 6 For regulatory fund 11 691 000 Syd -18 203 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 40 741000 to NOK 90 741000 2530 Parental carcass 70 Birth culls, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 871,000,000 from NOK 20 061000000 to NOK 19 190000000 71 Birth and adoption lump sum estimates are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 625000 to NOK 615000 72 Parental leave allowance, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 490000 to NOK 475000 73 In the event of adoption, the estimates are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 58000000 to NOK 61000000 2541 Day money 70 Appropriations for the day shall be reduced by: 1 738,000,000 from NOK 13 348 000 to NOK 11 610 000 2542 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. 70 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. , estimates are increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 7950000000 to NOK 840000 2620 Social benefits to a lonely mother or father 70 Transitional assistance, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 240,000,000 from NOK 2170000000 to NOK 1930000000 73 Supplementary and school-related social benefits, estimates are increased by: 725000 from NOK 91 275 000 to NOK 92000000 76 Contribution advance shall be reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 745000000 to NOK 725000 2650 Sykepenger 70 Sickness allowance for employees, etc. , estimates are reduced by: 1,250,000,000 from NOK 37 490 000 to NOK 36 290 000 71 Sickness benefits for self-employed persons, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 1490000000 to NOK 1450000000 72 Nursing, training, n.e.c. , estimates are reduced by: 276,000,000 from NOK 1271000000 to NOK 995000000 75 Health care holiday pay, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 60,000,000 from NOK 270000000 to NOK 2 010000000 2651 Clearance of duties 70 Clearance of work, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 1 002,000,000 from NOK 34 812000000 to NOK 33 810000000 71 Supplementary aid, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 27 260 000 from NOK 267 260000 to NOK 240000000 72 Medical statements shall be increased by: 10000000 from NOK 415000000 to NOK 425000 2655 Disability 70 Misappropriation, allocation of estimates, increased by: 870,000,000 from NOK 86 33000000 to NOK 87 200000000 75 Men’s compensation in the event of occupational injury, estimates are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 83000000 to NOK 84000000 2661 Basic and auxiliary aid, aids, etc. 70 Basic aid, estimates, is increased by: 9 130 000 from NOK 1900 870000 to NOK 1910000000 71 Auxiliary services, estimate appropriations, increased by 10,625,000 from NOK 1549 375000 to NOK 1560000000 73 Utilities, etc. in the course of work and training, shall be reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 128000000 to NOK 126000000 74 Supplements to cars are reduced by: 69,875,000 from NOK 809 875000 to NOK 740000 75 Improvements in functionality, assistive devices, are increased by: 158 820,000 from NOK 3211 180000 to NOK 3370000000 76 Improvement of functionality, assistive devices such as services, is reduced by: 4,600,000 from NOK 309 600 000 to NOK 305000000 77 Orthopaedic aids shall be increased by: 66 975,000 from NOK 1533 025 000 to NOK 1 600 000 78 Hearing aids, reduced by: 1 975 000 from NOK 711 975000 to NOK 71000000 2670 Age 70 Basic pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 590,000 from NOK 73 430000 to NOK 72 840000 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 1110,000,000 from NOK 142 030000000 to NOK 140 920000 72 Pensions on income, estimates, are reduced by: 120,000,000 from NOK 1520000000 to NOK 140000 000 73 Special supplements, pension supplements etc. , estimates are increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 6080000000 to NOK 6 180000000 2680 Survivors 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 820000 to NOK 835000 72 Special supplement, estimated appropriation, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 81000000 to NOK 86000000 75 Support for child-care, estimates, is increased by: 100000 from NOK 490000 to NOK 5000000 2686 gravitational assistance 70 gravitational allowances, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 110000 from NOK 190 110000 to NOK 189000000 2711 Specialist health services, etc. 70 Specialist assistance, reduced by: 27 600 000 from NOK 2 007 600 000 to NOK 1 980 000 71 Psychological assistance, reduced by: 560000 from NOK 305 600 000 to NOK 300000 000 72 Dental treatment, reduced by: 1 600 000 from NOK 2 411 600 000 to NOK 2 410 000 76 Private laboratories and X-ray institutes shall be reduced by: 8,200,000 from NOK 998 200000 to NOK 990000000 2751 Medicinal products n.e.c. 70 Medicinal products, reduced by 215 200000 from NOK 10 162 200000 to NOK 9 947 000 71 Medical statements shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 6000000 to NOK 7000000 72 Medical consumables are reduced by: 38 300000 from NOK 2 018 300000 to NOK 1980000000 2752 Reimbursement of self-payment 70 Self-proprietary share cap 1 is increased by: 54 300000 from NOK 5098 200000 to NOK 5 152 500000 71 Self-proprietary cap 2, reduced by: 99 500000 from NOK 1089 500000 to NOK 990000000 2755 Health services in municipalities etc. 62 Remuneration scheme physiotherapists, may be used under heading 71, increased by: 10000000 from NOK 380000000 to NOK 390000000 70 General medical care is reduced by: 88 500000 from NOK 4 996000000 to NOK 4 907 500000 71 Physiotherapy, may be used under heading 62, reduced by: 81 800000 from NOK 161 800000 to NOK 1080000000 72 midwifery, reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 62000000 to NOK 60000000 73 Chiropractor therapy is increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 157000000 to NOK 165000000 75 Logopedic and orthopaedic treatments are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 162000000 to NOK 161000000 2756 Other health services 70 Health services in other EEA countries are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 23000000 to NOK 22000000 71 Health services abroad etc. , is reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 485000000 to NOK 460000 72 Health services to non-residents, etc. , increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 215000000 to NOK 230000000 2790 Other health measures 70 Contributions, reduced by 12 800000 from NOK 247 800000 to NOK 235000000 3041 Size Add User-ID Succeeded Sales revenue is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 8 300000 to NOK 9 300000 3225 Basic training measures 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 11 552,000 from NOK 55 119 000 to NOK 43 567 000 3287 Research institutes and other activities 96 Share capital – CESSDA AS, granted by [[NY]] 50000 3291 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Integration grants for transfer refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 22 975 000 from NOK 197,200000 to NOK 220,175000 2 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 62 092,000 from NOK 113 874 000 to NOK 51 782 000 3292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Norwegian receipt training, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 29 543,000 from NOK 50 505000 to NOK 20 962000 3410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Legal fee, reduced by: 19 800000 from NOK 385 310000 to NOK 365 510000 3440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat 6 Fee — Foreign affairs, reduced by: 3,392,000 from NOK 268 284 000 to NOK 264 892 000 3445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office 2 Reimbursements, granted by [[NY]] 2000000 3456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Subscription income is reduced by: 120000 from NOK 338 696 000 to NOK 337 496 000 2 Reimbursements of operating costs shall be reduced by: 9 250000 from NOK 42 204 000 to NOK 32 954000 3469 Vertegration scheme Add User-ID Succeeded Vergemåls/representative scheme, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 5,430,000 from NOK 9 360 000 to NOK 330000 3490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Return of asylum seekers with a refusal and return for refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 15 440,000 from NOK 115 468 000 to NOK 100 028 000 3 Travel expenses for refugees to and from abroad, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 1,705,000 from NOK 12 445000 to NOK 14 150000 4 Asylum recipients, ODA-approved expenditure, are reduced by: 221 461,000 from NOK 706 714 000 to NOK 485 253 000 3605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Administrative allowances shall be reduced by: 6,310,000 from NOK 14 830000 to NOK 8 520000 6 Fee income for the determination of contributions shall be reduced by: 2,020,000 from NOK 27 720 000 to NOK 25 700 000 3614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Fee income, loans, is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 22000000 to NOK 23000000 90 Repayment of loans shall be reduced by: 1,300,000 from NOK 13 600000000 to NOK 12 300000 000 3616 Group life insurance services Add User-ID Succeeded Premium income is reduced by: 12,000,000 from NOK 118000000 to NOK 106000000 3635 Wages and salaries, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursement of State activities, etc. , is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 12000000 85 Invitation to the payment of outstanding wages and salaries is reduced by: 100000 from NOK 400000 to NOK 300000 3740 Directorate for Health 4 Fee revenue shall be reduced by: 4,700,000 from NOK 42 635000 to NOK 37 935000 5 Health services to non-residents, etc. , is reduced by: 7,373,000 from NOK 69 373 000 to NOK 62 000 000 3746 National Agency for Medicinal Products 4 Registration fee shall be reduced by: 9 520,000 from NOK 90 059 000 to NOK 80 539 000 5 Reimbursement fee shall be reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 3087 000 to NOK 587 000 3855 State administration of child protection 60 Local features are reduced by: 74,000,000 from NOK 1472 039 000 to NOK 1398 039 000 3856 Childcare centre for lone minor asylum seekers 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 76 964 000 from NOK 138 536 000 to NOK 61 572 000 3871 Equality and non-discrimination 1 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 1 400000 3902 Adjusters Add User-ID Succeeded Fee revenue shall be reduced by: 11 500000 from NOK 38 924 000 to NOK 27 424 000 3 Revenue from the sale of services is increased by: 500000 from NOK 16 667 000 to NOK 22 167 000 86 Infringement fee, granted by [[NY]] 60000 3910 Directorate for Maritime Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Charges for ships and mobile appliances in NOR shall be increased by: 35,000,000 from NOK 182 729 000 to NOK 217 729 000 3917 Directorate for Fisheries 13 Income from breeding concessions, granted by: [[NY]] 2864 400,000 3950 Management of state ownership 87 Deposit – guarantee scheme, Export finance ASA, granted by [[NY]] 21 700 000 90 Discounts on loans, Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkompani AS, are granted by [[NY]] 2,700,000 4100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 40 Sale of property, by: [[NY]] 16 692,000 4136 Knowledge development, etc. 30 Husleie, Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, is reduced by: 2,985,000 from NOK 20 643 000 to NOK 17 658 000 4300 Ministry of Transport 96 Shares, by [[NY]] 300000 4322 Svinesund compound AS 90 Deductions from loans shall be increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 75000000 to NOK 90000000 4411 Species Databases 2 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 14,456,000 4420 Directorate for the Environment 4 Fees, the pollution area, shall be increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 38 132 000 to NOK 39 532 000 7 Fees, allowances system, are increased by: 450,000 from NOK 8 077 000 to NOK 8 527 000 4429 Riksantikvaren 2 Reimbursements and miscellaneous income are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 4 506 000 to NOK 2 506 000 9 International missions are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 1277 000 to NOK 3277 000 4605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Economic services are increased by: 37,000,000 from NOK 50 600 000 to NOK 87 600 000 4610 Customs duties 2 Other income is increased by: 1 100000 from NOK 897 000 to NOK 1997 000 4618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursed call and call charges shall be increased by: 18,000,000 from NOK 59000000 to NOK 77000000 7 Fee for binding prior opinions shall be increased by: 1 100000 from NOK 210000 to NOK 350000 89 Infringement fee shall be reduced by: 9000000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 4000000 4720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 94 253 000 from NOK 224 107 000 to NOK 318 360 000 4732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 640000 from NOK 54 174 000 to NOK 47 774 000 4733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 200000 from NOK 107 660000 to NOK 107 860000 4760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 22,293,000 from NOK 30 174 000 to NOK 52 467 000 45 Larger equipment acquisition and maintenance, revenue, granted by [[NY]] 54,792,000 4791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 96/824,000 from NOK 766,460,000 to NOK 863,284000 4792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 8,429 000 from NOK 39 312 000 to NOK 30 883 000 4811 Statoil ASA 96 Dividend shares are reduced by: 146,000,000 from NOK 190000000 to NOK 1754000000 5309 Random income 29 Miscellaneous, incremented by 200000000 from NOK 150000000 to NOK 350000000 5310 State Loan Fund for Education 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 810000 from NOK 23 600 000 to NOK 24 410000 29 Appointment fee shall be reduced by: 1,869,000 from NOK 18 512000 to NOK 16 643 000 89 Pure fees shall be reduced by: 1 208 000 from NOK 104,672 000 to NOK 103,464 000 90 Reduced loans and interest payable are increased by: 64 874 000 from NOK 10 172 117 000 to NOK 10 236 991000 93 Conversion of training loans into scholarships shall be increased by: 295 276 000 from NOK 6 409 778 000 to NOK 6 705 054 000 5325 Innovation Norway 50 Return from a nationwide innovation scheme is increased by: 20,700,000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 40 700 000 85 The repayment of depreciated loans from seed capital funds shall be granted by: [[NY]] 9 400000 91 Returned capital, seed funds, is reduced by: 900000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 9 100000 5341 Deductions on outstanding receivables 98 Deductions on own-account government bonds, granted by: [[NY]] 20,000,000 5351 Transfer from Norway’s Bank 85 Transfer is reduced by: 167 400000 from NOK 14 50000000 to NOK 14 332 600 000 5440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue 153 200000000 2 Operating expenditure -28 300000000 3 Expenses of exploration and field development -2 100000000 4 Depreciation -26 000 000 000 5 Interest on the capital of the country -3 300 000 000 Syd 93 50,000,000 30 Depreciation is increased by: 3,800,000 from NOK 22 200000000 to NOK 26000000 5445 State-owned buildings 39 Provisions for investment purposes are increased by: 150000000 from NOK 129,976 000 to NOK 1279,976 000 5460 Export Credit Guarantee Institute 73 Recovery from the SUS/Baltic system shall be granted by: [[NY]] 32 500000 5470 General government pension fund 30 Provisions for investment purposes are increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 25000000 to NOK 75000000 5491 Depreciation of the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 30 Depreciation is increased by: 19 309,000 from NOK 1,232 865000 to NOK 1252 174 000 5521 Value added tax 70 VAT is increased by: 775,000,000 from NOK 291 50000000 to NOK 292 275000000 5526 Charge on alcohol 70 Charges on alcohol are reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 13 80000000 to NOK 13 793000000 5536 Fee on motor vehicles, etc. 71 One-off fee shall be increased by: 5000000 from NOK 15 935000 to NOK 15 940000 5572 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Health and Welfare 74 Supervisory fee, reduced by: 3770 000 from NOK 3770 000 to NOK 0 5576 Sectoral taxes under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food 72 Hunting and felling fees shall be increased by: 9 763,000 from NOK 90 915000 to NOK 100 678 000 5607 Interest of the housing loan scheme in the State pension fund 80 Interest is increased by: 295,000,000 from NOK 825000 to NOK 1120000000 5611 NSB AS shares 85 Dividends are increased by: 165 000 from NOK 150000000 to NOK 315000000 5612 Interest from the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kullkompani AS 80 Interests granted by: [[NY]] 3,200,000 5617 Interest of the State Loan Fund for Education 80 Interest is increased by: 727 406,000 from NOK 3880 231 000 to NOK 4 607 637 000 5622 Shares in Avinor AS 85 Dividends are increased by: 17 700 000 from NOK 232000000 to NOK 249 700 000 5624 Interest of the Svinesund compound AS 80 Interest is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 4000000 to NOK 3000000 5625 Interest and dividends from Innovation Norway 81 The interest margin, the innovation loan scheme, is increased by: 4,900,000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 24 900 000 85 Dividends, the Low Risk Loan Facility, are increased by: 121,000,000 from NOK 125000000 to NOK 246000000 88 Return of dividends from seed capital funds granted by: [[NY]] 13 100000 5631 Shares in AS Vinmonopolet 85 The surplus share of the country is reduced by: 7 400000 from NOK 70 900 000 to NOK 63 500000 5652 Landskog SF - interest and dividends 80 Interest is reduced by: 600 000 from NOK 630000 to NOK 30 000 85 Dividends are increased by: 34,000,000 from NOK 26000000 to NOK 60000000 5656 Shares in companies under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 85 Dividends are increased by: 3,083,500,000 from NOK 16 962 219 000 to NOK 20 045 719 000 5680 Statnett SF 85 Dividends are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 336000000 to NOK 326000000 5701 Miscellaneous income 71 Reimbursement in the event of occupational injury shall be reduced by: 126 900 000 from NOK 1076 827 000 to NOK 949 927 000 73 Reimbursement by contributors shall be increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 225000000 to NOK 240000000 86 Recovery of errors, increased by: 582,000,000 from NOK 718000000 to NOK 130000000000 87 Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 18,000,000 from NOK 34 600 000 to NOK 16 600 000 88 Assistive Technology Centres, etc. , increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 61000000 to NOK 65000000 5705 Reimbursement of daily allowances 70 Reimbursement of daily allowances, State guarantee in the event of bankruptcy, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 23000000 to NOK 28000000 71 Reimbursement of daily allowances for frontier workers, etc. resided in Norway, reduced by 200000 from NOK 800000 to NOK 600000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e83893	There is a vote on proposal No. 25, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen the country’s power by implementing the decision of the Storting in the treatment of the Land Power Proposition in autumn 2017 that the Army should have a modern tank capacity, primarily in the case of loans or rentals of tanks available as soon as possible, secondary by reaching a modern tank capacity from 2019 through an extensive upgrading of today’s tanks.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e83908	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22-24, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the taxes on products and sugar for the Norwegian food industry, how they are structured and interacting with industry and how they affect consumer behaviour, health, trade effects, investments, innovation, etc., and return to the Storting in an appropriate manner, including with an assessment of a free quota per year. year of use of chocolate and sugar products used by enterprises as raw materials in the manufacture of finished products.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the country’s power by adjusting the financial framework for the long-term defence sector in order to meet the additional costs of this effort on land.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a marine value creation programme in Innovation Norway, with two new research centres for the marine environment, following the model of the FME scheme, to strengthen long-term cooperation between research and business so that we take on new opportunities such as autonomous ships, sustainable feed production, breeding of new species and harvesting further into the food chain.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e83938	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the financing of the adopted nursery standard through a grant of 200 million. SEK from 1 August 2018 to municipalities and private kindergartens. In particular, the grant is directed towards small private and non-profit-making kindergartens which do not receive a grant based on compliance with the Staff Regulations by municipalities. The part of the grant targeted specifically at small private and non-profit kindergartens is continued after 1 January 2019 as a earmarked grant until the norm is reflected in the calculations used for the ordinary grant calculations. Municipal kindergartens shall be compensated from 1 January 2019 through the municipal income system.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e83953	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e83958	Then we have to take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e83970	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a sample to prepare a new NOU for the criminal justice system. The Committee shall propose a concrete and comprehensive plan for the further development of all aspects of criminal justice and assesses the future need for different forms of settlement capacity, including open and closed spaces, freedom of movement and alternative forms of settlement such as electronic control. [[EC]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e83987	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to present a plan on how to ensure that the civilian population’s shelters are updated in line with the new threat picture by the end of 2018.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84004	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen the country’s power by continuing the Second Army Battalion of high configuration [[estimated 88 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84020	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the country’s power by initiating the purchase of six Bell 412 helicopters. The 339 squadron is continued on Bardufoss consisting of nine Bell 412 machines and with helicopter support for the Army as the main task. 720 squad consisting of 15 Bell 412 machines are located at Back with helicopter support for the Special Forces of the Defence as their primary task.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84037	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 18, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to review the Culture idea and to provide an assessment of the organisation and division of tasks to ensure that it complies with Storting’s intentions, in the State budget for 2019.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to add division for tax collection to the Mo i Rana.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84061	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7–14, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to monitor the actual living conditions of the pre- and post-implementation situation, including the consequences of increased gross income for opportunities to receive other public benefits, such as housing support, free legal aid and the impact on the level of equity for different public services.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all manufacturers and importers of plastics are responsible for informing about the type of plastic produced, what is the correct use of the plastic, how the plastic is to be handled and what the consequences will be for nature and society if the plastic is removed. This must be prescribed.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a complete ban on the sale of some disposable plastic articles and, in particular, for the priority of plastic articles such as disposable plates, disposable cutlery, disposable cups, q-tips and suction tubes, where good alternatives are available.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to phase out all unnecessary disposable plastic articles in state establishments.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to pledge all plastic beverage packaging.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased funding for research into the effects of plastic smelting on nature, and alternatives to plastics, in the State budget for 2019.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the waste regulation in such a way as not to include in the calculation of the return share of the packaging of beverages with a pledge in the waste.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to cooperate in pledges between Norway and other Nordic countries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84114	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to continue the Kleivgrend prison division at Arendal prison in Fyresdal.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the cabotage legislation so that a carrier can carry out only up to two cabotage journeys to three today.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure that compulsory car passes on motor vehicles over 7500 kg are linked to the bank account/bank guarantee to ensure that Norwegian toll companies are paid for all such toll passes in Norway.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the country’s power by strengthening the quality of Home Security through real increases in funding for training, exercises and home security equipment.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that when the police print fines and impose penalties on vehicle combinations, this shall be levied on the premises as the Road Service does when they issue charges for congestion, etc.’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84151	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Fortum Oslo Heat starts its pre-project as planned by 1 July 2018 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84167	There is a vote on proposal No. 67, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government of the notified maritime safety report in the autumn of 2018 to assume that the use of recreational craft should not lead to life loss or permanent damage and to propose concrete measures to achieve this objective.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84184	There is a vote on proposal No. 68, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive review of the rules on bankruptcy in order to ensure that the rules on bankruptcy quarantine are effective, that the level of penalties is adapted to the seriousness of the offences and that transparency is ensured both for the consumer and for the authorities.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84201	There is a vote on proposal No. 69, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure the proper operation and maintenance of the air ambulances at each base.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84218	There is a vote on proposal No. 70, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to comply with its request decision No. 324 [[2017-2018]] The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84235	President! The centre party shall also support proposal No. 70.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84240	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84253	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 71 and 73, from Red. Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government in the follow-up to ‘NOU 2018:16: Alert – Values and Protection’ to develop a guide to the municipalities on how to deal with alerts and to assess the possibilities for setting up independent warning councils to deal with alerts and return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the selection to look at the prevention of partner killings is started as soon as possible and that the sample assesses the establishment of a disaster commission for partner killings in Norway that can investigate where it fails before the killings take place and prevent them’. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84275	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84280	The result is that 63 voted against and 38 voted in favour of the Reds’ proposals – and therefore the proposals are not accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. 72, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to provide a detailed overview of the exemption applications from the standard of maintenance in kindergartens monthly from 2018 after its entry into force.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84299	There is a vote on proposal No. 74, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the redundancy in Homeland until the Storting has handled the Riksrevision’s Report on Object Protection in the autumn of 2018.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84316	There is a vote on proposal No. 75, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests amendment of the Motor Vehicle or other means of transport Regulation so that people with developmental disabilities and developmental disturbances with debilitating behaviour who, as a result of their diagnosis, are not able to use ordinary transport for the benefit of group 2 cars.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84333	There is a vote on proposal No. 76 from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Party of Left and Christian. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the budget is requested by the Government as a matter of urgency and, at the latest, in the context of the 2019 budget, assess whether entitlement to car support class 2 should also be granted to people who do not have a highly limited walking function but who, for other reasons such as developmental inhibition with time-consuming behaviour, depend on an organised car.’;» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e84349	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e100075	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e100897	It is votted over A IX. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e100911	It is votted over A XXIII. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e100925	It's votting over A XXX. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e100939	It is votated over other Roman numerals under A.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e101090	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e101103	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e101163	That's right over C.I. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e101177	That's right. It's right over C III. The Workers' Party has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e101193	That's right. It's right over C IV. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the suspension. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e101209	It's over C.V. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e101223	That's right over C VI. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e101236	It's over C VII. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e101250	It shall be weighed over C II, VIII and IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e101264	Case No. 2–30 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 84 to 112. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-15.ana.ud434e101399	Thus, today's map has been processed. Before the meeting is closed, the President will draw the attention of the representatives to the fact that the negotiations of the Grand Duchy will be resumed on Friday 28 September at 9.30 a.m. 13th@item: inlistbox Since this is the last ordinary big meeting before the holiday, the President will take the opportunity to thank all the co-representatives, members of the government, the staff of Storting, the press department and all those who otherwise have their daily work in Stortinget, for good cooperation and wish everyone a really good summer! Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
