ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e33	The representatives Nina Sandberg, Morten Wold, Lise Christoffersen, Vetle Wang Soleim, and Espen Barth Eide, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Steinar Ness, now takes the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Marianne Marthinsen from 2 May onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Zaineb Al-Samarai, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e75	Zaineb Al-Samarai is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e97	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that Trine Skei Grande, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Linda C. Hofstad Helleland will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Kari Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e106	My question goes to the Minister for Gender Equality. Norway has lost its place as a leading country in the world in gender equality, and the legacy of Gro in an equal society has been abandoned. We see that gender equality work is confusing, and not least the government has focused little on regional and local equality work. Regional equality centres are workshops for the development of good gender equality practices, and they combine research and the practical everyday life of people out there where they live in a good way. It takes place through systematic empowerment, it takes place through education, it takes place through work against sex harassment, for example, and it takes place by focusing on the LHBT population in the different regions. In the South, we also have studies dealing with minority women and wage work — as an example of work carried out by regional centres. From being a leading country and a model both for women in Norway and for women and countries around the world, this government has put equality work in reverse. My question to the Council of State is: Why does the Council of State think it is important to cut the regional equality centres, as the government has done every year, at the latest by 1 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e115	I absolutely do not agree with the description that gender equality work in Norway is going in reverse. On the contrary, we experience great recognition for what Norway is doing, not least that we sit in the driver's seat by promoting a parental leave scheme that is one of the world's best to promote equality. The government recently presented a third of the parental leave – one allowance goes to mother, one allowance goes to father, and one allowance is up to the family itself to dispose of. It's because we're concerned with gender equality at home and in the workplace. In these days, the government has plans to set up a sample to look at how we can improve the equality of children and young people who are under pressure from many teams. We're busy looking at how gender role patterns are changing. Internationally, I am about to tell you that in Norway we have a woman as Prime Minister, a woman as Minister of Finance and a woman as Minister of Foreign Affairs, as well as a female Supreme Justice and a female prime minister. Then a lot of people are sitting around the table and peeping, because they don't think what I'm saying is true. In addition to having women in the most powerful positions, we have a government that is systematically promoting gender equality, raising gender equality, whether in minority settings or in the workplace. The Minister of Economic Affairs and I are going to invite you to a top meeting with the business leaders because we think it is too slow to get more women at the top of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e126	Thanks for the answer. In the case of the feces, we can record that the Council of State has moved from the passenger seat – or perhaps one that is holding back the bus that is going – to the driver’s seat, and that’s good. We also record that the government is coming with a new sample, and then we hear the council boasting that equality is going to happen on top. It's fine, that we have elites in Norway, women, who get positions. It is very good that we have government members, state councillors, who are women – and prime minister. That's the full agreement. But the Labour Party proposed, for example: that one for religious religious communities should claim 40 p.m. women, and the government voted down. There is one example of the refusal of action that this government is full of when it comes to equality. But the Council of State did not answer my question: why is it so important to cut the regional equality centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e133	I don't think the only solution to succeed even more than what we do in equality is whether or not equality centres get one million more or less. When it comes to the proposal to reduce freedom of belief in Norway, I am very happy that several parties voted against it, also because we see that it does not have such a great effect. The Labour Party's proposal is to transfer women into a government that really only addresses administrative issues, and does not have the power of religious communities. In the religious communities, allowances cannot be made in the religious selection itself, which actually practices guidelines related to faith. I have much more faith in what is done in South Africa, where the representative Henriksen is from, where we have seen Muslim women who have stood up, campaigned and asked to get into the regimes where the exercise of faith is taking place. They've done it, they've done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e138	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Kari Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e143	We record that for this government, everyone else is going to do the job, while they're just going to talk about how important it is. It's a familiar trace of this government going in. Just to clarify some misunderstandings: our proposal is not about reducing the freedom of belief in any way. Our proposal is about giving strong signals in administrative positions that women should be part of this. We've actually done the same with the Norwegian Church, and they've handled this in a very good way. We did not demand 40 p.m., but there was a clear expectation when the Church was released that there would be democratic elections that would reflect the Norwegian society. But we can record that the state council believes it's good enough no longer to be world leaders. I'm trying for the third time: why is it important to cut regional equality centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e152	It's important to do a lot more than strengthen the equality centres by one million. We have to work in many fields. That's why I'm glad that women aren't just going to be good enough to sit on boards dealing with administrative issues, we're going to get women into the governments where power is. That's why I hope more people do like the women from South Africa and get space on the main boards. Then, of course, I disagree with the Labour Party, which believes that politicians can solve all the problems facing our society, that only politicians can ensure equality. It's not that. Now we've done a lot of work using the law when it comes to equality in business, but if we don't get business with us, that they're with themselves and want to appear to be modern and dynamic, with a variety of management where women have room, we're not going to get it. That's why I believe in the initiative that the Minister of Industry and I are going to take now and have dialogue with... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e159	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e164	Yesterday it was May 1st, and on many of the markings throughout the country there was a demand for equal pay one of the slogans, among others. in Sarpsborg and Fredrikstad, where I myself went. That's an important requirement, because yet it's not that we have equal pay for equal work in this country. For every hundred bills a man earns, women earn on average only $88, and we never reach real equality before women become as economically independent as men. There is no lack of explanation either. Norway has one of Europe’s sexiest labour markets. 12.5 pst. of all working men working part-time, towards a total of 36,8 pst. by the women. So what is missing is clearly political will, because the Council of State of Hofstad Greece has repeatedly gone out and asked employers, women and men, to step up, without taking action itself. What about the government's increasing gender equality policy, and for example. establish the right to complete posts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e172	We have strengthened our policy – and we also see that in the field of equality – in our platform. Now we see that never has the proportion of women with part-time been lower. We see that we have 31,000 more female leaders now, during our reign. We know that we're going to get more full-time jobs and also change the gender-based labour market we have, we have to start with education. We have to start already in kindergarten, and that's why I have a good relationship with the Minister of Knowledge on how we can start early to influence children's educational choices – that it's not just for boys to become bosses and girls to get into the health sector. That is why we are also making nationwide projects about girls in technology and men in health. We think we need to start early in school to change the gender-based labour market that we have in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e177	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e182	It almost seemed as if the Minister for Equal Opportunities felt it was entirely unproblematic to cut the appropriations for the equality centres. I hope, however, that the Minister for Equal Opportunities recognises the important work that these centres are actually doing. But that was not my question. My question is that there are many groups that don't seem to be equal in Norwegian society. One group is the disabled. I have a general question: how does the government actually work to ensure more equality for people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e189	I am very pleased with the question, because the government is developing a strategy for more equality for people with disabilities. It's after a call from Stortinget, a follow-up by a NOU on how we can achieve more equality in that field. We recently had a meeting with the parties and with the organisations to see how we will jointly manage to achieve more equality. For us, it is important to involve the actors in this work. I know that the Christian People's Party has a very strong commitment in this field. I am pleased to present a strategy with concrete measures to achieve more equality for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e194	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e199	In the magazine's magazine on April 14th, we get the story of the three girls who became addicted and actively promoted while they were under the care of child protection. Two of the girls are already dead – 17 and 18 years old. The stories are unbearable, but unfortunately not unique. Repeated oversight cases reveal that serious systemic failure occurs in Norwegian child protection. Too many children under child protection experience massive movements, unsolicited measures, introduction to intoxication, unnecessary and repeated coercion, lack of health care and documented unresponsiveness in the service. In recent years, there have been several deaths in cases where child protection has been involved. The Glassienta case was a wake-up call. Jenta was deprived of child protection, police, health services and the supervisory authorities, and the investigation by the county officials showed massive crimes and that the child had not received the help she was entitled to. The same applies in the case of the 15-year-old girl who committed murder at the Southlands Center. Vulnerable children under the care of child protection also experience too often being moved far away from their own network and community. The importance of capacity utilisation in institutions is then recognised as more important than the best of the child. The Riksrevision has recently demonstrated a lack of safety in emergency placement of children. There are not enough public places and it is difficult to find shelter in line with the needs of the child. A survey carried out by VG also shows that as many as one of four foster children do not receive the statutory number of supervision four times a year. The working method of child protection is also criticised, such as the use of the Kvello model by children's protection and so-called trauma-conscious care. The aim of the Child Protection Act is to ensure that children and young people living under conditions that could harm their health and development receive the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner and to contribute to the secure development of children and young people. Too many boys and girls don't experience it. Does the Council of State see the seriousness of the situation that has arisen under the blue-blue? Is she responsible for ensuring that all children have safe breeding conditions, including children under the care of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e208	What the representative is dealing with here are serious issues, and these are very sad issues. First of all, it makes a deep impression on me – the stories we get portrayed by children who have even lost their lives under the care of child protection. I want to assure the representative that I am doing everything I can to make sure that we go through this to see what we can learn, what we can do better, where the system fails. I am pleased that we have now introduced a child protection reform, in which we give municipalities increased financial responsibility, but also increased freedom to choose the best offer, what they think will be an answer to the need of individual children. I'm glad we've had a massive effort on child protection lately. Only from 2013 to 2016 have we increased the number of posts in municipal child protection by 19 pst. – Nearly 1000 jobs. I am pleased that we have now launched a large-scale professional engagement, which is about everything from education to how child protection workers who are out there and meet the child and the parents are able to make the best possible offer. All of this together, I'm sure that I'm going to give us better child protection, better help for the most vulnerable children, which we're going to help. We're going to have a safety net that catches up early, that helps prevent and deploy relief measures, so that serious incidents don't happen. We're going to give the help that all of these vulnerable children need.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e215	I'm not so calm, I am. Young and children are now dying on the minister's watch. And in the case of the two girls who ran and prostituted in child protection, the minister hasn't been on the field yet, even though we're a lot of people who have wanted it. People are also calling for much longer educational courses in the field of child protection and much more empowerment among employees than is actually provided with the appropriations to which the minister referred. Hex and many demanding tasks also make child protection work with recruitment, which was pointed to by the NRK on Monday at the latest. Students are now hesitating to start in a profession that is constantly getting ugly scratches in the paint. So it is almost obvious that the focus on saving money because there is not enough money has negatively affected development. Does the Minister really understand the seriousness of the situation of child protection and will the Minister ensure that the child protection sector will in future receive the resources, the right measures, the proper care and the adequate training and enhancement of competences it needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e224	Yes, I can assure the representative that I do. That is why I am pleased that many measures have been put in place and major changes that I am sure will produce results during this government. It's not just that we have increased resources strongly in the last four years; it's also about how we increase competence, how we strengthen supervision, and how we go much more in and control the services that children get. As far as education is concerned, we are currently considering how to set up a Master's degree, if any. We are sure that giving the amazing employees who work in child protection, who go to work every day to help these children, thorough knowledge and competence to do the best possible job, is crucial to success.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e231	It opens for follow-up questions - first Kjersti Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e236	Based on the issues that have arisen in the media, it is incomprehensible that this has not got any greater political attention. We get supervisory messages about children who experience too many movements, are introduced to drug use, are put on a one-stop shop, are receiving missing health care and are experiencing unnecessary forced use. In the last case from Dagbladet, Bufetat has now asked the County Council to open its own institution in Vestlundvejen. But when you read the reason for this, it says that it is “necessary to respond to claims from anonymous sources in the newspaper”. There are two girls who are dead. Does the Council of State think that one is mild enough in the services in relation to the seriousness of the situation, or will the Council of State take other measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e242	Of course, I'm concerned that the Child Welfare Service should be humble about events, and especially when there are such serious incidents like this, we need to do what we can. We have to turn every rock to see what we can learn, and what we have to change to make sure that things like this don't happen. I also respect the need to review the facts of the matter. It is important for the employees who have been there and tried to do their very best. These are children with complex and complex challenges. I have great faith that now two centres that provide both psychiatric treatment and care for these children at one and the same time are important, because it has been for too long that mental health protection and child protection have not worked well enough together. I think it will be even more important in the future to have close cooperation between the two sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e249	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e254	The exchange of lines here has highlighted the need for competence. I record that in this case too, the government says that much is important, while we see that the large money goes to others, for example. to maintain tax cuts for those who already have a lot of money. As far as the reform of competences is concerned, the government boasts that they have spent 80 million dollars. kr on the table. As we go closer to it, we see that there are 35 million fresh people, of whom 15 million are taken from school to child protection, from ideal mother-child measures and from recruitment to foster homes. All three are measures that are important for good care and a good everyday life for orphans. What is the background to precisely these measures being used as a balancing point in the reform of competences?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e261	There is not a balancing item, on the contrary, this is set off now because there is a need for a level of competence. It is because, over many, many years — even under the red-green regime — there was almost a lack of attention to give our competent child-restraint staff the opportunity to do the best possible job, namely through competence, security and more knowledge of what these very difficult challenges entail. There has been a rare effort on child protection in the last four years. Now it's important to us that we do what we can to prevent such serious events from happening. It is therefore important that we step in early action, and the municipalities are now given the responsibility to step in with relief measures and to prevent early action. This should lead to more people being able to get help in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e268	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e273	A number of recent news issues have revealed major challenges in the area of child protection, different treatment in different municipalities and too few employees. The Landsrådet Hofstad Helleland, in its replies, has transferred the blame to small municipalities with too few employees. I mean, it's double-moral. Governments are pushing blame on small municipalities while the government has canceled the child-restraint promise from the red-green government. In the red-green years, 890 more municipal child protection posts were created by the earmarked funds alone. Now, in the period 2015-2018, there were only 120 new posts, an average of 40 posts per year, from the state transfers. In the opposition, Greece, the Council of State, also called for no child protection services to have fewer than five employees. We've seen that a little bit more in position. Can the Council of State admit that the government is not doing enough for the child-restraint children today, and are in favour of a new earmarked child-restraint lift for several employees in both small and large municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e280	No, I can't admit that. I am very happy that SV keeps taking quotes from me when I sat on the family committee at Stortinget, when SV ran the department. It shows how serious the situation in child protection was while SV and the red-green crashed. Now we've had some years where we've strengthened child protection considerably. Child protection provides assistance to many more children than ever before. We see that many of the cases are more complex than ever, and therefore we have to work widely to manage to reach and help the families that are not able to care for their children. I am pleased that a systematic effort has been put in place to improve prevention work in the field of child protection, but we also need to improve control, supervision and tailoring for the individual child.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e287	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e292	Over several years, there has been a significant increase in the proportion of commercial child protection actors, while non-profit actors in child protection feel that it is becoming increasingly difficult for them to make good offers under the conditions offered. This has resulted in a significant decrease in the total proportion of childcare services operated under non-profit-making conditions, and today there is only about 20 pst. of the non-profit institutions serving areas. Over a few decades, this has been a dramatic reduction, not least in view of the fact that it was the non-profit sector that was crucial for the establishment of the first offers in this area. My question is, how will the Council of State ensure that there will also be room for the non-profit sector in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e297	There is no doubt that we have strengthened child protection strongly in recent years in view of the number of employees. But we are also concerned that we should have a variety of offers. The disclosure of premises in sheltered bids for ideals has been one of the measures. The government is busy that we're going to have government, we're going to have ideals, and we're going to have commercials. It's because we believe that the most important thing is to make an offer tailored to the individual child, and we can only do that if we have a variety of offers. I feel that the ideal actors have good measures to offer a wide range of these children, and I am very concerned that they will play a very important role in the overall child protection service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e302	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e308	My question goes to Ketil Solvik-Olsen. The transport sector is threatened by liberalisation and privatisation, in particular with regard to rail and freight transport. Siv Jensen said something wise about this at his national meeting: We are opposed to unfair competition, as when foreign carriers send underpaid drivers with miserable cars and take the jobs from Norwegian drivers. It's not just creating challenges, it's ruining our economy, it's ruining our working life, and it's road-hazardous on Norwegian roads. That, dear country meeting, we're going to stop, she said. It's rare I agree with Siv Jensen. The question is what the Council of State and the Government intend to do about this. The European Commission has presented a revision of the legislation on non-resident carriers, which will in practice mean a total release and deterioration of the current system in terms of both the competitive situation of Norwegian drivers, control challenges and security. That's what the government and the Progress Party say they're against. My questions are: Can the Council of State promise that Norway will apply the right of reservation if the final EU legislation introduces liberalisation of current cabotage legislation? What action will the government take nationally to stop social dumping on our roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e323	I thank you for the question. It's a theme that has been very committed to me – when I put in opposition, and when I'm now the Council of State. Ensuring good competitive conditions that ensure that the best player wins – not the one who cheats on rules or underpays his employees – is an important premise in a free market. It's something we've seen that hasn't worked well enough, that didn't work well before, and that's why we went to the choice to change. One of the first things we did after joining in 2013 was to ensure increased allocation for roadside control. A more or less quadrupling of the control activity means that several of those driving a bad vehicle are stopped and fined. We introduced wheel locks in order to prevent cars from moving on when the check was done, and we have become much better at collecting the fines that have been imposed. Our tour around the country, where we meet many of the inspectors, confirms that this has produced results. Especially in North Norway, they say that the number of Russian low-standard vehicle combinations has fallen sharply since the checks went up. The imposition of winter tyres on all wheels of the combination is something that the government introduced. During the previous government, it was introduced at the very end that one should have it on a towing vehicle, but not on a trailer. We said that it is quite natural that one has it on the trailer too – again a grip that has made us get a lot of things. We have been working towards the EU in terms of the need to have winter driving characteristics. It looks like we're getting through. And we see that the EU has proposed changes to the cabotage rules. We have said that we are against it. We have a team from other Western European countries, eight to nine countries, in what is called the Road Alliance. I have plans to go to the next meeting, which is over the coming month, just to see how together we can ensure that it is not a liberalisation of cabotage legislation, but that it is better controlled. What becomes the outcome, and which then determines how we should behave, we're not yet familiar with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e334	I thank you for your answer. But I repeat the question: can the Council of States guarantee that if the Commission's proposals remain standing, he will put a foot down? Even with today's legislation, it is clear that something needs to be done. There's about a third of all trailers carrying foreign signs on Norwegian roads. Could the Council of State agree on two concrete proposals – first to decriminalise violations of the cabotage code, so that those who control can actually print fines rather than pass the matter on to the police and lawyers, who often file the case – we have seen many examples of this – and then propose to secure digitised shipping letters – where there is a loophole. So you're sitting with a ballpoint pen and a sheet in the car and you can print a shipping note. Digitizing will make cheating more difficult. The Government has proposed to do so on a voluntary basis in its proposal for implementation of the eCMR Code. Why not make this mandatory in order to prevent unprofessional operators from escaping?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e341	To take the last one first: Digital shipping letters are something I'm in favour of. That is why the government has now sent to the hearing to introduce it. But we want this to be a system that works before you claim it, so you don't put a bunch of today's legitimate, serious actors on the sideline with a system that doesn't work. But that's the direction we're going in – no doubt, and there's the government. As to what will be the outcome of the EU negotiations, we need to see the totality of this. Some of this EU has proposed, remained standing, and other things are being changed. Then we have to look at the sum of this. But as it is today, I am critical and opposed, and that is precisely why we are also working against our friends in Western Europe to ensure that these rules are not implemented. It is incredibly important that we can ensure that Norwegian youth and Norwegian entrepreneurs will invest in that type of business, in vehicles, in education, in taking driving licences – we see that to some extent we succeed. There is still a job to do, but there is no need to want to go back to what it has been. Today's government is going very clearly in the direction of securing this market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e350	There will be follow-up questions – first Arne Nävra.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e355	I take his word from the council and believe in his will. But I also record that he does not dare to say that he will guarantee that he will put his foot down if the Commission's proposal remains standing. The EU’s Part 2 Mobility Package also proposes changes to bus and coach transport. To date, the publication of collective agreements has been valid for the procurement of public bus services. As far as I can see, as well as the Norwegian Transport Workers' Association, the new proposal from the Commission will mean that it will apply to all urban buses and perhaps express buses and not just buses. The proposal gives the foreign companies access to all terminals, as far as we can see. And it is proposed to establish an independent impartial supervisory body for this – not under popular control. In many ways, then, there is a release, an extensive liberalisation of concerns in the Transport Workers' Union. Does the Council agree that there is cause for concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e364	As I have now said in two answers: precisely because we do not agree with what the EU has proposed, we are fighting against it. We ally ourselves with others to make changes. Then it's a little early already to conclude on how to relate to something we don't know what is going to be, but that we're working to have good control of. We have already increased control activities along the roads. We have tightened up legislation that has not been tightened up before. We work well with the industry just to make sure that this is a serious industry that you can live off and earn money on, and should not be an industry where you are out of competition by unprofessional actors. This applies to both freight and bus services. We opened a few years ago what we call the Road Transport Forum, where we sit down with NHO, with the NLF, with the Norwegian Transport Workers' Association and the Professional Transport Association, just to hear all the parties – both those who invest in this, and those who have this as their job, because we want to ensure that this is a good industry to be in. We're going to keep doing that, and we're going to accept all of the recordings that the Storting has in this work. But I find that at our last meeting in the road transport forum, everyone agreed that the position of the government was the right one.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e373	Arne Nävra – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e378	I thank you again for the answer, but I note that the Council of State cannot guarantee to put its foot down. I also record that Solvik-Olsen has a completely different handling power in another field, which is related, namely the railway. This also applies to privatisation. Governments will therefore go beyond implementing EU legislation in that sector. He will now privatise operations and maintenance on the Eastfold Railway – the path with perhaps the biggest problems today. The employees' representatives are strongly opposed and believe that it will not provide better maintenance, but also disintegrate trade unions and pulverise responsibility. Nevertheless, Solvik-Olsen wants to run on in an ideological belief in privatisation. What is the professional basis of the Council of State for improving the maintenance of the tender process, and will he carry out the privatisation without taking it to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e385	I think it's important for everyone who listens, that it's important to remember that it's the state that owns the railway, that controls the railway and that it's going to operate what's happening on the railway. Getting private actors to deliver services into the system is actually something also the Socialist Left Party was for when they sat down and steered. Under the red-green government, private operators provided good services, private operators cleaned the train sets, and private operators built and operated the railway. It was still the state that owned it. We're doing it a little bit larger. But just as all of our roads are built by private contractors and maintained by private contractors, I think everyone who runs on the roads sees that they are not privatized. It's a public common good that we all use, and that we pay for through the tax money, and that we still sit and rule. The fact that Road Cover is involved in maintaining some of our roads does not mean that Road Cover owns the road and can determine who is driving it. On the railway, it is important to have control over who is on the track. But there's still the state that controls that access, not private.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e392	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e398	I would like to return to the main question, whether the EU mobility package and cabotage legislation as a result of it, which, if implemented as proposed by the European Commission, will have dramatic consequences for the Norwegian transport industry, almost freely ahead of so-called cabotage driving in Norway. If we think there are a lot of foreign trucks on Norwegian roads today, it's only a little bit less than what's going to happen if the legislation gets as proposed. Here the truck drivers, Norwegian Transport Workers' Association, the Professional Traffic Association and others in the trade movement are fully in agreement – this will have dramatic consequences. I agree with the Minister for Transport, we have to work what we can to ensure that the legislation does not become as proposed. My question is: how is the matter now in the EU? What is the status of work, how is progress, and when can we expect a clarification?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e403	I'm glad that all parties, I think, in this room really support the position taken by the government, which is also well clarified with both the ownership of the transport industry and not least among those who work and are employed as carriers. In the election campaign, NLF was around in many places and campaigned for this, and I think it was also clear from all the parties that we agreed that we had to fight together here. As far as progress in the EU is concerned, simply because we are not a member of the EU, we do not have access and transparency to all the processes that are taking place. But we have allied ourselves through what is called the Road Alliance, which consists of eight to nine different countries with some common interests, namely not to liberalize or tighten up. We're going to go down there -- probably now in May, if not early in June. I'm going to be with myself, just to discuss with my colleagues to see how we move on in this and manage to get a unified position, so that we get an even greater impact when the European Parliament and others are going to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e410	Siv Mossleth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e415	Kabotage is actually illegal in Norway, but also here the EEA legislation goes ahead of Norwegian law, and we have introduced exemptions. The centre party will give priority to a serious Norwegian transport industry. We have proposed in Stortinget to tighten up the possibility of cabotage driving to defuse low-paid drivers with little experience from Norwegian roads. Life and health are important to us, and we have heard about the great risk there is of serious accidents involving foreign trucks. The Council of State says he won't liberalize the transport industry. It sounds a little hollow to me when a Progress Party State Council says this, when liberalisation is the fundamental political project of the Advance Party. Why has the Progress Party not agreed to our proposal to reduce today's cabotage traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e422	First of all, it's a little strange to hear about someone privatizing the transport industry. So it's private actors who are already operating...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e427	Liberalise. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e432	I'm trying to have a comment, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e437	It is the Council of State that now has the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e442	And so it's not that much to liberalize within the market that exists in Norway. But then there's the competition situation up against the foreign actors coming in here, and that's what cabotage is all about. Then it's worth reminding the Center Party that the Center Party didn't tighten up on this for the eight years they themselves ran, and our government hasn't liberalized in this area. It's a little strange to get any idea of bad motives from a party that didn't do anything in this area, but where under our government we've tightened up controls, tightened rules, tightened up follow-up – all that we've been doing for eight years and tried to get the Center Party to do, but for which they didn't raise a lot of fingers. It is not enough to say that a winter tyre was given on a towing vehicle on trucks, when there was so much else that one should have done in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e447	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e452	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. A few days ago I spoke to a mother who had born a premature child, and it was recommended that the child should wait with kindergarten start, over a year. She expressed great joy in saying that we have cash support as an opportunity for them, which enabled those who are parents to be a little longer at home with the child, as was also recommended by the health care service. That's what this is about, that parents, who know their children, can have this choice, the opportunity to be at home a little bit longer. But if she had lived with someone who hasn't lived in Norway for more than five years, that family wouldn't have had this opportunity. As unfair and so arbitrary, this five-year requirement of living, which the government, with the good support of the Workers' Party, has introduced for people from outside the EEA territory. A five-year living requirement has introduced double standards that target a small group of immigrants and their children, and the consequence is that a group of parents where one has been a member of the Norwegian population throughout their lives, but found love beyond the borders of the country, are deprived of the opportunity to receive cash support so that they can be a little more at home with their child. Does the Council of State really think this is a fair arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e464	First, I want to say that I am very happy that the Christian People's Party is with the government to want freedom of choice and flexibility for families, because we know that children are different and parents are different, and therefore there is a need for different solutions and flexibility for each. There is no doubt that there is strong resistance to the cash support. One of the reasons why five years of living requirements were proposed was precisely to help more newly arrived immigrants get to work quickly, that several parents get into work, so that the children get into kindergarten and learn Norwegian. Then I see that this system has some unintended consequences, and I see that there are single examples that are the result of the system we're introducing, which is unfortunate. That's why I support the representative and the Christian People's Party that it's important to evaluate this system, and where the argument for faster integration is not as relevant, we actually have to go in and see if we can make exceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e473	I am very pleased that the government will look at the possibility of exceptions. This means that the government also sees that the scheme that has been put in place has some unintended consequences for those who were not supposed to be affected. Then I just want to stress that the cash support was never meant to be an integration or equality measure. It was meant to be a family arrangement that strengthens parental freedom of choice. That's how it's worked, and that's how it works for a lot of people today. What we know is that there are a number of other factors that affect the lack of links between migrant women and the labour market. Most of these factors can be grouped under the categories ‘culture’ and ‘competence’. Low language skills and low levels of education are among the main challenges in terms of competence, while gender and family understanding are part of the culture, which means that many immigrant women take primary responsibility for child care. Does the government – the Council of State – mean that only those women are deprived of the right to cash support, do they automatically enter the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e482	No, the government certainly does not. This is about a lot of things. It is interesting to see also the reasons why many women and immigrant mothers do not get out of work. Is that Norwegian training? Are there challenges to getting out of work, or can it also be that it is negative social, which prevents it – that in some cultures it is the responsibility of the woman to be at home and take responsibility for the family? These are things that the government wants to see more, especially when we know that it's in immigrant families that child poverty is increasing. We're busy with families with persistent low incomes, that we have to get these parents into work. And when many of these are immigrant mothers, we now have to look at what we can actually do to get to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e489	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e494	Now that we are on the cash support track, I need to take up another thing as well. We were very pleased that we had a flexible cash support in the budget for the current year. That gives everyone who chooses to have children 20 pst., 40 pst., 60 pst. or 80 pst. in kindergarten, entitled to cash support for the time when the child is at home with the parents. When the proposition comes to Stortinget, we see that the department has made the flexible cash support available for the least possible by calculating eight and a half hours as 100 pst., when it is actually such that in most kindergartens the day lasts for nine and a half hours. This means that all one-year-olds who are 33 hours or more in kindergarten are not entitled to the flexible cash support, while in reality the ceiling should be 36 hours. So I'm going to ask the state council if she's going to consider doing these calculations, so that the ceiling is 36 hours in the kindergarten, that's in line with the fact that the kindergarten day is many places in nine and a half hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e499	The government is now gaining knowledge about who the cash beneficiaries are. In this work, we place particular emphasis on professional status, on educational backgrounds, on reasons for using cash support schemes as well as on the general living conditions of this group. The question asked by the representative Becquently can also be seen in this context, as we are now gaining knowledge about who is using it, and what is the need.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e504	Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e509	It is nice to note that the minister agrees with us that cash support is a good family policy, but also that the housing requirement has had some unintended consequences. I want to point to one of them. The residence requirement, introduced last year, applies to immigrants from outside the EEA territory. For EEA citizens are protected by the EEA rules and thus meet the living requirement. Thus, the requirement is met by migrant women from outside the EEA territory. It is discriminatory in itself — excluding a certain group of immigrants from a scheme, while allowing it for EEA immigrants. I'm 100 pst. for integration and 100 pst. to get good integration, but I'm also 100 pst. against discrimination. The requirement of residence is no more than discriminatory. Does the Minister, who is also the Minister for Gender Equality, see that the requirement for living also has a discriminatory element in itself, and does she think it is right to discriminate in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e516	It's good that the Center Party emphasizes that they're 100 pst. for integration. Something else might have been a little eye-catching. When the government presented the proposal on the requirement of living time, it was a very concrete measure to improve integration when we see that many parents are at home with the children and have more difficulty getting out of work. Then, after the scheme was introduced, we see some unintended consequences. That's why I told you that we're going to start evaluating this. We also need to look at whether there are arguments for faster integration that are not as relevant and that do not contribute to it. That is why we need to see whether an exception should be made in order to avoid discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e521	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e526	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. Recently, the E16 between Bergen and Voss was named Norway's worst road. Many may have been surprised by the fact that a European road, which is even part of the main road between Oslo and Bergen, was called to Norway's worst road. But the Minister of Transport is probably not surprised. At least he shouldn't be, because there's a known problem with how bad the road between Bergen and Voss is. Originally, it was planned to start a new road in 2021, but that start was postponed by the Minister for Transport. Now it looks like it's going to be ten new years before there can be a new road and the railway between Arna and Stanghelle, and maybe as much as 15-20 years before the entire route Arna–Voss is finished. The local population is afraid to use the road. It's very dangerous to traffic. Commuters, businesses and transport industries are in doubt. The municipalities in the area are, in my opinion, constructive and cooperative and agree that a government plan can be used to advance the work. My question is simply: why does it take so long to build a new road between Bergen and Voss? And what does the Minister of Transport say to those who depend on using this dangerous road every day?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e540	Thank you for the question. E16 is an important road, both in terms of East-West traffic and not least in terms of local and regional traffic. I have been there in the role of Minister of Transport at least ten to eleven times. I've been driving the road myself, I've been riding on truck drivers, I've been sitting on carriers, I've taken the Vossaban, I've met the rapporteurs and the residents, and I understand that this is one of the roads that aren't considered good enough, and many want to be improved. In the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, there was no plan to build this road, so when the representative Myrli talks about the construction start in 2021, there was nothing there when we took over. So I was out saying that we must have ambitions to fix this way, because it cannot be like that. It was some of what I was campaigning for, and that was some of what we in the opposition took up without being heard by the red-green government. Now there's been a programme of plans, last week, for how one wants to work on building this road. So that means that a guy who's working the way, he's working on the technical solutions, and he's working with the local politicians to agree on where to go, and then he can start building. What the plan programme says, which I hope the Myrli representative will read, is that if one gets implemented and adopted the regulatory plans by 2020, one will be able to make the earth a mess in 2022. So it's sooner than you would have done if you had implemented the previous government plan, which said you shouldn't do anything until the end of 2023, and then it would be uncertain what you were doing afterwards. I could have had ambitions to get started even earlier. With the information we had a couple of years ago, there was reason to think that we could do that. So the Vegvesenet has said that this is the technically most complicated road project they have. They need time to really prepare this, so that when we start building, we're done. We've listened to it. But now the plan programme is out, it's concrete progress, and you can see that the spade can get into the ground, so that we actually get this path fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e557	As usual, it goes approx. 20 seconds before the Minister of Transport owes him to the Red-Green Government. He is Minister of Transport for the fifth year and has to take responsibility for what is happening in Norwegian railway policy and in Norwegian transport policy. A few weeks ago, we discussed the development of the railways in Eastern Europe – the InterCity extension. Then the Minister of Transport said that if there is any new information, it is right to change the dates set by the Storting. Now, the Minister of Transport obviously believes that there are no new elements to suggest that he will speed up the development of E16 between Arna and Voss. It is alarming that the Minister of Transport takes this so little seriously and owes it to previous governments and formerly large numbers, instead of taking the responsibility he is now assigned for the fifth year. The question now is simply – and that is a simple question – with the timetable that the Minister for Transport is now working on, when will the new road and rail between Arna and Voss be completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e566	Let me first remind you that the question I got was why can't we get started earlier. Then it is natural that I respond to what has been the history until now. Then I pointed out that when we took over in 2013, there was no plan for this road to be rebuilt. That's what we've been doing. We actually have the plan programme out for consultation. We have put money into the national transport plan to do this. There were zero dollars in the previous NTP to build a new road. Now there are tens of billions of dollars to build the same way. That's not the same thing as blaming others and not doing anything yourself. That's to explain why it takes time to get started, but nevertheless show that we're doing something about it. We're doing something about the problem that you've been pointing at for decades without the representative Myrlis party ever lifting a finger to get the money into the national transport plan. With the plan now in place, one states that E16 can be completed during this national transport plan period. So we're going to build it, and we're going to finish it. For the first time, this route lies in the national transport plan, not only with start-up but with completion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e571	It opens for follow-up questions – first Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e576	Then I will ask the question again. Is the Council of State now talking about Arna–Stanghelle, or is the Council of State talking about the entire section of Arna–Voss? My question is again: When will new road and rail between Arna and Voss be finished with the timetable he is now working on?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e581	As I said, now we're getting started. Now we're concrete. Where the representative of the Myrlis Party has talked about this so far, but prioritised it down, we'll implement it with that we've granted money, and tens of millions of dollars are used to plan the way now. The programme has been submitted for consultation. That means that everyone should be able to make recordings. So we're going to be able to put the spade in the ground in 2022. With what's planned, it's likely that the railway will start its construction in 2024, and then one will work in parallel. The railway will be completed probably during the next NTP period. But now we're actually doing this. If one had managed to make the decisions that we have now, under the previous government, we would have seen the excavators there already. We can only look at the statements that were made when the NTP was presented in 2013, when the then State Council from the Senterpartiet was in Voss. Then we saw that this was not a priority high enough by the government and not locally either. We've changed those priorities because we think that this way is important to fix. The same thing applies to the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e588	So no answer. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e593	Ruth Grung – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e598	I want to give the Minister the right in terms of local priorities, because there was the Right Party and the Advance Party that ran, and that did not want to give priority to E16 after the 2013 NTP. Yesterday I gave 1st May speech on Dale. It's in the middle of Bergen and Voss, and around the whole town it says, "Someone's happy with you." Be careful in traffic. I spoke to an ambulance driver who had been out in quite a few of the accidents that have been there. 41 have been killed since 1990, several hundred have been injured. The road is so narrow in many places that there should only be a slight disturbance until something serious happens. So you choose Arna–Stanghelle, which is the distance where there is the smallest race, and where the road – in and out – is of the best quality. The question is: why can’t you plan the entire route together, so that the local population can hope to get a unified route to Voss?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e607	I understand the commitment to E16. We had that for eight years in opposition, and we didn't make it. It is very strange to hear that the parties that ran when the previous national transport plan was presented blame the local politicians of the Right and the Advance Party in Hordaland for not getting into the red-green national transport plan. It wasn't the state politicians in Hordaland who led the previous government, but it's supposed to be created. It was actually the previous government that ran, and that didn't prioritise money for this, and that couldn't even complete an investigation into the possibilities. We've captured this. We have added a two-digit billion in our national transport plan – not only to build, but also to complete long parcels, just to fix this. If we were to do second parcels first -- yeah, that's a recording that only comes now. It would be interesting to take a discussion about it. I have no prior opinion as to whether you should start at Arna or Voss. But the agreement was that we should start at Arna and build beyond. And we think that's also going to be of the greatest benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e614	Ruth Grung – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e620	I have history as a subject, but when it comes to politics, I think it's most exciting to see what's going on in the future. E16 is the main road between Bergen and Oslo. It's the main trajectory from the hinterland to Bergen. There is a state plan on which to base, so why can't you plan first the most vulnerable routes so that you can be safe? There's been race in the race in the last few years when you've been driving that way. People are afraid to drive that way. I drive myself that way when we're going on a ski trip, I don't use it every day. But why can't you, first of all, plan the entire distance together, from Arna to Voss, and, second, not prioritize the most rascal distances now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e625	I understand that the Workers' Party will not look back on this matter, for a delivered zero. So criticises today's government and today's majority, with the Christian People's Party, who has managed to spend a lot of money, and who now has a concrete program for how to build this and where to go, out at the hearing. There's a lot going on here, and then one from the opposition gives the impression that nothing has happened. It's simply not a proper storywriting. We have also increased the funding for racial protection along this route, so that that road, which in any case is going to lie there and be the local road also in the future, becomes safer. We have multiplied the appropriations for racial protection for both the E16 and the Voseban. I also have to remind you that road safety measures have been taken, which means that when you talk about 41 killed, there is a tragedy in itself, but at least we can enjoy that the figure has been reduced to one-third in the last six years. It shall also be honoured by the Red-Green Government, for one, finally, in 2012 some measures that have resulted and that make one safer today than one has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e634	Ivar Odnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e639	It is a dubious heir who has come to the benefit of this road. In the municipality of Bergen’s risk and vulnerability analysis from April last year, the E16 and Bergensbanen reports that it has been considered very likely that a serious transport accident could occur, with potentially disastrous consequences for life and health and very serious consequences for economic values. With such a clear speech and with so many races on the Voss–Arna route, it is only a matter of time when an accident with more consequences than it has before will happen. I believe that the Council of State sees as seriously as the signs of the situation, and that the Council of State, which is responsible for road and road, cannot ignore the risk that road users are exposed to every day on this route. What kind of action will the Council of State take in the short term to ensure life and health and to ensure that the road and path on this route are reached?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e648	As I mentioned in my previous answer, we are increasing the appropriations for racial protection on this route, in terms of both the E16 and the railway. This is done more now than under the previous government, because we saw the problem and took this up when we were in opposition. We were frustrated that there were neither concrete plans for a new road nor sufficient measures on the road that was. Road safety measures were made for a couple of $10 million – all the honours and honours of the Center Party for doing so when a crash itself – but now we have to build the road and the railway for 20 billion. kr. It shows a completely different willingness to prioritize that distance. I wish we could just pull a finished tunnel on miles out of a hat, and that we could just step in, but that's not the way the world is. That's why the Vegvesen does it – and as they've done for years below us – to plan where the road should go and talk to local politicians and others to get a consensus before we start building. The regulatory work will take a few years, but in 2020 one could start going into the market, and then a excavator gets in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e655	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e660	The question is still going to the Minister for Transport, so that Solvik-Olsen can continue here. On 10 April this year, the Minister of Transport gave a briefing on significant deployments in the InterCity extension, which is now part of the Directorate-General for Railway Action's proposal for an action programme. Last June, when the Stortinget took its decision on the National Transport Plan for 2018-2029, it was taken as a height for full InterCity expansion to be postponed from 2030 to 2034, based on professional assessments by the Directorate of Railways. On 18 February this year, Bane NOR presented its proposal for an action programme for the development of the railways, which announced a series of releases compared to the progress made by the Stortinget in its NTP decision last year, and the completion of the entire InterCity project has now been pushed into the blue. Last week we received information from an internal report in Bane NOR, where we found that the development of the Follobane project, which is an important project in InterCity, is now delayed. as a result of the termination of the contract with the contractor company Condotte. In February of this year, the Minister of Transport stood here in the Chamber and said that Bane NOR, who is responsible for the Follobane project, did not believe there were delays, and stressed the seriousness of delays being costly. It's a little trusting that the Council of State is so behind these projects. We are talking about some of the largest transport projects in the country. It is important that these are under control, economically and progressably. Governments have tried several times to draw an image where it is already in the best order before it travels, but reality does not appear that way. In Question Time on February 7th this year, the Council of State said that postponement at Follobanen could lead to costs in the 100 million dollar class. Can the Council of States now guarantee that we will not have more costs and delays?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e671	I have never given the impression that everything is happy and vulture in terms of our roads and railways, ports and airports. On the contrary, throughout my opposition period, I have pointed out that things are not joyous and vultureful. It's enough to read some front pages on the VG over the last decades, and then you see how the decay has shaped Norwegian infrastructure. We've got it under control. We have increased the maintenance of the road and the railway, so that the decay now collectively goes down, where it has increased for many decades. We have made sure that we can think more holistically, more long-term, when building new roads and new railways, so that we do not end up getting short railway tracks in Westfold as they do not actually use, and that one avoids that when taking the train out of Bodø, tracks that are not used because the system was suddenly changed, and because the investments were not long-term. That's one of the jobs we're doing now: structural changes and long-term sustainability are important. As far as the railway is concerned, we have also doubled the investments for the construction of new railways in the last period. If you look at Bane NOR's plans, they will double the investments in the next first half of the national transport plan. There's going to be a crazy lot of exciting happening on the railway. Most of the projects go as planned. This year we're going to start at Eidsvoll, we're going to start at Voss. But then there are two projects in which it has been specifically pointed out that the basic conditions are different and have been much worse than you thought, which causes problems. So it's not new political priorities that change, it's the reality that we have to deal with, and that we also adapt to. Then it's the Folloban tunnel, which is the largest infrastructure project currently under way in Norway. The bankruptcy protection that Condotte got caused them to be thrown out of the Follobane project. The information we received was that there is a risk here, but that one believes that one should be able to handle it. And it's true that Bane NOR is following this continuously to see how a best person can handle the tasks that you're supposed to do, to minimize the risk of cost exceedances and delays. I want to make sure that the Storting is well informed as the information comes out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e684	The railway has been split up. The service path from developer to department has been longer, with a new directorate and several companies. We in the Center Party realize that it has been harder to keep an overview, and we have warned the Council of State about that. I notice that the Council of State is not now able to respond specifically with regard to the time or cost of completing Follobana. The Council of State believes that the red tape that the railway reform has brought about has weakened the department's ability to be close to and direct to what is happening in all companies and agencies, among others. the delays and extra costs that we now see for Follobana?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e691	It is wrong that one can now conclude that the Folloban is delayed or that there are cost exceedances. But what the reports show is that there is a certain risk of that. Just because there is now one major player that is withdrawing, and one is to conclude new contracts, we do not yet know what the price will be, and whether we will get the actors to deliver as quickly as we hope. But as soon as we get information that suggests that the project will change in relation to the framework we've been given, we'll be briefing the Storting on that. It's just to emphasize again: this isn't politically initiated, as one gets the impression; this is part of dealing with that there's risk. So gives the impression that the railway has been red taped. There are no units currently that could not be found. But several of them now respond directly to the ministry, while they were previously part of the NSB group. The fact that we now have Bane-NOR, with all the property one place, makes us have better control than you had before. The fact that you have received the ticket system as a separate company that corresponds to us makes us have better control of this. So it's not right that we don't understand what's happening -- we have better control of the railway now than we had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e700	There will be follow-up questions – first Ivar Odnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e706	I'm still not overtimed. There are several railway projects that are either being planned or being started, and that is good. There has been a great commitment for many of the major projects: InterCity, Arna–Voss, Ringeriksbana, timber terminals, crossing tracks, signalling systems – to identify some important projects for people and businesses. The action programme for the Directorate-General for Railways has been distributed here in the Chamber, and it was in that programme that a number of important projects were put forward. I would therefore like to repeat the question of whether the Council of State now feels that he has sufficient control over the Norwegian railway system so that he can say that there will be no more delays and cost speeches on current railway projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e713	First of all, I think it's a little embarrassing to get this challenge from the Central Party, when we know that the former leader of the Central Party was out at this time last year and demanded that we cut railway appropriations in the East to spend money elsewhere. And so now the requirement of the Center Party is more to guarantee that you're going to spend more money on rail in the East than anywhere else. It's not a very long-term approach to politics. So I said in my previous answer that yes, I think we have at least as good control of that railway now as we had before the reform -- probably much better, because one gets more specialized units, and a more dedicated management. And we can follow management much better now, when we have different companies that are under the Ministry of Transport, than when there was a conglomerate like the NSB there. But what I can't guarantee is what kind of basic conditions our Lord has given us all the places we plan to build the railway. There may be surprises, even if I hope it doesn't happen. Maybe it would have been an advantage if the Christian People's Party also came into government, and we got an even less risk in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e722	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e727	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. The left is now co-responsible for criminal care, a care that the government has done its best to rage. We see that violence and threats are increasing and programme activities are being shut down. Employees and others report very critical developments. Among other things, cultural measures in prison have had very poor conditions. The Vardetheater and the Robberradio are examples of cultural activities in prison. The robbery radio, for example, has more than half of its allocation from the government, from DKK 900000 in 2014 to DKK 400000 in the 2018 budget. That's 60 pst. They have been awarded the Radio PRIX award, despite the fact that the Rooster Radio has received recognition for its work. It is important for freedom of expression that the Robber Radio continues. It is now nationwide and sends on NRK P2. The robber radio is also a frontier action, and it was hailed by an international industry at the Prison Radio Conference in London, England, recently. My question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Rooster Radio continues its important work for freedom of expression and prisoners in prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e738	The President is very uncertain and believes that this question is probably not within the constitutional sphere of the Council of State, but leaves it to the Council of State to decide whether she will still answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e743	I was very happy to get a question and was a little disappointed that it was not my field I was asked about. I can answer in general, because these are not appropriations that go beyond my budget, nor am I familiar with the development of the various posts in the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. I think we have to get back to that. But it's sunny, if I'm going to say something general, a challenge in our prisons now that we've got the prison queues down, that we're using a lot more of other types of reconciliation than what we do through regular prisons. The group currently in Norwegian prisons has far greater challenges than the slightly larger size of prison inmates had in the past. Of course, there are new demands for both those who work in our prisons and the way you work in prisons to make prisons function as rehabilitation. It is clear that culture and the instruments within the cultural spectrum have a great impact; there has been a lot of research on these groups. I can only promise the representative to come back to this, but I do not have an overview of the posts that the Ministry of Justice has for cultural work in prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e752	Thank you for that, it was positive tones, and thanks for the fact that the council replied, although she believes it is outside her remit. The issue is that the Workers' Party, for example, in the range of 10 millilitres. kr to culture in prisons on our cultural budget. There are opportunities to use the cultural budget also in prisons, and we know that prisons are built on a principle of subsidiarity, that is, that the outside world should enter and that they should have equal access to everything. It's positive. I really hope that the Council of State will follow up, because the Robber Radio is an important measure. I know they have sent applications to different departments, among others. to the Department of the Council of State. We're going to evaluate the Left and the cultural effort they're doing in prison once the new Council of State has been seen through the budget and see if there's anything they're going to do, and we have high expectations that this will be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e757	Although the supplementary question is also outside the Council of State, I leave it up to the Council of State to answer it if she wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e762	I think it's better that someone has expectations of me than if the opposite were the case. I think we need to look at the entire criminal system in the future and have a very broad approach, because we need good rehabilitation and good criminal care, and then we have big challenges ahead of us with those who are currently in Norwegian prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e767	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e781	Let me first thank you for the opportunity to re-examine Norway's involvement in the fight against ISIL and for our broader civil efforts in Iraq and Syria. The government has regularly and thoroughly consulted Storting's bodies about our contribution to the fight against ISIL. This has been important for government assessments and management. Initially, I would also like to thank all those who have contributed in various ways and who continue to contribute to the fight against ISIL and humanitarian and stabilising efforts. It saves lives, it relieves distress and is important for regional stability and for Norwegian security. It's highly valued by the government. ISIL has grown in a region destabilised by failing regimes, political repression and sectarian tensions. The conflicts in Syria and Iraq have also contributed to creating the largest flow of refugees and migration in the region and to Europe in recent times. As of 2014, several of the most important cities in Iraq and Syria were quickly subject to the terrorist fields of ISIL. The stories we later know from cities like Mosul and Raqqa testify to a terrorist organization more brutally than anything we've seen in the last decades. ISIL was a significant threat not only in the region but also in the West and Europe. In the self-declared headquarters of the terrorist group, Raqqa planned ISIL a series of terrorist attacks against the West. Many of these were implemented in European cities. Neither Iraqi nor Syrian authorities were able to combat the rapid emergence of terrorist groups. The UN Security Council made it clear: the international community had to use all the necessary means to stop the destruction of ISIL. This was the background for Norway joining the International Coalition to Combat ISIL. Today, we are on the threshold of a new phase in the fight against ISIL. The coalition and local actors have liberated most of the areas previously controlled by ISIL. But although ISIL is significantly weakened, they still control individual pockets in Syria, and they are still present in Iraq. Military action is therefore still necessary. We must expect that the group will also try to destabilise vulnerable countries and regions in the future. There is concern that ISIL is strengthening elsewhere, such as Afghanistan, North Africa and Sahel. This is a development that disturbs the countries concerned and that the coalition and international organisations closely follow. In addition, ISIL continues to pose a serious threat to Europe. Although a number of terrorist attacks against Europe are averted, ISIL continues to have the capacity to radicalise, recruit and inspire attacks outside Syria and Iraq. The so-called virtual Caliphate of the terrorist group on the Internet. Foreign fighters and their return are still a major problem both in Europe and in Syria and Iraq. How different countries deal with foreign fighters and their families in the coming years will affect the threat picture nationally and regionally. The fight against ISIL and other violent extremism must also be taken at home here. Of the approximately 100 Norwegian-related foreign warriors who have traveled to Syria and Iraq, about 30 have been killed. Between 30 and 40 remain in the remaining areas of ISIL, and about 40 have returned to Norway. We can expect that even women associated with foreign warriors, and children of these, will want to return. The Government's action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism has also addressed this group. We must work long-term and preventively to prevent recruitment to violent extremism. Global security threats such as terrorism and violent extremism are important for a comprehensive UN effort. In 2017, Norway, together with Jordan, established a permanent team of friends for the UN’s work on its prevention. Norway has also taken several international initiatives to include young people, women and civil society in its prevention work. The government has previously underlined that the fight against ISIL will not be over when the group is territorially closed. Military progress is of little value if it is not consolidated by political, civil and economic measures that can provide the basis for peaceful development over time. The international coalition against ISIL now consists of 75 states and organisations and is a strong expression of the global will to stand together in the fight against international terrorism. The coalition has had a broad strategy since its establishment, where ISIL is combated by both civil and military instruments. Since 2014, Norway has been active in all five areas of the coalition’s efforts. Firstly, we are making military aid. The Minister of Defence will explain this in more detail. We have been open about our international law assessments related to the strength contributions and published two notes on the international law basis for our military contributions. As far as we know, this is the first time that such international judgments have been published in Norway. Secondly, we are contributing to stabilisation in Iraq and Syria. Thirdly, we are helping to prevent the recruitment of foreign fighters and to identify foreign fighters who are trying to return. Fourthly, our national experts have been involved in an analysis of ISIL’s funding base, especially from the oil and energy sectors. This has helped to reduce ISIL’s access to some of their main sources of funding. Fifthly, we contribute skills and resources to the fight against ISIL’s propaganda and recruitment apparatus. In cooperation with the coalition, important Internet tactaries have blocked access to large amounts of extremist propaganda. In addition, Norway is a significant humanitarian donor to Syria and Iraq. Iraq remains in an economic, social and security situation. ISIL has lost its territorial caliphate, but as long as several of the causes of ISIL’s emergence are still present, the group will continue to exist. We see that ISIL continues to carry out attacks, especially in Shia-dominated areas in Iraq. In this way they contribute to further sectarian divisions. In the long term, it can once again destabilise the country and increase the risk of a new spiral of violence. The humanitarian situation in Iraq is demanding. Although more than half of the internally displaced persons have returned to their homes, there are still 2.3 million Iraqi refugees in their own country. Not everyone has home to return to. There is a significant need for mine clearance in large parts of the country. Many have also experienced sexual and gender-based violence – especially under ISIL’s rule, but also after liberation. A prerequisite for preventing ISIL or other terrorist groups from getting foothold is that basic needs such as safety, employment, food, health and schooling are met by the authorities. Immediate stabilisation measures are therefore a key priority for the future coalition. Norway is a significant contributor to this. This year, the government is increasing its support for Iraq to 350 million. kr, including the new aging from December 2017. That's an increase of 20 pst. Of this, 260 is going to be million. kr for stabilising and vulnerability reduction measures. It includes support for the fight against sexual and gender-based violence and for those who have been subjected to that type of violence. We can show good results from the Norwegian effort so far. The population of liberated areas is experiencing an ever-increasing improvement in basic social services. Only in Mosul has the UN Stabilisation Fund contributed to the return of more than 375 000 children to school. The number is constantly increasing. Reconstruction takes time. Iraq is dependent on long-term assistance from the international community. For example, the UN has estimated that it could take between 40 and 50 years to clear Iraq for mines and explosives. Humanitarian mine removal is therefore a high priority as part of Norwegian aid. In addition, Norway contributes in the long-term through, inter alia, Oil for the development programme. However, the primary responsibility for stabilisation and reconstruction lies with Iraqi authorities. As an intermediate country, Iraq itself contributes an estimated 80 pst. of the overall humanitarian response, but the country still needs external support. Iraqi authorities also have a special responsibility for the ongoing legal settlement following the conflicts and for ensuring the implementation of legal certainty guarantees. We've also dealt with this with Iraqi authorities. The judicial system is heavily overburdened by the high number of suspected ISIL warriors and support players. But the fight against ISIL must be conducted with respect for human rights and international humanitarian law. Without a fair trial, Iraq is at risk of reversing the contradictions of the population. It has been important to underline the efforts of the coalition towards Iraqi authorities. In a week's time, the Iraqis will go to the elections. If there is a more political inclusive government, Iraq will be able to better deal with ISIL and other forms of violent extremism. Politically inclusive governance, reforms and reconciliation are needed to create long-term stability in the country. The choice will also be crucial for the country's external relations. We depend on authorities that still want to cooperate on the challenges that ISIL and other terrorism pose for Iraq, the region and the rest of the world. Let me go over to the situation in Syria. The conflicts in Syria have caused enormous destruction and suffering. Millions have fled to neighbouring countries. Many have also fled to Europe. ISIL still controls some pockets east of the country. However, the struggles in northern Syria have led the Kurdish groups that have fought against ISIL to focus instead on defending themselves against the Turkish forces. It has again reduced the military pressure against ISIL in the remaining areas controlled by the terrorist group. It is important to resume the pressure on ISIL in these pockets. ISIL must not retain areas under its control. It is also important to focus our efforts in such a way that we ensure that ISIL cannot return to areas that have already been released. The population must feel that the security situation is improving and that they can return to their homes. However, stabilisation efforts in liberated areas in Syria are more challenging than in Iraq. It is because it is impossible to cooperate with the authorities in the same way as in Iraq. But in some areas and via some channels it is possible. In 2018, we've put off 200 million. to stabilise and humanitarian measures to reduce vulnerability in Syria – so-called early recovery. This includes rehabilitation in the humanitarian core areas. Examples are medical devices, necessary maintenance of schools and health clinics, local agriculture and food production and repair of water and sewerage systems. We do not support the construction of new hospitals or major infrastructure projects. Mining and education are two areas we want to prioritise even higher in the future. There is still no political solution to the conflict between the Syrian regime and the opposition and the various support players of the various parties. President Assad receives military support from Russia and Iran and believes he can win the conflict militarily. He seems to have little willingness to negotiate. But it's just a political solution that could give the Syrian population long-term stability and peaceful development. Again, it is important to avoid the emergence of terrorist organisations such as ISIL. Norway has long stressed that Assad cannot be part of the long-term political solution. The UN has so far held nine rounds of negotiations in Geneva as part of this political process, but the parties have not ever negotiated directly with each other. Norway supports the UN's peace mediation effort, both political and economic. The solutions for Syria and other conflict countries are becoming more sustainable if women and civil society are also involved in the peace processes. This is why Norway is, among other things, urges Syrian women and civil society representatives to contribute to the Geneva processes. Cruel war crimes have been committed during the seven-year war in Syria. It is important that those responsible for such crimes be held responsible for their actions. Norway is therefore contributing to projects that obtain evidence of violations of international humanitarian law and international human rights in Syria. Norway and Western countries agree not to contribute to reconstruction in Syria until a credible and inclusive political transition process is underway. We do not want assistance to be used by the Syrian regime to support it under its own legitimacy. Although the situation in Syria today is not conducive to this type of long-term development effort, the need for immediate humanitarian and stabilisation measures is enormous. Over 13 million people need humanitarian aid in Syria, and over 5 million of them are children. Our humanitarian aid is designed to save lives, relieve distress and protect civilians and is rooted in the principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence. Norway provides this assistance based on humanitarian needs, and therefore we provide it in both regime and insurgent areas. Humanitarian aid is not part of the fight against ISIL, but at the same time we know that conflicts and humanitarian suffering can provide the basis for the development of terrorist organisations such as ISIL. Since the beginning of the conflict between the regime and the opposition, Norway has been one of the largest humanitarian contributors to Syria. In 2016, Norway made a promise of 10 billion. kr to help people in Syria and neighbouring countries in the period 2016–2019. At the end of this year, we're going to add up to at least 7.5 billion. kr since that time, and we are fulfilling the promise as planned by 2019. For this year, Norwegian aid to Syria and neighbouring countries amounts to 2.25 billion. kr. Norwegian contribution to remedying the crisis in Syria and neighbouring countries has so far led to more results. Two examples: About one million people in Syria have access to water and sanitation facilities. 1.2 million Syrian refugees in Jordan and Lebanon have received support for food through cash cards or coupons via the World Food Programme, the WFP. Children and youth are the greatest losers in the war. Many have lost everything: family, friends, and schooling. At the same time, it is these children who can secure Syria a future that day the war is over. 15 pst. of the Norwegian Syrian vow. Norway is one of the very few countries that earmarks so large sums for this purpose. With support from, inter alia: Norway has received training through the UN Children’s Fund, UNICEF, more than 1.2 million children in Syria and neighbouring countries. Almost half of these are girls. When I attended the Brussels II Conference last week, several central UN organisations and other humanitarian organisations repeated the great need to prioritise support for education. It is very important for the future, but it is also important for giving children and young people a tab of normality in an otherwise abnormal and dramatic situation. During the last two Syria conferences, where Norway was a co-organizer, we also established overall agreements with neighbouring countries on education and employment. This implies that neighbouring countries organise basic training for Syrian children, as well as vocational training and employment for Syrian refugees. Education is important for building societies, not least in order to avoid recruiting young people to extremist organisations. Let me say something about the political challenges we have both faced and will face in the future. In Iraq, there is a risk that latent sectarian and ethnic tensions will flare up again now that ISIL at the nearest is territorially controlled. This risk is reinforced by the need for Iraqi authorities to use more militias, including Shia militias closely linked to Iran, in order to re-establish ISIL areas and secure those areas. The presence of the militias has a destabilising effect in sunnidominated areas and among vulnerable minorities such as Christians and Jesuits. The political arm of the militias is to do well next week's parliamentary elections. There may be negative consequences for further stabilisation in Iraq and for the potential to mitigate the sectarian tensions that contributed to the development and recruitment of ISIL. ISIL was and is an extremely brutal enemy. ISIL systematically used the civilian population as a living shield. It made the release of Mosul and Raqqa very demanding. Coalition and Iraqi security forces placed great emphasis on avoiding civilian losses. It has been important for Iraqi authorities that security forces can gain the confidence of the population. However, human rights organisations have accused the coalition and several of its partners of breaches of international law. This is something the coalition takes seriously, and the investigator. The coalition attaches great importance to the continuation of the fight against ISIL in line with humanitarian law. Violation of the rules of humanitarian law is unacceptable, no matter who commits them. There will always be risks associated with assisting countries in conflict. The report of the Afghanistan Committee points to the extent to which it is too demanding to contribute to the strengthening of the legitimacy of local government in the population. If donors do not know local power alliances and other conditions, it is difficult to gain trust on behalf of a central government. Stabilisation work in Iraq is under way in close dialogue with both federal and local authorities. The priority areas are those with the highest needs, irrespective of sectarian and ethnic ties. Norway’s stabilisation efforts in Iraq are also channelled through partners who know local conditions and who have good anti-corruption practices. In Syria, independent and impartial humanitarian actors can be identified as partners with either the regime or rebel groups. Such politicisation of humanitarian aid is distanced from us. The assistance must reach those in need regardless of the area in which they are located or the side of the conflict on which they have been or are standing. This is a fundamental principle of humanitarian work. The internal tensions in Syria and Iraq are reinforced by regional actors exerting influence with a wide range of instruments. Both in Syria and in Iraq we see an internationalisation of internal conflicts. In particular, Iran’s exercise of power is visible, but Turkey and other actors also play important roles. Power conditions are constantly changing. Russia is an example. In recent years, the country has filled a vacuum of power in the region and further increased its influence by supporting the Assad regime militarily. Regional power games are demanding to deal with, and it is important in the landscape to move carefully and with great flexibility. This applies not only to military contributions but also to civil involvement. Here, as in other complex conflict areas, the risk of accidental involvement in local and regional conflicts will always be present. Our local and international partners know the region well, and we also keep in regular contact with local authorities. Finally, let me also stress that Norway’s military efforts have been and will be limited to the fight against ISIL. Norwegian efforts shall contribute to stabilising depopulated areas in order to prevent ISIL from regaining foothold. It's demanding, but it's not impossible. We maintain close contact with allies, partners and local authorities we cooperate with on the ground, to ensure as far as possible that our funds contribute to this goal. We must ensure that what we have achieved in the fight against ISIL is not lost. We will also continue to take our share of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e937	Let me first join the Foreign Minister's thanks for the opportunity to explain Norway's military contribution to the fight against ISIL. The decision on the use of military power is one of the most serious tasks of the government. Close contact with Stortinget is therefore important in such cases. This is particularly important in the context of efforts under as demanding and changing conditions as the efforts against ISIL, where we need to constantly assess and adapt efforts to achieve its objectives. 2018 plans to be a transitional year for the fight against ISIL in Iraq. The needs of the Iraqi authorities will be adjusted in line with the changes in the challenge picture. The plan is now a gradual reduction and adjustment of the mechanism of international efforts as Iraq’s security forces are enabled to deal with the remaining threat posed by ISIL. At the same time, we must be prepared to change the situation. The international coalition supporting Iraq must adapt the plan to the ground situation, in close contact with the Iraqi authorities. My statement will pay particular attention to four aspects: the arrangement of our military contributions; the legal basis for the Norwegian military effort; results we have achieved, experience we have gained, and plans for Norway's further engagement circumstances requiring particular attention The arrangement of our military contributions is based on the basic principle of Operation Inherent Resolution, which is that ISIL should be combated by Iraqi forces and by local partners in Syria. Coalition forces shall support them by offering appropriate training and practice. Some departments shall also provide advice and operational support for operations where necessary. This is also at the root of Norway’s support. Norway is gaining recognition for our military contributions. Firstly, our contributions are of high quality and are staffed by staff with a lot of experience. Secondly, Norway has shown the ability to continuously adjust its facilities and efforts as the fight against ISIL develops and the needs of the coalition change. As an example, Norway moved the conventional power contribution from Northern Iraq at the right time, so that we could play a central role in the liberation of the last ISIL occupied areas of the Anbar province of Iraq. In 2018, the defence’s contribution to the fight against ISIL consists of two main components of a total of 110 personnel. The army provides a conventional strength contribution to train and advise the management of Iraqi forces, primarily at division and Brigade level. The contribution is made at the Al Asad base in the Anbar province, where both Iraq and the coalition have forces. Activities are now taking place primarily at the base and at the Iraqi headquarters. However, Norwegian personnel must also be able to follow Iraqi forces in field operations, in line with coalition plans. It is necessary to ensure that training and counselling are relevant and realistic. It is also important to build respect with our Iraqi partners, so that they will listen to our advice and learn from our attitudes. The Special Forces of Defence shall make a strength contribution to train, advise and support Iraqi security forces in preparing and conducting operations in Iraq. In the last few weeks, there has been a headline in the media about the Norwegian specialty contribution that previously operated in Syria. They operated in 2016-2017 together with local partners in Syria to combat ISIL groups threatening Iraq. The operation ended in October 2017, when operational needs changed. I would like to clarify that local partners were thoroughly investigated by the coalition before the defence began cooperation. The coalition's support has always assumed that its partners would only fight against ISIL. In the course of our cooperation, our staff followed these departments closely, and made sure that they did not fight against anyone other than ISIL. In 2018, the defense also provides a surgical unit for six months to meet the coalition’s need for sanitation support. This unit consists of about 20 people. It deployed at the beginning of April to the Anbar province, where it will stand for six months. In addition to these, the Defense has a logistics base in Jordan to support the Norwegian effort in Iraq, as well as staff officers at the coalition headquarters in Baghdad and Kuwait. The basis for our efforts in Iraq under international law is the Iraqi Government's request for international support to combat ISIL. Norwegian forces in Iraq are therefore present after the invitation and consent of the Iraqi authorities. International support is coordinated through the American-led Inherent Resolution operation. The national legal basis for the Norwegian strength contributions is set out in several royal resolutions. These have been adjusted and renewed in line with the progress made in the fight against ISIL and the changes on the ground. It is essential that efforts are aimed at supporting Iraqi security forces under the control of the central authorities in their fight against ISIL. The coalition shall provide training, advice and support. Formally, the Norwegian forces are assigned to the coalition, as is common in such multinational operations. However, there is a requirement that contributions always comply with Norway’s international obligations, Norwegian law and the restrictions laid down in the resolutions. The exposure rules, i.e. the rules on when the Norwegian forces can use power, have been established nationally by the Minister of Defence in line with common practice. The Norwegian power contributions may use armed power when attacked or exposed to significant danger. Since Iraqi forces are primarily to combat ISIL, the Norwegian forces will primarily need to use power for self-defence or for strength-protection actions. When Norwegian forces follow Iraqi departments in fields during operations, the force must be able to defend itself, the coalition and its Iraqi partner force if attacked. The Special Forces Contribution also has the right to use power in its support of Iraqi security forces operations against ISIL. For the sake of the security of our forces, I cannot disclose the details of the exposure rules in this open session. It is important for the government that our soldiers have the full right to defend themselves and their partners when we send them out on dangerous missions. Impressive results have been achieved in the fight against ISIL. ISIL has lost almost all territory they held in Iraq, and most of what they held in Syria. The Iraqi forces have evolved into a competent and robust organisation. It's those who have stood in front of ISIL, it's those who have taken a loss to beat ISIL back, and it's those who have won their country back from the terrorists. This ensures that Iraq can conduct parliamentary elections later this month, and has contributed to the stability and governance of the country more than has been the case for many years. International support has also been impressive and has been crucial to the progress of the Iraqi forces. Through a carefully adapted, and not too large, ground presence, the coalition has avoided depriving the host country of ownership in the fight against the rebels, and has avoided sparklings with the inhabitants of Iraq. At the same time, we see that ISIL is not yet defeated. Especially on the Syrian side, the organisation is in the process of strengthening itself again. This is a threat to those who live in these areas. It could also develop into a threat that could threaten again parts of Iraq. By the fact that ISIL is almost territorially combated, Iraq is now entering a new phase. International support for Iraq will reflect this. The coalition will make two adjustments: Firstly, support from offensive operations will be turned towards stabilisation operations. More emphasis will be placed on maintaining law and order through police and with the support of military departments, while assisting Iraq in continuing to pursue offensive operations against remaining ISIL warriors and being able to face a continuing threat of terrorism. Secondly, the international commitment will focus on civil efforts for reconstruction and on promoting Iraq's democratic institutions. However, there is likely to be a long-term need for international military presence in Iraq. The country's past is so unstable and violent that it would be naive to believe that Iraq can build a stable future without continued international military support that could prevent the return of ISIL. However, we need to keep considering how this aid can be made as small as possible, without jeopardising the results achieved in recent years. NATO considers a certain extension of its current involvement in Iraq. The government's position is that NATO should confine itself to complementing the coalition's capacity building of Iraqi security forces. NATO shall have no operational role and the exposure shall be limited in size. One important condition is that the coalition continues and supports NATO with strength protection and logistics. The Government will consider possible Norwegian contributions as NATO plans become concrete. As I said, decision on the use of military power will always be among a government's most serious acts. The use of military power to stop or limit violent conflicts in other countries confronts matters that require special attention and demanding assessments. Firstly, we need to know that we have a legal basis both in international law and under the Norwegian right to intervene. Secondly, we must be able to send our best young men and women on demanding missions outside Norway, efforts that could pose a risk to life. We must be able to stand by the fact that what Norway is seeking to achieve is in proportion to the risk we are imposing on our soldiers. A big risk of using military power out there is that we create or maintain bigger problems than we solve. To ensure that our military engagement dampens conflict and reduces human suffering, we need a clear strategy to avoid this. Well-educated and trained personnel are needed to cope with this, along with clear command line and clear exposure rules. However, this is not sufficient. The important thing is to have a good plan for how to stop our military power rather than continue a violent conflict. I would argue that the government has a good plan for the efforts in Iraq. The aim is to contribute to the fight against ISIL and to prevent the organisation from again threatening Iraq. The plan is well thought out in Norwegian law and international law. However, the situation in the region is unpredictable and unpredictable. We cannot say that ISIL is permanently defeated neither in Iraq nor in Syria. Nor do we have the means to control or limit the behaviour of local partners after we have concluded cooperation. But as the Prime Minister said in his statement on Norway's contribution to the fight against ISIL in November 2016: This is not a fight we choose, it is a fight we have to take. For the option – not doing anything – will be so much worse. Norway’s contribution is well integrated into international efforts to combat ISIL in Iraq and Syria. This too is a plan that has been well implemented so far. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has shown, it consists of a broad range of political, civil and economic measures, as well as military instruments. Furthermore, I would argue that the effort demonstrates the ability to adapt to developments in the country and region. Norway is making significant contributions, through the military departments we send, and through the ongoing efforts of the Government and Defence to adapt our contributions to current needs. As the statement shows, the effort against ISIL has so far been successful. However, the government is aware that the conflicts in Iraq and Syria have complex causes. Conflicts quickly change character. By tackling a problem, we face new challenges quickly. We're going to experience setbacks. However, I would argue that the threat from ISIL called for a strong international response. It was not relevant for the government that Norway should not bear its share of responsibility. Finally, I would like to thank Norwegian men and women in uniform who represent our military efforts in Iraq. They accept dangers and delays to enable Norway to contribute to peace in Iraq. Their families at home must endure uncertainty and neglect. For this, I thank Norwegian military personnel in Iraq, and I thank the families around those who are at home. I thank you on behalf of the government, and I thank you on behalf of myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1047	As the President understands, Stortinget wants the statement to be sent to the committee. The President will therefore, in accordance with paragraph 45(c) of the first paragraph of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, propose that the statement on the fight against ISIL be sent to the Foreign and Defence Committee. Consequently, the debate announced will be deleted. Are there any objections to this? – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1063	There will be a number of changes in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic question list in the salapp. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of the Minister for Culture, Mr Sem-Jacobsen, has been withdrawn. Question 3, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister for Culture, has been withdrawn. Question 9, from the representative Ivar Odnes to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is responsible. At the request of the Minister of Finance, the question is moved and answered in response to question 1, to be answered by the same Council of State. Now it is true that the Council of State, which is to answer the first question, has not yet come to the Chamber. The president then suggests that we wait a little bit until she's in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1088	Then we're ready to start the regular questioning process. The President will make the Minister aware that it is her own responsibility to come to the Questionnaire in due time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1096	It was nice for the Minister of Finance to come. I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘There has been a worrying large increase in consumer loans in Norwegian consumers. It may seem that the increase coincides with restrictions on the bank's ability to provide mortgages. What assessments does the Council of State make of this and will it take action to mitigate the use of consumer loans?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1105	Let me first regret that I was late. It was a bit difficult to get into the garage, but I agree that it is my responsibility to get in time. The Government is concerned that bank lending practices should be sound, whether in the form of mortgages, consumer loans or other loans. The requirements of the Housing Loan Regulation have been important to reduce the risk in the Norwegian economy and for the individual borrower. Norwegian households have about 2,500 billion. in residential loans. Consumption loans amount to approximately 100 B.C.E. kr, i.e. 3 pst. of household liabilities. This is relatively low compared to some other countries, but the Norwegian market is growing. The growth in consumer loans has been higher than the total growth in debt for several years and was particularly high in 2016. Growth has fallen somewhat in the last year, but is still high. Access to consumer loans can give households financial freedom, e.g.: to deal with unforeseen expenditures, but may also create problems for those who, for various reasons, raise larger loans than they can serve. The interest rate on consumer loans is usually high and is often added to the service of mortgages and other liabilities. The government is concerned that more people can have debt problems with the growth we see in consumer loans. We have therefore taken a number of measures to improve the functioning of this market. We have introduced stricter requirements for the marketing of credit and invoicing of credit card debt, and the Financial Supervisory Authority has provided guidelines on sound lending practices for consumer loans. Financial supervision has also established higher soundness requirements for several consumer lending banks. Moreover, from next year, the consumer lending banks will be subject to the deposit guarantee, in line with new legal provisions adopted by the Stortinget in March. The new Debt Information Act will contribute to greater transparency in the level of debt already available to borrowers so that banks can better assess the soundness of granting the loan. The Government is also working on proposals for new Financial Contracts Act aimed at strengthening consumer protection. I believe that the government's actions can solve most of the challenges with consumer loans, but several of them have worked for a short time or not properly put in place. In this year's financial market notification, presented last week, the government provides a preliminary assessment of another measure, namely a so-called interest rate cap. The government believes that this could be a valid instrument, especially if small, short-term consumer loans were to be increased. However, interest rates will be intrusive and should not be assessed until we have gained any more experience with the other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1126	I thank the Council of State for the answer – in so far as not an answer to my concerns. We have, after what I have seen when I have tried to investigate it, very little knowledge of how much of the consumption loans are used to cover the equity of mortgages. There is an investigation in a journal for social economists, which considers that there is a link between people who do not have the necessary equity to obtain mortgages under the regulations currently in force and taking up consumer loans. That's exactly the assessment I want the Council of States to be able to say something about. If the Council of State can't say anything about it, will she start a work on looking at the relationships that we're worried about?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1131	I share the representative's concerns about this, but a little bit of the problem is that we don't know. I have allowed myself to ask that question in different contexts myself, simply because we hear stories from time to time, just about taking up expensive consumption loans to meet the demands that the bank makes on mortgages. At the same time, some banks report that this is not such a big problem, but we are aware of it and try to map it thoroughly. Now the government is in a phase where we are also preparing what to do in connection with the expiry date of the mortgage regulation at the end of June. There are many questions I think it is natural that we do as good monitoring as possible, both when we assess it, and when we consider any other measures to slow down the growth of consumer loans.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1136	I thank the Council of State again. I agree that it is important to get more knowledge about this. That's as far as I'm asking for as well. When the Housing Loan Regulation is to be amended during the month of June, there is an urgent need to acquire that knowledge, for several of the consumer loans are defaulting, and there has been a sharp increase in the number of defaulted consumer loans. Because then you have a loan burden that is only 85 pst., it will be possible for the consumer loan banks to take a pledge in the dwelling. In a situation where we were going to have a decline in housing prices, it could help trigger a market turmoil that is quite big. When will the Council of State be able to say anything more about the contexts I'm asking for here?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1141	I think one of the most important things we've done, which is just about to get started, is the Debt Information Act and the creation of the register that will be able to compile all that kind of information. As far as I know, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is now fully in the final interview to assess those who have submitted a tender for this. Then you'll get a much better compilation of the economic situation of the individual borrower. However, as I said, this is an area where the government follows very closely, where we are in dialogue with both the Financial Supervisory Authority, Norway’s Bank and the various financial market actors in order to obtain as much information as possible as possible on the basis of any changes to the Housing Loan Regulation. Now the government has not taken a decision on what kind of changes and how, but it will end at the end of June, and within that time the government will have its assessment of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1146	Then we go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1154	This question, from the representative Ivar Odnes to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1159	Facilitating access to different venues also raises this issue, which the Minister of Justice is also struggling with. The question is: ‘Grand Airport wants to be an airport offering services to the local business community. The ability to land charter foreign aircraft is important, but has been problematic since Customs does not always set up if there are no scheduled routes that are fixed over a longer period of time. It is also stated that at Arendal Airport this is easier to get to. Is the Council of State aware of this discrimination, and will the Council of State take action to enable Stord Airport to provide the industry with what they need?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1168	Let me first say that I appreciate the representative's commitment to the local business community at Stord. The government will help create a robust and diverse business. I am not familiar with the discrimination described by the representative, but I can inform you that neither Stord airport nor Arendal airport have the status of international airport. The customs tariff has no obligation to be present on arrival or departure. Access to landing chartered foreign aircraft at airports in Norway is regulated by the Customs Act on customs matters. This also applies to all other international air traffic to and from Norway. The provisions state that aircraft arriving at the customs area should normally go directly to an airport with international status. However, there is the possibility of landing chartered aeroplanes at aerodromes without international status, by applying to the Customs Directorate for permission under given conditions. I have been informed that the customs office has as a established practice to grant all the applications submitted within the four-hour period before arrival or departure, which fulfil the conditions. It's done here, as I've been informed, no discrimination against the Arendal and Stord airports. However, there is slightly greater traffic at Arendal Airport than at Stord Airport. In 2017, there were on Stord 8 departing and 10 arriving flights, while for Arendal there were 15 departing and 24 arriving flights. If there is a desire to expand the number of flights to and from Stord airport, the Customs Directorate may apply for it. If the business community considers that there is a need for Stord airport to have international status, it is a matter for the Ministry of Transport and, where appropriate, the industry should address it. A strong, diverse and competitive business is essential to maintain a good level of well-being in the future. The government will facilitate value creation and growth in the private sector, profitable jobs and conversion of Norwegian business. Here I can assure the representative that the government shares his commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1181	I thank you for your answer. I am, in line with the Council of State, busy with simplification and red tape. What is outlined from business and from Stord airport is just the bureaucracy around this by customs clearance of charter aircraft coming in. There is sometimes a great need to bring in skills and labour from abroad during the working period at the larger yards. Why not provide an even smaller bureaucratic and red tape system to ensure that these smaller aerodromes can do so at the same time as ensuring the necessary control of the flight, of course?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1186	I'm not so sure if this system is very bureaucratic. But here the distinction goes between whether the aerodrome is initially defined as an international aerodrome or not. Then the legislation, as I explained in my previous reply, is that the customs authorities essentially accept all applications of this type if they have been submitted within the deadline. I think this is primarily a question you have to find out locally, whether you want to change the status of the airport etc. Then you have to address the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1191	I thank you for your answer. It was useful, and I want to take it back with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1205	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1219	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1227	‘Refers to Aftenposten 19 April of this year regarding the dramatic increase in the number of people left behind against their will abroad. What has the Council of State done to prevent this from happening, and what will he do to prevent this from happening in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1234	I would like to thank you for a good and important question. It is an important value in our society that everyone should be able to live free and independent lives. Children, young people and adults have the right to make their own choices in life. This is a fundamental human right that applies to everyone. The new figures are alarming and serious. The fact that more than 70 people are left abroad against their will in 2017 shows that we must continue to work to capture those who are exposed to these serious acts. I hope that the explanation that the number of cases is increasing may be that several auxiliary staff are aware of the scheme and that more vulnerable people are contacting the auxiliaries, but in any case we need to do more to prevent young people, children and adults from being exposed to it. It follows from the government platform that the government will strengthen its efforts to combat negative social control and to prevent children and young people from being left abroad against their will. The Government’s action plan against negative social control, forced marriages and sexual mutilation contains 28 concrete actions that are now being followed. In addition, the government has decided to take new measures. The government is working to prevent the exit, withhold or refuse passport issuance in order to prevent children from being sent abroad against their will. We have also started work on improving procedures for informing and alerting public authorities in order to counteract negative social control and for children and young people to be left abroad against their will. We have launched a new campaign against negative social control to help them find the help they need. Parents need to be guided in understanding and respecting Norwegian laws, standards and values, including: the rights of the child. We therefore ensure that more people are offered parental guidance, so that they are better equipped to deal with challenges. We work with immigrant organisations and non-governmental organisations to change attitudes and practices in the relevant environments where this occurs. The government will further develop the scheme of minority advisors at secondary and secondary schools with a high proportion of minority language pupils and the scheme of integration advisors at Norwegian foreign stations. In order to gain more knowledge of how auxiliaries meet young people, individual cases of abandoned children and young people should be reviewed. This will provide us with a basis for assessing new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1251	It was nice to hear the council pointing to some things. But what will you do as a result of the new figures that the Evening Post revealed, already before summer? Which of the proposals the Labour Party is promoting for the Storting now in May, does the government want to support? Could the Council of State, for example, support the proposal to have a concrete overview of children left behind in the country of origin of the family? Or could the Council of State plan to support our proposal to give embassies a better opportunity to help children home by giving them a clearer basis for issuing emergency passports to minors without parental consent and giving them a better opportunity to finance their children's return trip? Or could the Council of State support our proposal to impose on schools, kindergartens, Nav and others who are told that the children are left for long periods of stay abroad, that they must quickly report the concerns of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1256	Now it is the Stortingen and the large-scale groups here who decide which proposals should be supported, but I have explained in a longer letter to the Justice Committee that most of the proposals made by the Workers' Party have either been implemented or are in the process of implementation. That being said, I have an open and inviting attitude to what action is to be taken. This is not party politics; this is a common responsibility we have as a society to secure children and young people the right to decide on their own lives and live their own lives. So I'm also open to considering new measures, but the proposals the Labour Party has promoted in the Stortinget are, in general, already under way. I can also assure the representative that there will be a reinforced effort by the government before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1263	Thank you for your answers, Councillor. I also wonder if you have money with you, whether it will bring money to the reinforced effort that comes before the summer, or is it just talking about investigations and enhanced cooperation? We have heard beautiful words about the integration strategy to come. We hope that the work against social control will become an important topic in this work as well. Will the Council of State provide targeted measures in the strategy to combat social control? If it is to be really strengthened, the government must also give this work a purely economic priority. How much money does the Council of State see itself having to allocate to the field in order to implement its new policy and integration mandate, as the Council of State calls it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1274	The President reminds the representative that all speeches must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1279	I am well in the process of developing the government's integration promise, a strategy that is presented before Christmas. I now use the time before summer to travel all over the country – from north to south and from east to west – to look at the good examples, because there is a lot of good work going on in many municipalities by many non-governmental organisations. I think it's important that we learn from those who actually succeed. Yes, we are making new proposals before the summer, and this will also involve money in that work. I would like to stress that this is not just about money, it is also about ensuring the information – that it goes from school to municipal health to child protection, that we make sure that there is information exchange and that nothing goes wrong along the way. There's going to be an offensive strategy, negative social control is going to be one of the main pillars of that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1291	‘The Government has decided to move the Parent Committee for the initial training, FUG’ – and the Parent Committee for Kindergarten, FUB, which unfortunately fell out of my question – ‘to Bø, but FUG’ – and FUB – ‘reports that the Ministry has not established a good plan for the relocation process and that this is now at the expense of the operation and the work of the sample’. – It is worth remembering that this is a matter of two free and independent selections appointed by the King of State Council, based on the Training Act, to be eager guards, especially against the government. I don't think the Council of State wants the process of the move to go at the expense of the operation and the important work that the samples do as the parents' clear voice. – ‘Do the Council of State intend to initiate a proper impact assessment of a move of FUG’ – and FUB – ‘and at least ensure that one avoids more than one move process, including considering a postponement of the move?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1300	The President must remind the representative that he is going to repeat the question as originally asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1305	For the blue-green government, it is important to spread power and facilitate growth and development across the country. This means, among other things: emphasising that state jobs can and should be located around our country. The Government will follow Up Plan for the location of State workplaces, which was at Notify. St. 18 for 2016–2017, Resilient cities and strong districts. State jobs can contribute to more dynamic and well-functioning labour markets, with better recruitment opportunities for businesses and better career opportunities for workers. In general, state jobs should contribute to building and strengthening national environments of competence. In addition, I think it is good for the state and our businesses to recruit from all over the country, and that employees in the state have perspectives and background from all parts of our country. The decision to move the ten jobs in the Secretariat of the Parental Committees from Oslo to Bø in Telemark is part of the move of a total of 60 State jobs in the knowledge sector. The Ministry of Knowledge's underlying activities have been assessed by the Ministry and several establishments are to move jobs out of Oslo. This was, of course, a political decision, where businesses were not withdrawn. However, the Secretariat has been closely involved in implementation since the decision was taken. It is in line with practice. The members of the Parenting Committee for kindergartens and the Parenting Committee for Primary Education come from all over the country. The Secretariat shall assist the selections in their work. The two selections work mainly to create better cooperation between kindergartens and homes, and homes and schools. Such cooperation takes place every day throughout the country, and the work of the Secretariat for FUG and FUB can be done well, including from Bø in Telemark. With modern working methods and technology, geographical distance is less relevant. An important task for the selections is to work against different authorities in Oslo. Therefore, the government has chosen a location for the sample secretariat with affordable travel routes and relevant and well-developed collective services. We believe that the Secretariat will take good care of Bø and be a positive offer in an area that is already recruiting high-skilled workers, such as women. University of Southeast Norway and Telemark research. It has been decided in Prop 1 S that the Secretariat should be moved to Bø during 2018. The Secretariat is responsible for the practical operation of the removal process and chooses the solution for permanent and, where appropriate, temporary premises, with the help of consultants from Staatsbyggen. We understand that it is demanding for employees to move jobs, and there is frequent contact between the ministry and the secretariat on the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1320	Let me thank you for the answer, even though at first it seemed most like it was the former municipal minister who replied, not the sitting minister of knowledge. I fully agree that it is important to spread power, and that is not so much what this issue is about, but the consequences of the decision that has been made. I also understand that both samples are not reluctant, but they want a better process. It is primarily the concerns of the council that I have received, which means that I now deal with this matter, where one reports that some of the staff are now disappearing, and that there has been a great deal of uncertainty about the move process. Not least, it is unfortunate that a person may have to have a temporary room only to meet this year’s requirement and therefore get a double move instead of possibly taking a little more time and looking at the consequences. Can't the Council of States come along and see if it's possible to just take some more time and get to a slightly better process, which can also be good for the samples?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1327	First, the representative need not be surprised that the Minister of Knowledge is also being heard as a municipal minister. We are one government, and we have one policy in this area. For us, it's important that we move jobs out of Oslo and use the skills environments around the country. It'll always be a demanding process to carry out, but for us it's not time to postpone the move. This is notified, and it is fully feasible to implement. We feel that there is a good dialogue between the Ministry and the Secretariat, and we have also extended the working period for the Parental Board of Kindergartens by one year to ensure continuity and quality of work until the Secretariat is properly established in Bø.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1334	My concern is primarily about whether the Minister of Knowledge is taking over and seeing the seriousness of the concern that came from the samples. As I said, I didn't feel that the samples are reluctant, but that most of all they want a better process. They want them to be more involved in the decision and to a greater extent taken seriously by the ministry. They have pointed out to me a lack of involvement. They have also underlined this in their letter to the Minister of Knowledge in January 2018. In this process too, very well known, although there has been a wish from the samples, there has been no meeting between the Council of State and these two samples. So if the Council of State in this room doesn't want to meet my concerns, at least he can try to get to before the summer if no other meeting between the Council of State and these samples, so that he gets to see and take seriously the concerns they're promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1339	We follow the process closely, and there is dialogue between the ministry and the parental committees on the implementation of the decision. But I want to make it clear that the decision is being implemented. Anything else I think would be very unfortunate. The Government has been given the approval of the Stortinget to move out the workplaces. There's an affordable distance to Bø in Telemark, there's good environments of competence there, and I'm absolutely sure they're going to do an excellent job from Bø, too. The question is also what role the Workers' Party is now taking into account in the discussions about state jobs and relocation from Oslo – whether it is such that the Workers' Party is now going to put chains in the wheels and prevent state jobs from being moved out, or whether they will support the government in this important work. I am absolutely sure that we will be able to get a strong and good both FUG and FUB in Bø in Telemark, and that they will be able to continue their good work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1346	We are now going to deal with question 6, but the questioner, the representative of Mona Fagerås, is not present in the Chamber. We're going to go to question seven.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1354	The question is: ‘There are good applicants for the civil engineering subjects. Entrepreneurs want more apprentices and contracting authorities are required to demand apprentices for the projects according to the apprenticeship regulations. However, there appears to be an imbalance between the supply of school places, apprenticeships and skilled workers and the demand from industry. Higher costs than for other training programmes are exacerbating the situation. How will the Council of State ensure that several construction companies receive the apprentices and the skills they demand?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1363	I am pleased that the development of the professional professions is positive both in the case of applicants for the professions, in the number of new apprentices and in the number of apprenticeships. This is important in order for us as a society to have important and proper competences. The Committee on Competences presented its first report in February, which estimated that we would lack some 70 000 skilled workers by 2035. If we fail to close this gap, as a society, we will have problems in doing important tasks in so-called all sectors and sectors. The government's professional investment results. It's going in the right direction. In the last five years, the number of apprentices in the public sector has increased sharply. More complete and take a diploma. The proportion of pupils applying for vocational training is increasing for the second consecutive year. There have never been any more apprenticeships, and the rate of apprenticeship is the highest since 2011. We're doing a good job lifting, but we're not on target. In order to help solve this challenge, the government has increased the grant to the apprenticeships by NOK 21000 per apprenticeship contract through the vocational training profession. We have introduced requirements for the use of apprentices to win public tenders. This requirement requires the contracting entity to use the apprenticeship clause in the case of public tenders. This requirement applies to sectors where there is a need for apprenticeships, and is to be imposed on both Norwegian and foreign enterprises. We also change the structure of the professions and make them more motivating for students, with previous specialisation and more practical correction of the professions. If you are to become a carpenter, you will learn more from the timber trade and less about others. The question of civil engineering shows that the government's efforts are working. There has been growth in the number of applicants at both school and apprenticeship places, and there has been a marked increase in the number of apprenticeships in civil engineering. Since 2013, the number of school students in civil engineering has increased by 25 pst, and new apprenticeships in the trade have increased by 47 pst. Construction is one of the study programmes on Vg1 which increases most from last year and now has the highest number of applicants since 2008. It is joyful and does not least help to ensure that many key infrastructure tasks will be solved in the future. The Government will continue its efforts in the professional fields. It is the county councils that are responsible for the school offer that provide the basis for applying for an apprenticeship in the civil engineering field. It is important that county municipalities monitor the development of their regional labour markets and the dimensions of their supply in a good way. The growth in school places suggests that county municipalities are following up the increase in demand for apprenticeship space in the construction sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1382	I thank you for your answer. Norwegian trade union workers stand out and are in demand. Many skilled workers also set up enterprises, and there are figures of over 25 000 skilled workers in Norway each year and of as many as 700,000 skilled workers employed. Nevertheless, there is enormous demand in some disciplines, and future skills needs are crying out for skilled workers — to which the Council of State also refers. It is still not clear enough to me how the Council of State in its work on and through the renewal and modification of the structure of secondary education should maintain the link between needs, demand, offers and recruitment to the professions. What action does the Council of State take specifically to see this in the context?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1391	In general, we see, as I referred to in my first post, that it's going in the right direction. This is because many are moving in the same direction, not least the social partners are making a great deal of effort to talk about the professions, and the government is providing concrete measures. The new thing that is now coming, which is already announced, is a change in structure, which makes the structure and subjects more adapted to today's and tomorrow's demand. It would be wrong for me to sit in Oslo and control detail how to do this in the counties and in the regions. There's an important division of labour here. It is the countries responsible for their territory that, in cooperation with industry, with the parties, must contribute to a proper dimensioning, which is adapted to the needs of the labour and business sectors as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1396	It's very interesting to deal with here. Although there are many positive numbers to refer to, we also know that the drop-out in secondary education is too high, and unfortunately especially in professional education. There are, of course, several reasons for that. The fact is, in any case, that society needs these skilled workers, and these students need an education and a direction in life. Recruitment of vocational teachers is one challenge, another being the equipment and costs of operating the vocational programme. The central party in its alternative state budget promoted far more resources for professional equipment than the government received in the Stortinget. The increased specialisation and change in the structure of the professions, to which the Council of State referred, can strengthen the motivation of students — which is good — but at the same time weaken the offer of each secondary school. Will the State Council look at spending more money on the professional and equipment needed to complete the professional occupations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1401	The government has now contributed additional funds in the professional sector that we are implementing, and we are going to continue – precisely because we have the same understanding as the representative, that we must help to ensure that more young people complete, more lives, more are given apprenticeships and more are given professional letters. We need the skills, and therefore there is a need for a broad commitment. I agree that the dropout is still too high, but we should also be glad that it's coming down. The fact that several complete, several pass and several receive professional letters shows that important choices have been made. We also have to follow that up in the years that are coming. I agree that there is a wide variety of equipment in individual vocational and secondary schools. It is particularly important that schools cooperate well with business. I am sure that you also want contributions from the public, but I would like to stress the importance of working with the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1410	Now we're going to deal with question 8, but the Council of State is not present in the Chamber. We're going to go to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1419	‘The development plan for the Hospital Telemark HF 2014–2016 provided clear commitments for the development of a strengthened decentralised specialist healthcare service provision. Now experience the opposite of Rjukan, with reductions in staffing and reduced operational days. The health undertaking justifies this on the basis of the patient basis. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the development plan of the Hospital Telemark HF is followed up with regard to decentralised health services and outpatient services?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1426	The Hospital Telemark has had a development plan until 2030, and it is now up to date by 2035. All health establishments are now reviewing their development plans. The development plans for health enterprises must ensure the overall health supply in the region and must be seen together. I have therefore asked health regions to develop regional development plans with a time horizon up to 2035. This work shall be completed in December of this year. The regional plans shall summarise the development plans of health establishments against the overall ‘provide’ responsibilities and capacity needs of the regions. The Hospital Telemark has been working to update the development plan until 2035. I have asked Health South-East and the Hospital Telemark to explain the status of the offer on Rjukan. The Telemark Hospital points out that the Rjukan offer is an outpatient offer for planned activity adapted to the needs of the population. They write: «The planned outpatient activity in internal medicine, dialysis, radiology, surgery and orthopaedics continues as before, but the offer is concentrated over three days instead of five days a week.» There are, as we know, no emergency functions on Rjukan. The Hospital Telemark indicates that it is therefore possible to collect the operation to three days a week instead of spreading it over several days. I assume that any changes in the service provision at Rjukan ensure efficient resource use and are based on a professional assessment of what is appropriate in relation to the needs of the population. At the company meeting in 2014, I confirmed a decision by the board of directors of the Hospital Telemark HF to terminate the emergency functions at Rjukan, but this did not mean that the development plan was otherwise confirmed by me. The need for specialist health services will change over time. A development plan may point to the desired direction of development for hospitals in the healthcare undertaking, the measures necessary to meet the challenges of the future and shall support a general common objective. However, minor in-flight changes could always occur during a planning period, as a result of current assessments related to day-to-day operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1442	In this discussion, many people notice that the Sjukehuset Telemark has tough savings requirements and by 2023 it has to remove 126 annual works or save more than 200 million. kr. Many see this requirement in the context of a reduction in Rjukan, i.e. that the foundation is not professional or based on patient needs, but that it is simply a way of balancing the budget. So this thing has a history. There were many who stressed what was in the development plan that a well-decentralized supply would come. I would like to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State see this as a good follow-up to what was in the 2014 development plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1449	As I explained in my reply, new development plans are now being drawn up for hospitals in Norway, and they will be brought together in regional plans to be completed in December. It would be natural for one then to look at the composition of offers and adapt them to the needs of the population. As regards the requirements to balance the economy at the Hospital Telemark, they are no different from those of other hospitals. Hospitals must be able to operate within the limits granted to them by the Storting and at the same time have the possibility of own funds for the investments they face. The Telemark Hospital has had major migration challenges. The changes we made in the hospital structure in Telemark were just an important contribution to helping the Hospital Telemark to better solve the problem for the whole of Telemark in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1458	I would like to ask the Council of State if the Hospital of Telemark has actually saved some money to shut down the emergency services at Rjukan and Kragerø. That calculation would have been good to see, because I know that it has our challenges also with the other hospital practitioners, and that there is still a very difficult economic situation. But it's interesting to hear the Council say that a development plan is not binding, but only a desire and an ambition for how this can be done, and that this has to be constantly adjusted. Then it's also hard for the people to take seriously what's in these plans, which many people see as a promise from the Storing and Government, especially when they lose their emergency functions. One said in the 2014 development plan that there should be a steady assessment of what an additional person can decentralise. Does the Council of State see it as a possibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1465	Yes, it is a very important management within the national health and hospital plan that tasks that are sensible to decentralise should be decentralised, and what needs to be centralised should be centralised – precisely in order to ensure a good offer at local level. However, if one can concentrate an offer planned for the population, which is not an emergency offer, in fewer days, and thus ensure that one gets used the resources better for the entire population, it makes sense. I believe that the representative agrees that it makes sense, so that a person can make good use of health professionals, competences and resources for the whole population. I don't think there can be any doubt that if the Hospital Telemark had been required to maintain the emergency services both in Rjukan and in Kragerø, the economic challenges they face would have been significantly greater than they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1474	So we go back to question 8. The President must draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that he himself has a responsibility to be present in the Grand Duchy when the questions are asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1484	‘The last estimates for the Giant Free E39 project are staggering 340 billion kroner. Several of the fjord crossings have been calculated as subsea tunnels. This applies, among other things, to Rogfast and the Moorax. In addition to planning and construction costs, significant maintenance costs are incurred. The Council of State may state how much it is calculated for maintenance costs per year. years for these two tunnel projects, where necessary total renovation has also been taken in, and may he indicate when total renovation is necessary?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1491	Let me first regret that I did not meet in time. It's not going to repeat itself. I thank you for the question. It's important that we are aware of the total cost of what we're building. Both on the road and by rail, a three-digit billion-dollar investment is required in the years ahead. Then we have to make sure that there are projects that we think are useful, that provide good value for money and that have a long-term horizon. When we talk about the ferry-free E39, there's a lot of money there, but we have to remember that it's a very long distance. We're talking about road projects from Kristiansand to Trondheim, a stretch it takes several days to drive – just to put it in perspective. The solutions you choose are customizable. That means that some places work brown, some places work underwater tunnel. Operation and maintenance of subsea tunnels is expensive compared to road today; there is no doubt, in the same way that bridge is more expensive than road. However, technical solutions for Rogfast and Møreak have not yet been chosen and an estimate of future operational and maintenance costs will be filled with considerable uncertainty. However, on a general basis, one might say that the operation and maintenance of the underwater tunnels that we have today cost approx. Four million. kr per kilometre per tunnel running per year. This includes the temporary replacement of equipment, such as: fan and vault, over the lifetime of the tunnel. Costs of any new measures by the authorities will be added. But what you have costs approx. 400 million. kr, including the reinvestments. The lifetime of equipment varies. Therefore, it is also difficult to estimate. If one chooses a concrete vault, it's expensive when one builds, but it has a very long life span. On the other hand, if one chooses a more reasonable injection rate, it has a shorter life span than a concrete vault. Once again, mountain types and so on. decide what a choice is when a decision is made as to how a choice is to be built. The solutions to be chosen are assessed in the planning phase of each project, and it is difficult, as I said, to estimate how often things have to be replaced and what the total costs are. But, as I said, experience based numbers are 4 million. kr per year. Therefore, it is generally a desire that we build as much as possible today when we build. But we know that some places would be desirable to put the road in the tunnel because of security, because of neighbors, etc. In the case of fjord crossings, technology will be involved and decide. Rogfast is a long distance, and what is continuous when a building under the sea, is that there are long distances where bridge technically might not be possible. In some places floating bridges can be a technology that becomes more and more applicable. It is important that the Vegvesen in the E39 project work all the way with technology opportunities. I myself have been to several conferences where the Vegvesen update both themselves and others on where the technology is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1502	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the Council of State takes these costs seriously, but I haven't seen clear figures for the two concrete projects I'm talking about. Is it not incredibly important that such figures be available before the decision-making authorities also have to make a decision on such a case locally? I also know that there are numbers that say that the total renovation of such tunnels can come up very quickly in the same amount as the construction costs for the first time. It's just kind of scary. By using e.g. figures presented in the case papers for the Nordøyvegen in the county, adjusted around 20 pst. for the higher standard on the Moorax, this may at least mean 200 million. kr plus plus plus, and probably the numbers that the Council of State is now giving will be even higher. Does not such calculations concern the State Council for the reassessment of the entire project?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1507	It's important that we have lifetime costs with us when we build. One of the underlying features of our OPS projects is that one must have both construction and maintenance for a given number of 10 years afterwards. There is also some of the things that Nye Weger has spent a lot of time building their roads. The cost of maintenance did not come as a surprise, and our government has doubled the appropriations for maintenance of both road and rail because it has been down priorities before. There is once again a reminder that if you don't maintain the priority of maintenance, it's very easy to build new ones without worrying about how to fit it. I believe that our government has shown that we see that whole thing. But once again, it's important that when we build something, we build it with a standard that we see is cost-effective in the long term, and that we know that we'll be able to keep up. So, standard choices, etc. must be part of the job done by Vegvesen when planning this. We've been very clear about that. At the same time, we should not forget that these roads have value in value. That one does not need roads because it costs to maintain them, I disagree. It's of great benefit to society that they're being built.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1512	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State is obviously aware that there is a strong local commitment to finding a cheaper alternative to the Møre axis, avoiding the underwater tunnel, namely the so-called Romsdal axis. For us in SV, it's as well-known emission-free ferries with frequent departures that are the first choice, but in our eyes, the Romsdal axis is probably the best of two bottoms, to use that expression. About this option, Prime Minister Erna Solberg says to Romsdal's Budstikke on 23 April this year, when she was visiting the area, that the Moorax is fixed, and that the election is taken. Does the Council share this perceptive opinion, which actually ties in with new investigations when new information and a new situation have arisen? We can balance with the InterCity postponement, which was justified by just new knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1517	InterCity we're going to build, and new knowledge is about how we're going to build it. When you find more mercury than you thought you found, you don't build houses on sand, but on stone, and the railway obviously has to be built on stone. So it's about how we're going to do it. That doesn't mean we're building the railroad somewhere else. In terms of emissions, I am also concerned that we should cut emissions in the transport sector. I hear SV swears primarily to zero-emission ferries. I think we'll be able to get a significant amount of emission-free cars, which means that, regardless of whether we sail or move on a road, we'll be able to eliminate the emissions, at least from the drive, even if a person likes to have a lifetime production that makes it even emissions from emission-free cars. With regard to the choice of trasé, it was made after major investigations by the government. I'm familiar with the discussion where my party traps are also engaged. I'll let them take that discussion locally and see if I get new majority signals from there before I get involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1526	So we go to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1534	‘How many annual works are used for child protection award bureaucracies, and how many of them are necessary for the follow-up and supervision of commercial providers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1539	As you know, public responsibility for child protection is exercised by both the state, at Bufetat, and the municipalities. Both levels of government make acquisitions from private actors and a diversity of services is acquired. There are no figures for annual work used for this in the municipalities, and the question from the representative must therefore be limited to the resource use in Bufetat. Bufetat assists the municipalities when they are located outside the home. The responsibility can be exercised by purchasing from private persons, as well as by placements in their own actions, and the action chosen for each individual child must be sound. The use of resources in the selection of the right measures, the approval of the measure and the quality assurance of the measure is the same, regardless of whether Bufetat performs its obligation to provide assistance solely by its own means or whether measures are purchased from private suppliers. A large part of the resource use in Bufetat is therefore the same, regardless of whether private or public measures are chosen. In total, it can be estimated that about 20 annual works are linked to these functions. However, I would like to make it clear that this resource use includes both non-profit and commercial actors, as the process and tasks are essentially independent of the type of private operator involved. The ideal actors represent something less than half of the private measured on weekdays. At the same time, resources are used for the implementation of a separate procurement procedure reserved for non-profit institutions serving households, and therefore there are no figures for how many of the abovementioned annual works are related solely to the purchase of the commercial ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1548	It was an interesting answer, especially in the light of the fact that commercialisation is a main priority for this government within the State Children's Protection Area. We see that the growth of tenders in private, commercial measures is larger than in public action. Positions and money must be given priority to the children, says the Workers' Party. It is particularly important that municipal child protection has enough people to meet all the kids who need help and prevent. Earlier in this Chamber, the Council of State has called this a historical investment in posts. It's a statement that I find quite strange. And even though the Council of State can't now say concretely which year of employment goes by, the growth of annual work in municipal child protection is only 90 during this government. What is the reason why municipal child protection is not strengthened anymore?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1563	It is interesting to discuss so-called privatisation of welfare and child protection. The so-called privatisation really speeded under the red-green – with the Workers' Party and SV in the management. The state, which should be responsible for providing the most vulnerable children with good and individually adapted measures, was not ready for this, because there was too much capacity and action. We saw that private people came on the track and have managed to adapt measures for individual children. It is very unfortunate that the Workers' Party has decided to abolish all the commercial players, and I look forward to how the Workers' Party will manage to provide all children in Norway who need a specially tailored offer, the solution they are entitled to, when half of the country's commercial players will not be allowed to come. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1568	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1573	With all due respect to report, it seems that the historic bet that the government has boasted of in the hall today is hanging in an incredibly thin thread. For the historical promise under this government is that there have never been so many reports and supervisory statements that show how much is wrong with child protection, and the government does nothing. And in terms of those positions: I have the survey section overview here. The government has not prioritised a single position – not one post – as long as they have been in charge of the budget. Not one post has gone to municipal child protection. Now, when the Council of State says that it is a ‘historical bet’ and she can’t point out how much of the resources go to the local government’s bidding bureaucracy, I’m going to ask: What is the historical investment in?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1580	That's not what the representative Henriksen says. It's a historic bet. Municipal Child Protection increased by more than 900 posts between 2013 and 2017. There is a rare — and earmarked — bet on child protection employees in municipalities. We are committed to having good offers and measures in the vicinity of where the children live. Therefore, we have actively taken action to improve child protection in municipalities, so that municipalities can enter early, they can prevent, go in with relief measures, so that we avoid more serious incidents. We have now launched a large-scale competence strategy, in addition to the major child protection reform, which will provide us with better child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1588	Then we go back to question 6, from the representative of Mona Fagerås to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration. And I remind the representative that she herself is responsible for being present when to ask the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1596	I'm so sorry. I can owe nothing but my own inexperience. On 12 March of this year, the Minister of Knowledge received a signed reply to a question on the relocation of the FUB and FUG Secretariat. The Minister then replied that he was satisfied with the process of relocation of the Secretariat, and that the plans are so solid and facilitate the continuation of the selection process. The process shall be pursued further through an ordinary dialogue between the Ministry and the Secretariat and the selection bodies. Nevertheless, I am receiving – and also the representative Tvedt Solberg – alarming messages that the implementation of the removal decision in the case of FUG, which has not been properly investigated, seems to weaken the secretariat’s competence. Then my question is: ‘Is the Council of State committed to having a strong and well-functioning parental selection for kindergarten and school and its high-quality secretariat, and in that case does the Council of State consider this to be ensured through the process of moving?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1607	The President reminds the representative that she should only speak the written question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1612	The short answer to the question is yes. I have also just answered a question from the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg about the same issue, and I would therefore like to repeat some of the same assessments in my reply to the representative Mona Fagerås. The Parental Board of Kindergartens and the Parental Committee of Primary Education have established themselves as important voices for parents to participate and be heard in the social debate related to kindergartens and schools. I believe that the selections work well and actively in caring for parents' interests in the cooperation between kindergarten/school and home. The parental committees provide important advice and input to the ministry and education authorities and guidance to kindergartens, schools and parents on good cooperation between home and kindergarten/school. The selections are particularly valuable in discussion and policy development in areas where the border between kindergarten and school homes is important, for example. work on early intervention and on bullying in kindergarten and school. Following the political decision to move the secretariat of the selections from Oslo to Bø in Telemark, the Ministry has closely followed up and cooperated with the Secretariat on the implementation of the transfer, in line with good practice in such processes. The Secretariat shall assist the selections in their work. The members of the parental committees come from all over the country, and cooperation between homes, kindergartens and schools takes place every day throughout the country. The work of the Secretariat for the Parental Committees can also be done well from Bø in Telemark. With modern working methods and technology, geographical distance is less relevant. An important task for the selections is to work against different authorities in Oslo. Therefore, the government has chosen a location for the sample secretariat with affordable travel routes and relatively well-developed collective services. We believe that the Secretariat will fit well into Bø and be a positive contribution in an area that is already recruiting high-skilled workers, such as women. University of Southeast Norway and Telemarks Research. I understand that it is demanding for employees to move their jobs. It affects both the individual and the activity of the Secretariat for a period of time. We have a close dialogue with the Secretariat on how to handle this, and I feel that we are facilitating and taking this into account. Among other things, we have extended the working period for the Orphanage Committee by one year to ensure continuity and quality of work until the Secretariat has properly established itself in Bø. There has been close contact between the Ministry and the Secretariat throughout the process. Among other things, a separate work has been organised with members of the Secretariat and the Ministry to facilitate the best possible process for the transfer of the Secretariat to Bø. I feel that there has been and is a good dialogue between the Ministry and the Secretariat and between the Secretariat and the committees on dealing with the challenges associated with the forthcoming relocation. I am therefore satisfied with the process of moving so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1629	One thing is the relocation of state jobs. I do not think the Minister finds one representative in this Chamber who agrees more with him than I do that is important and necessary. Another thing is that when you're going to move out state jobs, the processes have to be good. Now we have received messages, constant messages, both the representative Tvedt Solberg and I, that this process has not been good – it has not been proven to be competent, and it weakens the secretariat's competence. Could it not then be a good idea that the minister sat down with representatives from FUG and FUB and found a good solution for the further process, instead of just running through what was actually just a year ago decided?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1634	Firstly, it is important to stress that the decision to move is political. It has to be. However, after the decision was taken, there has been good dialogue with the Secretariat and the Parent Committee for Primary Education and the Parent Committee for Kindergarten. The Ministry is in good contact with the Secretariat, and the Ministry represents me in those processes. So moving out ten jobs to Bø in Telemark thinks I'm affordable. It's a relatively short distance from Oslo, and there are good environments of competence that you can interact with in Bø. There are still some months left in 2018, and I assume that the decisions taken in the Storting will be followed up, and that they will be realised within the deadlines given.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1639	I asked if it could not have been a good idea that the minister would sit down and find a good solution for the further process because we get feedback that the process has not been good. I don't think the minister answered that. If he responded, he replied in that case that he was not interested in having a dialogue with the Parent Committee. I think it would have been a good idea that the minister had it, but I did not get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1644	I've been through several such emigration processes. The blue and blue-green government has moved out far more jobs than the red-green government did. I know it's demanding. I know that in such processes there will always be concrete questions. It will be a wish for further investigation; there will be some who also want to make the decision. I think it's important to hold on to the fact that the decision has been made. It shall be implemented, and there shall be good and close dialogue between the Ministry, representing me, and the parental committees and the Secretariat. My experience is that there has been such contact, such contact and still will be, so that the relocation can be carried out in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1649	Then we go to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1657	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration the following questions: «The Twitter police are a positive innovation in quickly informing the public and the media about current events. It often helps to calm down and prevent speculation and insecurity. The population is waiting to check the police's Twitter messages when something happens in their environment. Then they can also feel that there is nothing on Twitter, even if the police are involved. Has the Ministry or the Police Directorate provided guidance on the use of Twitter by the police, and does the Council of State agree that there may be a need to improve and clarify them?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1666	It is correct, as the representative Jan Bøhler says, that the police use Twitter from time to time to quickly provide information. The Police Directorate has recently established guidelines for the use of Twitter at the Operation Centres, which inform the public and the media about incidents. Twitter guidelines provide guidance for language and content. The Directorate of Police reports that the guidelines were completed just before Easter and are therefore recently anchored in relevant settings. Thus, I can see no immediate reason why they should be improved or clarified. However, the Police Directorate follows Twitter practices and discusses in professional networks how the police can continuously improve communication with the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1673	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I was not aware that new guidelines had been put in place just before Easter – I don't think there has been so much public dissemination. I thank you for the information. But I would like the Council of State to be able to deepen its understanding of this, because I've been getting enquiries ever since the last few months from the audience who's been recording incidents in their neighborhood, where the police are out with an intruder and more cars and sometimes with police helicopters. When they immediately applied for Twitter, they did not find any information. Then, for example: The night rains were attacked with stones a week ago at Westli – which has become a big issue – and apparently there was nothing on the police's Twitter service about this. On a general basis, does the Council agree that it is important to use the Twitter service in such situations to calm and inform the public so that they can be aware of what is happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1682	I am among those who think that Twitter as an information source for the audience is good. There are many other information methods that are also considered and to be used. But Twitter is good. That's why you've actually made the guidelines – and it's quite right that they're so fresh that we haven't evaluated them. It's natural to do it after a while and see if they work properly. But the guidelines also contain rules on language and form and how to express yourself. There may also be many reasons why the police do not immediately inform on Twitter. There may be questions about the identification of persons, there may be research tactical reasons, and it may also be part of the guidelines that one should not speculate if one does not have actual information. But otherwise, I think it is right that the police inform, and I think it can also have a soothing effect. So we'll have to take this round a little bit later when we see how the guidelines worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1689	I would like to thank the Council of State for its additional comments. It's understandable that there may be police tactical reasons why you don't put things out on Twitter. But it is hard to understand that when the police move out with an intruder, with a number of other cars and with police helicopters etc. so that everyone sees that there is a heavy police presence here, that the residents should not then be able to know why the police are there, or at least be informed in the form that it is possible that the police are present, and that they, for example, are present. is in control of the situation. It's obvious that those who the police are after know that the police are there when they're present so massive, so you don't reveal any secret to the criminal actors. It's more a comment than a question, but I think it's important here that the police are as consistent as possible in informing the audience and thus calming and disclosing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1696	I don't want to comment on the specific episode that Bohemia mentioned, so it has to be general. The general one is two-part. Twitter is a tool to use. That's why we have guidelines for that. Then it's clear that there's not just police tactical reasons for that. There are also many important leads that are put on how the police should express and formulate themselves, and that also insist that the police are a department that should not speculate. That means you're going to have actual information, and that's not always the same as you've been given it. But I believe the undersigned and the representative of Bohemia agree with the basics here, that it is an important and fine source of information, which I have followed before he became Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1706	‘The draft selection inquiry for the East has now been under way for a while. Given that the new Agder prison is soon completed – when does the Council of State think that concrete plans for new prison in the East will be presented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1713	The government has given priority to increasing the capacity of criminal justice. During the government period, the capacity for the implementation of high-level prison sentences has been increased by 316 places. 300 prison sites will be completed in Agder by 2020. Net, they're going to give us a 180-point grant. This is a big boost to criminal justice. The government has also prioritised the use of penalties in society, through increased use of criminal enforcement with electronic control. The capability of electronic control has been increased by 255 places during the government period and currently represents approximately 500 places. 242 high-level locations in the Netherlands will be closed when the agreement expires in August this year. Pending the use of new prisons in Agder, the need for high-level prisons will be met by doubling places in Norway. The measures taken to increase capacity have been effective. The queue to serve unconditional judges is now marked shorter than when today's government took over, and there is better capacity to meet the police's need for detention. When the government took over in October 2013, 1,213 judges were expected to pay, while the corresponding figure was 142 judges in early April 2018. Several of the prison properties have large maintenance facilities, which also leads to high investment needs. It must be strictly prioritised within the economic framework that exists. Oslo prison is one of the prisons with the highest maintenance needs. The prison is particularly important to meet police needs for custody capacity in the Oslo area. There is a need to assess the situation and the future solution for Oslo prison. The Ministry has therefore launched a draft selection inquiry for Oslo Prison, which follows up the investigation for the East. The government will respond appropriately to the needs for follow-up and investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1728	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State is probably not quite concrete, I experience, when he points to the new prison structure of the East. The Labour Party has been engaged in a decentralised housing structure that preserves a diversity of criminal services. Today, in the East, we have a good variation in the prison structure, where the unique prisons play an important role. Although several of our prisons have an obvious need for building mass improvement, it is not certain that everyone should and should be laid down in the future. The Labour Party is very concerned that part of the unique prisons in the East, such as Hassel, Kleivgrend and the women's prison in Sandefjord, will suffer the same arbitrary treatment on the part of the government as the Stortinget just put an end to when it came to Osterøy at Bergen incarceration. Can the Council of State reassure us in the Labour Party in our concern about these prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1737	It is the concept selection inquiry for the East that determines the need. It has been implemented and has made some recommendations, including both the construction of new and the expansion of existing ones. We also have to look at closures. What is the starting point here is that the concept selection investigation for the East provided 250 places in Oslo. It's a big maintenance run in Oslo. We must then decide how we can solve it, if there is a basis for building a whole new prison in Oslo. Then we'll decide on the entire round for the rest of the East. In any case, the aim is to make the impact assessment for Oslo quite quickly and quality assurance during the first half of 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1746	It is good that the Council of State responds to Oslo prison, which I agree has a great need for development. Nevertheless, I cannot record that the Council of State answers my questions about the rest of the East. I also remember that the Council of State in a previous reply with the undersigned here from these interlocutors said something like that he had an understanding of the need of the Labour Party for policemen throughout the country, but that he had greater problems understanding the Workers' Party's wish for prisoners scattered throughout the country. On that occasion, I wonder whether the Council of State can assure me as a representative that he has understood the importance of the principle of subsidiarity, which is a supporter of Norwegian criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1753	I can assure you that I have. What is happening in the crime scene, which is reflected in the criminal investigation, and which is also reflected in the need for prison sites, is that we need high-security sites. They will necessarily have to be fewer, because safer and larger are being built, while the need for low security sites has been reduced, because we have introduced new housing conditions, inter alia. footlinks. This requires a review of the prison structure. It's not because someone has thought that prisons are bad, but it's because the result of how we punish people changes this picture. It is then reasonable that we evaluate all prison services, and in particular the low-security prisons. There are a number of plans for high-security prisons, and we are going to implement them. We are also going to review prisons in the East, which have already been notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1765	‘7. In March, the new East Police District Operation Centre in Ski was put into operation. At the same time, the three central centres were located in Lillestrøm, Ski and Sarpsborg. Both citizens and the media in Rome and Follo are reported to have found it harder to reach the operating centre again than before. How many calls has the new operating centre been handling since 7 March, how many calls have they not answered, how are these numbers compared before the change and what actions are taken to strengthen capacity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1772	I would like to begin by saying that I am happy to state that now all twelve police districts have set in motion new operating centres. This has strengthened the police service and the ability to be present when the population needs assistance. The foundation for a better police service has been laid through the creation of the new police districts with larger and more robust operational centres, better response capacities and stronger competences. By means of the close police reform, operational centres in all police districts have increased the number of operational posts. This helps to ensure that there may be more operators on duty at any time, so that simultaneous events can be managed. New East Police District Operation Centre was launched on 7 March this year. East police districts report that between 7 March and 15 April, they entered the Operation Centre for some years. 8 000 calls to emergency number 112 and approx. 15 600 calls to 02800. ==References== 120 of the calls to 112 have not been answered, have been cancelled or have been submitted. Otherwise, it is routine for the operating centre to call again lost calls to 112. A short time has elapsed since the establishment of the new district operating centre and comparable figures have not been developed before that date in view of results and trends in development. East police districts also inform us that there are no historical data for the central table. In March, the new operating centre responded to 112 calls within its national requirements. This shows an improvement after the transition from three to one operating centre. It is only for the emergency number I have requested for response time – that 95 pst. the calls must be answered within 20 seconds. Ensuring the security and security of the population is a high priority, but services must also be available with good service. This is a key goal for the police. After the establishment of the Operational Centre in East police districts, it is employed approximately. 25 new employees. They have been given the necessary training and training. Efforts are being made to further increase staffing and to put in place better technical solutions for the benefit of the public. I assume that the Chief of Police is implementing the measures necessary to ensure the safety and security of the population. East police districts recognize that there are sometimes too long waiting times on the central table and that it has been challenging for the media to get through on the press phone. The police want to be accessible to the media and, as compensation, have prioritised being quick on Twitter about events. It was by a large majority that the Stortinget concluded on the reform of the local police, including the strengthening of the operational centres. I believe that it is important that we give the police a place of work so that they can put the police reform into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1793	I thank you for your answer. Some numbers were given regarding calls to 112 – also unanswered calls. The council also gave some numbers for the number of calls to 02800, but I did not register that he gave any answer as to how many unanswered calls there are to 02800 – to which there have been very many calls then, more than 15 000. There are important calls that come in there, which can relate to life and health, but also to economic values. To what was said about the media: well, the media in Rome and in Follo have among other things. said: ‘After the police reform, it has become considerably more difficult for the press to reach the Operation Centre.’ In addition, it was said: ‘We had a good dialogue with the police in the past, but we feel that it has now become much worse.’ The newspaper Akershus Amtstidende, the magazine of the East and Moss Avis have logged that since March 8th they have called the police 25 times without getting any answers. Does the Council of State feel that this is an acceptable position on the part of the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1812	The response time requirements apply to the 112 number. That's the number that it's important to reach, because then it's life and health. It's that number that has priority all the time. So I also think it is important to remember that this is a central one that is now only allowed to work a few weeks. The police district reports that they think the waiting time has been too long, and they want to improve the service for everyone – including the press. But once again, what we're measuring, and what we're demanding in that area, are the important and serious events, and there are delivering the police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1821	It is very important that you also have an overview of how many unanswered calls there are to 02800. For a few years back — in 2013 — the police had an overview showing that there were 34 000 unanswered calls to that number at national level during a six-month period. Therefore, it is important for the population in the region to know how many unanswered calls there are, and whether an implementing measure is needed to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1826	This comes on top of the fact that it becomes more difficult for people in the area to get in touch with the police. One shuts down the janitor's office, and the remaining office gets shorter opening time. In Rome, until today, one has had two daily staff stations, at the Gardermoen and at Lillestrøm. They'll be gone in the future. Other offices have a significantly reduced opening time. And in the case of the remaining offices – we have had a debate here to strengthen the remaining Länsmannskontoret – I have now received a response from the Council of State saying that he is not implementing anything concrete in view of new steering signal to the police. [[President clubs]] How are we going to ensure better staffing for the police, better services in the future, when the Council of State does not follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1829	This was a matter for this alarm station. There is reason to remember that the reform of the neighbourhood police has just entered into force, and it is very important, in the light of the reform, that we allow the police officers to have both the job and the room for action to deal with the crime that is out there. Then it should be said that there are also statistics on the other calls, to 02800, which show that most are being answered, but that there is also reason for great improvements. What is the starting point for the Minister of Justice is the places where response time is required. That's what's important, because that's what matters to people's life and health. The other part, which concerns providing good service, I also think it is very important to follow up, and the police department also informs them that they want to improve that response time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1838	Then the ordinary question time has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-02.ana.ud147e1852	There is no record available. Thus, the map is currently processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
