ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e32	A number of permit applications are available: by the representatives of Ingunn Foss, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Carl-Erik Grimstad, Heidi Nordby Lunde, Per Olaf Lundteigen and Cecilie Myrseth on leave from 19 March to 21 March – all to attend the trade meeting of the EFTA Parliamentary Committees in London by the Central Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Emilie Enger Mehl from 20 March onwards. 14 to 23 March to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris from the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative of Hege Haukeland Liadal from 21 March to 28 March to take part in the 138th session of the Interparliamentary Union in Geneva
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e72	Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate for West Agder and Rogaland counties, Mathias Bernander and Julia Wong respectively, there is an application for exemption from meeting in the Stortinge under the representatives Ingunn Foss and Hege Haukeland Liadal's leave of absence, respectively, for welfare reasons. From the first alternate of the Akershus County, Martha Tärud, there is an application for exemption from meeting under the leave of the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik due to disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Vest-Agder County: Benedichte Limmesand Hellestøl 20.–21. March For Akershus County: Oddvar Igland 20-21. March For the Province of Buskerud: Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy 20–21. March For Hedmark County: Per Martin Sandtrøen 20. March kl. 14-21. March For Oslo: Mats Kirkebirkeland 20–21. March For Rogaland County: Tom Kalsås 21-22. March For the counties of Troms: Kari-Anne Opsal 20-21. March For the Westfold province: Kari-Lise Rørvik 20–21. March
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e161	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e170	Let me start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation. This is my first case rapporteurship, and then it is good to be able to present a coherent and unanimous attitude. I don't know if it's because the committee was going to make it easy for the fresh case rapporteur, but I'm choosing to believe that there are some values at the bottom of it so that we have an infrastructure that is necessary for everyone, and that also has a fair cost associated with it. This is a matter where I think we all agree on the intentions, that net is a good thing in everyone's life, but also a necessary good thing, regardless of where you live, or where you choose to run your diet. I also believe that the Committee can agree that there is a justice in the fact that network tariffs are not significantly different in terms of geography, city or country, south or north, fjord landscapes or soil landscapes – to put it a bit poetic. On the electricity bill in Norway, there are essentially two things we pay for. There is one price for the current itself, and there is one price for the transmission of the current in the mains power supply. As far as electricity is concerned, as we know, we can choose a supplier, but in terms of network rental, we are all offered the network company that owns the line into our house or the company we own or work in. This is a monopoly activity, strictly regulated by the NVE, but in short we can say that the network lease is two-tiered. One part shall cover the slit layer of the core network, the central network, or the transmission network, as it is called in the professional language. Another part shall cover the costs of the local and regional networks. Network costs are directly borne by network users. The network companies set a price based on the length of the network, number of subscribers, maintenance needs, etc. This means that costs vary greatly depending on both population, natural circumstances and the distance between subscribers. In this room, a network balancing scheme has been discussed before. Substantial amounts have also been allocated to the State budget to balance the most unreasonable differences in network rentals, while for the current year there is no arrangement or allocation that contributes to such balancing. Regardless of how this is done, it is essential to meet the need for socio-economically effective solutions both for operation and for the construction of future network structures. Nor should they contribute to increased red tape, either in public or in the respective network companies or for us as subscribers. The Committee may not agree on the definition of a fair rental network and on how this can best be achieved, but there is an overall committee which supports the requirement to know more about how this can be done and which today invites the Stortinget to take a decision to ask the government to consider different models for balancing net tariffs in Norway and to come back to the Stortinget with a case during the autumn. I look forward to further working in the Committee when such a case exists – there will probably also be a lot of policy – with the hope and goal of a better and fairer system of network tariffs in Norway for people and not least businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e183	The Workers' Party is also very concerned that we should have a similar – and preferably a similar – net-tariff-fleet across the country. We are pleased that we have now managed to gather around this proposal in the vote. We see that there are big differences per day. We're still concerned with simple ways of balancing. We're still concerned that we need efficiency requirements, and that we need to focus on it. But we are responding to the fact that in the past we have only had this discussion around the budget, one has been dependent on a budgetary agreement to promote measures that have given us a cohesion. I'm glad we're here. It's not long since we saw that this was not the government's wish. It's not long since we saw that a State Secretary went out against all the measures to smooth out the network rental, and it was claimed that one would collect money from efficient companies and benefits to inefficient companies, and that there was poor distribution policy. Now, when we're going to get an investigation, we're also dealing with cohesion and efficiency requirements. With that, I think it is good that we have come to the conclusion that the Stortinget asks the government to consider different models for balancing network tariffs in Norway. We look forward to returning to Stortinget on this as our own matter, and we will then contribute constructively.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e192	Since 2000, there have been many attempts to find good suggestions on how to achieve as fair a tariff system as possible. Both professional organisations, expert groups, NVE and others have worked with various suggestions for different solutions. The last time in 2014 was the setting up by the Ministry of Oil and Energy of an expert group to handle different models, but all were rejected due to weaknesses that made one unable to recommend any of them. It is important to maintain the principle that monopolies, such as the network companies, must have an incentive to keep costs down. The danger of supersampling will lead to the loss of this moment is definitely present. The power industry is facing major changes. Solutions that have worked well until now are not necessarily the best ones to meet in the future. Technological developments and changes in consumption and production patterns impose new requirements on the network operator. Plus houses, which deliver energy back to the web, are an example of this. It requires competence, and it requires new solutions. However, challenges also need to be addressed with the lowest possible cost and the highest possible security of supply. So we have seen a development that shows that there has been a decline in the number of online companies, a development that has taken place through consolidations and mergers. This has in many cases led to performance improvements and lower web rentals for the customer. Nor is there anything to suggest that the mergers have led to a poorer offer for the customer, nor has it gone beyond security of delivery. From our own region, a view of processes that are now well underway can be seen, with the hall and merger of several of our local power teams. One of the local managers says that this will lead to cheaper online rentals corresponding to NOK 6000 per year for a regular household with an average consumption of 20,000 kWh. Similarly, from 90 ores per kWh it is reduced to approximately 60 ores per kWh, a reduction of approximately 15 mill. kr for the municipality’s subscribers. In addition, the municipality receives a holding that will pay higher dividends and one has negotiated to maintain a position of competence in the municipality. The right is therefore certain that a consolidation to larger companies will be a good approach to achieving a more equal and smoother network lease in the country. We will increase competence, maintain jobs in the districts, strengthen the industry in the districts due to lower costs, better preparedness and, in this case, greater benefits to the municipality. Developments towards fewer companies will be an effective measure to mitigate tariffs as differences in cost base are spread across several online customers, with the largest impacts being reduced. Nevertheless, there are some regions and areas that may appear to have an additional burden with regard to the principle of distribution, especially those with large renewables. Such a situation should be looked at more closely and one should seek to find a fairer distribution of costs. When Right now supports the proposal for a decision, it is considered that in some areas we see the impropriety that causes network customers with high-renewable network output to take a higher cost burden when the input tariff is passed on to the central network. We must not get into the fact that municipalities say no to the creation of renewable projects because the pressures on online customers, both private and business, are too large for the districts and regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e209	Representative proposal 14 S for 2017-2018 is an order for the government to investigate different models for balancing network tariffs. Pursuing similar network rentals across the country is by itself not problematic, rather on the contrary, and I think most people here today agree on that. However, the problem is linked to its use. Many investigations have been carried out without good models being found, with the exception of measures leading to fewer companies. In this context, it must be said to be a paradox that the most effective and cheapest measure we have in order to bring down the level and ensure similar network rentals across the country is the action the majority is prepared to scrap on a later case today. Access to energy is an important infrastructure in any society. The public has a major task of ensuring that citizens and businesses have a safe supply at the lowest possible cost. I have to say that it is a bit funny that some people think that there is a need to go into tax money in an industry with monopoly. With that logic, the only difference that an invoice makes is the cost. The bill gets most people in any case, either taking their money over the tax bill or sending them an invoice in the post office afterwards. In other words, the cost and the real difference do not go down, a just allocates differently and at the same time eliminates all incentives for a more efficient operation. I fully agree with the aim of the proposers to reduce the differences and costs of the network lease in the future, but then it must also be important that we take measures that actually reduce costs. We then have to dry down requirements for efficiency improvement and ensure a more rational network structure in Norway. Then we can't reduce the incentives for this and reverse the developments we've seen in recent years. From 2011 to 2017, the number of distribution network companies in Norway decreased from 130 to 106. The effect of this has been performance improvements and lower network rental to the customer, and it is a reality I can confirm myself. Skånevik Ølen Kraftlag entered Haugaland Kraft from 1 September 2017. In my case, it has meant a new logo on the invoice and almost NOK 4000 in annual savings. Even more important has been the case for local enterprises, where changes have made a significant impact on the bottom line. I can name companies like Westcon and Fatland, both of which have saved about 1.5 million. kr. This shows that a more efficient structure of network companies makes a difference. It brings great benefits to the consumer, but also makes a crucial difference for business. It ensures jobs and contributes to increased value creation, while contributing to greater security of supply — and without public collection of the same money in increased taxes. However, there are several measures that can be taken to ensure similar network rentals in Norway, and there are also some fundamental concerns that should be considered in the investigation work. An example of this is the financing of renewable wind energy deployment. As the system is today, we are charging people in District Norway with increased network leases to link wind power projects to the local network, projects that people in Ring 3 have adopted and that the local network company has never asked for. It is a concern that small communities will pay for projects adopted by the large community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e224	There are great variations in the network rental in this country. Many have felt unfairly that network rentals are significantly higher where the power is produced than far away. That's why it's good that there's a total mass asking today for an investigation into how we can get a similar web rental in this country. The system of balancing transmission tariffs has been reduced in recent years and in the state budget for 2018 it is gone. The large differences in network rental in different parts of the country are problematic and affect the inhabitants of the power stations and districts unnecessarily hard. Network services are natural monopolies where customers cannot choose another supplier, and then it becomes a public task to ensure equal or equal network rental across the country. Therefore, we are pleased that there is now an agreement to ask the government to come to Stortingen with an investigation of different models. SV is not going to commit to a model today, but look at the investigation when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e231	This is a discussion that has been going on for a long time, that we have different prices for network rental in the country. I want to put a slightly wider perspective in this debate, because we are going to have a debate later today, and we are also going to have a debate next week on Norway's link to the EU energy market package. If we go back a few decades, Norway, together with the other Nordic countries, has done an enormously good job of creating an infrastructure to distribute resources that the community needs. We may be 20-25 years ahead of any other region in Europe and in the world, for that matter. We are now facing challenges related to future energy solutions. One is that we're going to achieve the goals that we're committed to in the Paris Agreement. The second is that technology is raging in the future, so that we have the opportunity to use other types of energy sources that have been less developed – solar and wind, among others. This means that we should continue the good cooperation we have had with the Nordic countries to develop infrastructure, create smart power grids, contribute to the green economy, but also make sure to research more, so that we can keep that leadership trough. Renewable energy sources have a greater role – not so much bigger in Norway, because we already have such a large share of renewable energy – but it's going to crash into us, to a large extent solar power. Other countries and other economies are going to spend a lot of money in the next decades developing solar and wind power. India is an example of a country that places massive emphasis on renewable energy, among other things. solar power. The question we have to ask ourselves in the Nordic region is: can we afford not to continue our cooperation, and how else are we going to go along with that development? It is important to take on board that we have developed a good cooperation. There is also a reason why we have a relatively low cost level in Norway when it comes to distributing electricity through the network, and that we also have a low power price. So we shouldn't be resting on the laurels, and this is where the structural debate comes in, because we have to keep going. How do we interrupt the network companies in Norway? We have four price ranges in Norway, but we still have over 100 online companies. And it's an important debate on how many we're going to allocate costs to. We see from the NVE's reviews that there is a clear correlation between the size and the cost. I also believe that consumers are concerned that we should not use too many policy instruments to subsidise those who will hold small network companies. They have to be able to do that for all of them, but that means that it has a cost. We can't use too many subsidies to compensate for that. But in a country like Norway, there are geographical inequalities that we also need to consider. It is important that we use the community's money effectively, that we are involved in developing the green transition, and also the green economy. After all, consumers are there – we are going around with smartphones and apps every day, we are going to charge cars and other electric dolls in everyday life. If we're going to be completely electric in the future, we're totally dependent on that economy as well. And Norway has a great opportunity here. We've been dealing with 'energy only', that is, the market is an important player. We're going to exploit all of the energy sources. There have been many investigations by many governments over many years, without finding one leading model to even out tariffs. That is why we have taken the view that annual budget contributions are the best model. In many negotiations, the left has contributed to the annual smoothing of net tariffs. It's a model that we'll continue to prioritise.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e244	I thank and notice that there is a joint committee behind this proposal, which says that we want to look at the possibility of doing things better. In the debate, I hear the different basics, and I can share both of them: both those who say that there are some things we can't capture in the geographical differences that are around our country – that we are forced to see whether we can get a better system for it – and those who point out that national renewable energy development targets in some districts, because of the way we have set up the input tariff, have led to a more expensive local network lease without actually being one who has asked for it. I notice that this is a plurality, and I look forward to discussing a solution that should be both simple and prudent, secure socio-economic operations and, not least, ensure that there will also be a more equal price in our different districts. It is, as far as I know, a plurality of the parties in this room that are obliged to it by their party programmes. So I look forward to a good discussion about this, and I'm sure we can manage to find good and better solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e253	A stable energy supply is essential for our modern welfare society, and in Norway we have a long experience with market-based solutions and sensible regulation of power supplies. It has served us well. A generally accepted principle for network charging, in line with the 2016 Energy Communication and the 2012 Network Communication, is that tariffs should vary slightly and that tariffs provide location and price signals for efficient operation and network development. The differences in network tariffs are due to a number of factors, both geographical circumstances, differences in customer base and differences in efficiency between transmission system operators. Several different models for the harmonisation of tariffs have been investigated in the past, as also referred to in this debate. But they have all been rejected because they have weaknesses for various reasons. One of the reasons is that the connection between the network companies' own costs and network rental, i.e. the price paid by the customer for this monopoly service, disappears. This link has a certain self-regulatory effect, a mechanism in itself, by giving companies incentives at least not to overinvest, which could be at risk if the price can only be left to customers. It also has a self-regulatory effect by operating as efficiently as possible. In many ways, this serves as a self-regulatory effect between the network company locally and its customers in their area. Call it – if you want, President – some kind of gaping effect. The previous balancing mechanism that we have had, where a grant is made over the state budget to customers connected to network companies with particularly high network costs, is the only scheme that has been assessed to be reasonably accurate. But this system also has weaknesses, and one loses some of this gaping effect. The most effective approach to getting a similar network rental in the country is to look at measures that facilitate the efficient operation of the network companies and an efficient structure for the network companies. In practice, this means a slightly larger network company, which can distribute its network costs to several subscribers and thus bring the price down to the individual customer. In recent years, both the majority of the population, the government and the NVE have made changes in the regulation of the transmission system companies, which are intended to facilitate this, for example. corporate and functional separation requirements for all network companies from 2021, cf. next item on the agenda today. This has already resulted in a number of consolidations and aggregations of the smallest network carriers over the last few years. This has resulted — and we have been given some examples of it today in this debate — in lower rentals for subscribers linked to some of the smallest network companies. This over time will have a positive impact on electricity customers across the country, also pointed out by expert groups set up by the Ministry of Oil and Energy in 2014 for, among others. to look at the possibility of more harmonised tariffs in Norway. I take note that a joint committee now wants to have further explored models that can enable greater harmonisation of network tariffs in Norway. I take that work very seriously, and I aim to get back to Stortinget with a good case about this, even though we know – based on the experience that has been gained in recent years – that this is particularly demanding if you do not lose the incentives that should be in the market to reduce costs over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e268	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e284	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e293	The background to the case is well described in the opinion of the Committee. This case has been treated relatively recently. The background was an expert report, delivered in 2014. It was examined in 2015 and a decision was taken in 2016. When it comes up so soon afterwards, it is not uncommon either. The report took a number of things into consideration. Many of them have been included in energy legislation, but functional separation was controversial, there were different opinions at the time, as now. Former oil and energy minister Eivind Reiten led the Reiten Committee, which delivered the report A better organised power grid in 2014. In my opinion, the sample did a very thorough job. Most of the proposals made by the expert group were adopted in the new Energy Act in 2016. But, as I said, the Workers' Party, etc. I then believed, as now, that network companies with less than 30000 customers or subscribers should be exempted from the functional separation requirement. We see in this case that despite the fact that we have not had a hearing – we did not choose to have a hearing because it has been treated so recently – it has nevertheless been a great commitment. A lot of people have wanted to talk to us. There are a lot of people who have made written and oral recordings. We see that the KS has been very committed, and so have the EL and IT Association on behalf of many of the employees of these companies. We saw that there were no geographical distinctions whether you were in favour of or against, it was essentially about the size of the companies. The big people looked at this as an opportunity to get bigger. You thought you could get a lot of benefits out of it. Many of the small fears that they could not exist in the long term, that they lost their foundations. And we see today a trend from very many small companies to fewer and larger. I don't see anything wrong in that those who want to sell themselves down or out can do it, and those who want to buy themselves or buy companies fully, merge and cooperate in other ways, can do it. There are no obstacles. On the contrary, what I cannot see is why I did not carry out a slightly more thorough hearing when the matter was up the previous time. I wish you had, then we might not have had this discussion today. I also record that Reiten recently spoke out in an interview that functional separation is burdensome for the small companies. The working party does not want a functional separation for companies with less than 30000 customers, as we believe that this requirement may weaken preparedness. We believe that the requirement is unnecessarily expensive, we believe that the small companies will bear a significant conversion cost, and then annual additional costs that follow, among other things. the remuneration of management functions and the remuneration of several members of the board of directors. There are costs for large companies which, under European legislation, have already introduced a distinction. We believe that the claim intervenes in ownership. We see that a lot of these companies are publicly owned. They are owned by municipalities and county municipalities, so that local democracy works, and you are in close contact with your customers, who are the inhabitants. And we believe that the requirement inhibits development. The social accounts of the smaller power companies are sound. It's not like there's an extensive dividend party around the individual municipalities. On the contrary, we see that companies are contributing positive ring-effects in local communities, including: by acquiring local goods and services. If the electricity companies in the districts are purchased by urban units, larger sites, there is a lack of contact with commercial forces in the local environments. And, among others, The fiber expansion we've had, we wouldn't have seen if we had larger units, we mean. The setting has been set.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e314	As the case-speaker did well, put the Ministry of Oil and Energy down in time an expert group to advise Stortinget on how we could get a better network organisation. The report A better organised power network was handed over to the OED, and one of the recommendations was to establish a corporate and functional separation. The majority made its decision based on advice given in spring 2016. Today, we are debating the reversal of this decision. It is claimed that in this matter the Christian People's Party and the opposition party take their part. Right we feel uncertain about it – let me correct – we feel sure that that is not the case. If a good rural policy is to be pursued, it is about looking at health and not sub-optimalising the monopoly of the small network companies. If a good rural policy is to be pursued, the whole of the economy of the region needs to have its costs optimised. It is worth noting that the annual report from the NVE on the development of key figures for the network operators over a period of 10 years shows that the network operators alone have lower network costs, lower interruptibility costs, higher average returns and lower operating and maintenance costs per subscription. In addition, self-employed contractors in the districts report that they favour the direct award of contracts for their own business in the network company. The last time in the last issue of Energy Technology, we can read that freelance contractors experience network companies offering their overcapacity on assembly services in the competitive market, and companies awarding large volumes directly to newly established contractors from the same group without competition. It does not provide a cost-optimal network for consumers, it weakens local business, and it does not build trust in those who are set to manage a monopoly. It's bad district policy. And don't think if there's a merger, local jobs will be gone. The network shall be operated as before, and local knowledge at least as valuable as it was when the network was operated by small companies. Thus, in many mergers, we see that the supervision and continuation of local jobs in a larger and merged company is precisely the responsibility of all parties. This also applies to alerts, which prove to be strengthened, as well as to network customers’ costs go down. That's good district policy. What is perhaps the most demanding is the ping-pong policy that the Storting is currently pursuing. In the spring of 2016, Stortinget adopted a functional separation for all the network companies, just enough with a marginal multiple, but still agreed. The introduction was said to be due from 2021 in order to have a good time for the conversion. Most people have seen processes running to achieve this goal. Today, two years after – before one has learned how this works – the Storting is ready to reverse the decision. If you ask a business what's important, there are three words that go back. It's persuasive, persuasive, persuasive. From my own region, I feel that this is considered very demanding. A question has been asked whether or not a decision can be relied on, and whether it is a point to comply with, a decision that has been taken. I agree that if experience shows that a wrong decision has been taken, then they can be reversed. Now we are in the middle of a process, no experience is missed, and the user aspect is not included. I must say that I am genuinely sorry on behalf of the districts today if the decision remains as the committee has set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e327	When we now deal with Document 8:87 S for 2017-2018 and Innst. 180 S for 2017-2018 here today, the Storting will adopt higher net tariffs for its business and consumers. The majority in this room is of the opinion that the future is best met by going backwards into it and that yesterday's problems will continue in the hope that tomorrow's solution will come. I'm not going to say here today that I'm psychic, but one really doesn't need gifts from above to realize that what the majority is doing today won't be the solution to tomorrow's challenges. It's a shame that the majority wants to reverse a decision to the detriment of the country's businesses, consumers and people most. To whom is this decision subject? Yes, quite ordinary people. It is not a social profile to ensure that the electricity bill of a single mother is kept as high as possible, because it is actually she who will notice the consequences of this decision. It's not that this decision will have any impact on people with million income, villa on Oslo west and split new Tesla, it's too common people this makes a difference. It's actually a mystery to me that these are the so-called social-democratic parties, with a king's idea of redistributing more to ordinary people, who now in many ways are doing the whole opposite. And let me also admit that the riddle doesn't get any easier to understand when it's the so-called district party, the Center Party, which is at the forefront of a policy that sends the bill to ordinary people and businesses in District Norway. This isn't just a question of who it hits, it's also a question of where it hits. Today, as the corporate and network structures are organised, the biggest benefit for consumers and businesses would be just in the districts. At the majority's request, we are now left with one general rule and that nearly 90 pst. are subject to the exemption. That means that essentially it's the districts that are going to be hanging after. It's not often I tend to quote the conservative principle, but today I'm going to make an exception, because sometimes we actually have to change to preserve. If we see the benefits of introducing a corporate and functional distinction, these are pretty clear. It provides lower network costs, it provides lower operating and maintenance costs, and it has a higher average return. In addition, we put down some key pillars on what is monopoly activity and what is exposed to competition, and avoid mixing it to the detriment of consumers. It is in many ways sad that the majority decides here today to ensure the highest possible cost for business and ordinary people in the districts. Network operation is a monopoly activity protected from competition. Price regulation shall ensure that customers are only charged for real costs, but nevertheless network rentals are perceived as high. It's the highest in the districts, and it's going to be higher. Significant investments will be made in the years to come and the bill will be sent to customers. It is up to us politicians and decision-makers to assume responsibility for the fact that that bill does not exceed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e342	In 2016, it was decided that all power companies must introduce a corporate and functional separation, a legislative amendment that will enter into force in 2021. This requirement implies that the network must be separated into a separate company. The NVE and the Ministry of Oil and Energy claim that the amendment of the law will ensure that the network is neutral and that the customer will not pay for other activities in the power company through the tariff. The centre party believes that this requirement weakens preparedness. Norwegian local power companies know their local areas well and are fast on the plate in case of power failure, for example. If companies in the districts are bought up by major urban companies, the response time will be much longer. There are many examples of large companies depriving customers in the districts and concentrating first on getting the help they need from cities, as the cost of interruptions in the districts is low. This is negative for the inhabitants and for the business community in the districts. This requirement is also unnecessarily expensive. Unlike the picture that the NVE, the Department and major companies like to present, there are examples of very many highly efficient, smaller companies here to land. These companies will be subject to this requirement to a significant conversion cost and subsequently to annual additional costs, as a result of the need to pay more management functions and the need to reward more board members. These are the costs incurred by the large companies – which have already been introduced under legislation – to avoid. As a result, the effective small costs shifted to customers in the form of increased network rentals are incurred. The requirement inhibits development. The company accounts of the smaller power companies are sound. The companies contribute to positive ring-effects in local communities, including: by acquiring local goods and services. If the electricity companies in the districts are purchased by urban units, there is a lack of contact with commercial forces in the local environment. I'm surprised to hear the representative of Halleland here today, because I've been traveling in Troms for the last week, where the Progress Party is very concerned about this matter and supports the Center Party. It seems today that the proposal of the Central Party will have a majority. We are very pleased about that, because this is a voice for small companies to move on, without unnecessary red tape and expense. At the same time, this will be a vote for maintaining skills jobs in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e357	The functional separation system, adopted during the previous ageing period, is a bureaucratic, inappropriate and cost-effective organisation of energy activities. At the time of the adoption of the distinction, there were no economic or social investigations as the basis for the amendment of the law. We pointed out that was a weakness in the bill, and that's why we went towards the creation of the functional division. Today, we have the opportunity to cancel this for companies with fewer than 30,000 customers. That's good. We will be able to stop a greater centralisation of the power sector than that imposed on us by the EU, and more red tape than that imposed on us by the EU. Power companies with fewer than 30000 customers are now given the opportunity to release the functional separation requirement. What we're doing now is finding practical solutions that work and that contribute to local ownership of infrastructure, rather than driving principles. There is no obvious reason why Norwegian legislation should be stricter than the European one, which requires only a distinction for companies with more than 100000 customers. The EU itself has assessed that Norway’s requirement was unnecessarily bureaucratic and expensive. The fact that the so-called anti-bureaucratic party does not see this is a mystery to me. In addition, customers are charged the increased costs of this bureaucracy. It is not particularly consumer friendly, but once again something the Progress Party supports. A broad alliance has asked us to remove the functional distinction for companies with fewer than 30,000 customers; KS Company, District Energy, EL and IT, NITO, Tekna and Landssaman conclusion of Vasskraftkommunar represents a wide range of interests in the power industry and is therefore pleased that today we are getting a majority to cancel the division for companies with fewer than 30,000 customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e368	In my previous post, I was particularly involved in Norwegian and Nordic cooperation. We've been working very well for 25 years and have the world's best-developed electricity infrastructure. But it's important to ask ourselves the question, where will we be in 25 years? Of course, we have to use the story to learn from, but we also have to look forward: where are we going? Once again, that debate is part of the discussion – on efficiency, cost-effectiveness, how we can best use the common economy in this infrastructure to benefit everyone from the opportunities of the future. The left was involved in introducing the division we're going to reverse today. We stand by what we meant in 2015 and 2016, and want us to have a functional distinction – not so much for the sake of bureaucracy and the economy as we've been about, to distribute the competence I'm going to come back a little bit, but most of all because the number of stakeholders in the future power grid is going to be greater than it has been. For the past decades, we have had local power producers, local energy companies, who have given us the power. Quite a number of farmers have started putting solar cells on the roof. We have small and large wind farms. We get other solutions. This will be added to the network. We get plus houses, and we get other actors. We get a car park to be charged anywhere, depending on where we are. There is a lot of infrastructure to be built in the future, and we need to equip ourselves to have the opportunity to invest as much as possible. This also requires that those who sit and take the decisions do not have too many interests to deal with in one dwelling. It is also a democratic debate: who is it that should sit on those decisions, and what interests is it that determines locally? If it's the new cabin areas that have the most priority – all right, but then maybe people don't get the services they want most. There are some of the debates that are going to go out there and that will be important in the next few years for how to organise the future. Then we come back to thinking more regionally in Norway and the Nordic countries to meet future challenges. We need bigger and more robust environments of competence to absorb the developments that are taking place. It's a cross-section of thought when Statnet says that when they build the transmission system, they use a lot of foreign labour, and very few of them speak English. It also says something about the challenges we face in the next decades of recruiting small companies in the districts, where demography is also slightly against us. It's a fuss, it's fewer kids to take off. We should also bear that in mind when we are going to invest, because we are going to recruit skills to care for this important infrastructure in the future. It is also part of the preparedness debate that is part of the debate here. As far as geographical structuring is concerned, we can of course claim that many small companies are good, but in the future, it is not certain that this argument applies to such a large extent if we do not manage to recruit skills and do not manage to raise investments and have the means to carry out all the important maintenance in the large infrastructure that we have built and that we will manage in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e381	The requirement for a functional separation is mandatory for some of the smallest companies. The Christian People's Party wants tidy relationships, but not solutions that make it impossible for them to survive. Many of the smaller companies have important local knowledge and skills that it is important to take care of. Some say that in our approach to the EU directive, we become more Catholic than the pope. In the EU, an exception has been made to the functional separation requirement for companies with less than 100000 customers. I think it might make sense to put a space under it. I don't have anything against functions, but I think they have to rely on good, business solutions, and not on unnecessary bureaucracy. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e390	The purpose of corporate and functional separation is to safeguard the interests of the electricity customer and to facilitate an efficient power system. The aim is to promote effective competition in competitive activities, to strengthen the neutrality of network activities and to ensure that network operators operate as efficiently as possible, so that consumers, industry and other businesses do not have to pay more in network rental than is necessary. Having a clear distinction as far as possible between companies engaged in competitive activities, i.e. the purchase and sale of electricity, and companies engaged in monopoly activities, in this case the network, is favourable to the consumer. Changes in laws adopted at Stortinget in 2016, regarding corporate and functional separation, contribute to all network companies having to deal with this, and that we take care of the interests of all electricity customers, regardless of whether they are connected to a large or a small network company. The distinction between competitive activities and monopoly activities is important, but it alone does not contribute to achieving the desired effects. Therefore, a functional distinction is also important, and there are requirements for individual management structures, different between the monopoly and the competitive part. The power industry is facing major changes. The solutions that have worked well up to now are not necessarily the best solutions to meet the requirements of the future power market. We get an increase in complexity, something like this. The representative, Mr Ketil Kjenseth, left, made a good presentation in an earlier article. The challenges should then be addressed with the lowest possible cost and the highest possible security of supply and a guarantee that the electricity customer ultimately pays as little as possible for electricity and network rental. It is therefore important that the management of the network companies focuses on the network activities and on compliance with the neutrality obligations towards the different customers to which they relate. This is particularly important to ensure that the roles of an integrated energy company are not confused, whether consciously or unconsciously. This could be done, for example, by: constitute a risk that production in its own group is given priority by links or is favoured in the calculation of plant contributions. I'm a little surprised at the majority's limited interest in taking the power customer's part in this, but apparently it seems to listen more to the smaller network companies and their interests. A size limit for functional separation could give rise to distortions of competition between companies and motives for strategic adaptations. There are only 15 out of 123 network companies that have more than 30,000 online customers in Norway per day. For the government it has been important that all online customers should have the right to a neutral network company, regardless of how many customers exactly their network company has. Finally, I will be allowed to comment on two issues that have been raised here. Costs and bureaucracy are one thing. It is not that there will be very high costs or a lot of bureaucracy in maintaining the functional distinction also for smaller companies. It's up to the companies to organize themselves. Let me do one example. Under the Share Act, a company with less than 30 employees may have a minimum board of directors with one member of the board. It thus does not contribute to increased bureaucracy and particularly increased costs. When it comes to preparedness, it is that the preparedness requirements are set out in the Emergency Response Regulation and will be fully applicable in the future, regardless of the organisation of the network companies. And if you want, different online companies can cooperate on preparedness to ensure the best possible preparedness. An example of this is the cooperation we have today between Nettallian and Validator.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e407	No one has asked for the word in reply. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e415	As I said before, I think the Reiten committee did a good and thorough job. They pointed to many good points in the report ‘A better organised electricity network’. Much of that is included in the Energy Act. At the same time, functional separation was controversial, and we've had a discussion. You don't go back on all the decisions you made, but there's one decision you've been dissatisfied with. I then react to the use of the words of the representative, Eskeland, when she describes the policy of the majority as a ‘pingpong policy’. I respect the fact that there is a political disagreement, but I find it disrespectful because if you disagree, say that the majority is engaged in ping-pong politics. I do not agree with that. So the same representative called for predictability. Yes, a deadline was set for 1 January 2021 to implement functional separation. That doesn't mean that everyone has done the job, and that it's being reversed now. As far as I know, there are the few that have started, and those who have started might have done so anyway. So the majority does not pursue pingpong policy – on the contrary, we are very predictable. We mean the exact same thing now that we did when it was treated in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e422	I will support the previous speakers. It is not the Stortinge that operates pingpong policy, but the voters that have given a new majority in the Stortinge. We have a government that is constantly talking about simplification and less bureaucracy, but with the requirement of functional separation, development went wrong. The functional separation requirement leads to a pointless bureaucracy in the smaller network companies and also has a cost side. The argument that we need a distinction to ensure that the transmission system companies cannot use or exploit their monopoly situation as a competitive advantage falls on their own unfairness. The network activity is subject to a strictly regulated regime in accordance with: the control regulation and is subject to strict revision in order to ensure that cross-subsidies are not carried out. On the other hand, the requirement for a functional distinction would weaken community development. It will also weaken local ownership and locality. Many smaller network companies and energy companies are among the major support players in their communities. It's said here that this is going with your back into tomorrow. On the contrary, I know of very many small and small energy companies that are very forward-looking, that provide for broadband development, that provide secure infrastructure, and that provide a secure network and have a high level of preparedness in areas with challenging climate and topography. It is an example of socially beneficial value creation that the smaller energy plants stand by alone. I dare say that without the local energy companies Norway would actually look quite different. I myself have been close to a local network company such as the general meeting of the company, and I feel that most local energy plants are forward-looking, change-oriented and well-intentioned into the digital age. I see no correlation between the societal changes described and the need for a functional distinction. That is why I am pleased that the Stortinge today makes a forward-looking decision and allows us to continue to maintain small, local network companies that can be drivers in their community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e437	It is shown that there are many details involved. But none of those calling for reversal represent the network companies. None of them represent the customers, the consumers. They won't listen. I'm amazed by SV, which is usually on the consumer's side. They have now chosen to change the focus. In the first row, the right-hand side of the page is occupied with the right-hand side of the page. It is clearly entirely subordinate to those who will now reverse the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e444	It has been said that functional separation is bureaucratic. To that I would say, the answer to that is no. Demonopolising tends to have an effect of red tape. Empiri can be nice to deal with – you can learn something from it, you can see what monopolising has led to elsewhere. It doesn't want the majority to deal with. That doesn't mean it won't be a conversion process and a conversion cost. It is always, even when you change to something better. It has been said that this is priceless for the customers. But it was one of the problems with cross-subsidies – that could be price-earning for the customers. That risk is not of interest to the majority. I record that the Workers' Party and the Senter Party do not like the criticism that has come, among other things. by the representative of Eskeland in her fine speech, that these parties are engaged in the policy of ping pongs. But what are they doing if it's not a pingpong policy? Seestad says they stand for what they've always done. Myhrvold says that the Storting has got a different majority, and that you have to deal with it. Well, the Workers' Party has not driven anything other than winging the last two and a half – perhaps even three – years on case by case. In this way, it may be admirable that this political bankruptcy settlement is able to hold one position. I'll tell you what's meant by ping-pong policy. With ping ping-pong policy, we mean not only what one party is capable of over a longer period of time, but also the unforeseeableness to which the actors in this industry are now exposed. For the conversion process is already in progress and it is now to be suddenly reversed. Then I want to draw a parallel to how responsible parties think, in this case the government parties. Since 2013, there were some changes that had been made in the field of working life that our parties had voted against in the previous ageing period. But when we saw that there were changes that had taken place in the workplace, we chose to keep them anyway, precisely because of predictability. And that's where the irresponsibleness of the Workers' Party comes in again; you can't deal with changes that have taken place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e455	The representative Heggelund is talking about monopolising, but that's not what we're talking about today. We're talking about the functional division. The network will continue to be a monopoly. The issue is whether we should still be able to allow small, locally owned network companies in the future, or whether there must be a large network company like Hafslund. For the Central Party, it is important that the community also participates in shaping this. Local municipalities often own the small energy companies. They have often made strategic choices for the sake of their citizens. I believe that there should be room for that in the future too. Neither Heggelund nor I have probably more than one cable into the wall, so monopoly will be here anyway. That's not what this case is about. It's about whether we're going to be able to have variation in the number of companies and in the corporate structure of our country. I think it should be room for both Hafslund and Rakkestad Energia. There shall be room for both BKK and Fitjar Power Teams.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e464	Everyone agrees that a corporate distinction between competitive activities and monopoly activities is appropriate. The question in this case is whether to ensure, in addition, that there is a real distinction, where there is a different management structure in the two companies, ensuring that the interests of the electricity customer are effectively taken into account, and removing the possibility of getting some kind of cross-subsidisation or unfortunate strategic decisions that make it impossible to achieve what you really want – namely to distinguish competitive activities and monopolies. In order to do this in a simple way, it is really a matter of customers having confidence that, when it is a corporate distinction, with those who sell electricity in the competitive market, and a network company operating as a monopoly, they are actually separate and that it is not the same board of directors or the same management of both companies, which would help to create uncertainty as to whether we have a real distinction between competitive activities and monopoly activities. For the power customer out there, it is important to be able to be sure that the distinction is actually there – not just on paper through different AS organisation, but on a daily basis, where companies have to take their customers into account and deliver the best possible product. And to the representative Myhrvold: Yes, we want both big and small companies, but we want them to operate within the same regulatory framework, where they have to deal with a clear and clear distinction between corporate and real, both through the functional distinction with different management structures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e475	To the representative Ole André Myhrvold in the Central Party: What we are discussing today is whether we should have different rules for small and large, not whether you can be small or big, or whether you should be in the districts or around the big cities. The question is how we distribute democracy, inter alia: I have been on the owner’s side, among others. as elected members of this system, but I have also been on the other side and tried to make municipal activities more energy efficient. Then I realized that some municipalities had old power contracts that meant that they had a lower price. It's not necessarily like this anymore, but it would have been a culture that energy has no price, and so you haven't had to energy savings. It is not in the interests of the environment, nor of the inhabitants, that the municipality does not provide the best possible service, nor that the municipality actually spends money on its own activities that could have been used for other purposes in the municipality – without it being within a democracy and being adopted. Questions can also be asked whether not to release to other power suppliers is appropriate or a type of cross-subsidy. There have been fights up and down when new players producing power are not getting on the web. Now it's on its way out, fortunately. The network providers have become more offensive. The fact that there have been opportunities to discriminate is about the distinction we are talking about today. The same debate can be linked to technology. Keeping technology away or not using it can be a form of cross-subsidisation or discrimination. It's important to separate that, and that's what we're discussing: whether you're small or big, you should keep these interests separate, especially now, when we get a lot of other considerations to take forward. With new power producers and new technologies, interest is increasing, and we should be tidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e486	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e498	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e538	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-16.ana.ud514e575	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
