ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e92	Honourable co-representatives! Former Depositary Representative Ingrid Isaacsen Willoch died on 23 November, 74 years old. In his memoirs, Fredrikstad’s rapporteur wrote: ‘We remember her as a caring and caring person for others and as a strong debater who has shown a great social commitment through his extensive political activity.’ It's not hard to join this. Ingrid Willoch represented Westfold on the Stortinget for three periods, from 1981 to 1993. She was first a member of the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee, then the Church and Education Committee, before chairing the Consumer and Administrative Committee in 1989-1990. She was also the first two periods Secretary of State of Odelstinget and concluded her big business in the Financial Committee. She had a number of central offices in High Schools, among others. as the head of Westfold and as a member of the Labour Commission of the Landsförbund of Höjrekvinner. Later, she was active in the Senior Right. Ingrid Willoch began as many other people elected his political career in local politics. She was a member of the Horten City Council and Vestfold County Council. And she re-engaged in local politics when she stepped out of the Storting, this time as city government representative in Fredrikstad, where she later sat as a elected member for 20 years. From 2007 to 2011, she was also the municipality's interim rapporteur. At the same time, she was a county representative and a member of the district committee in Eastfold from 1995 to 2007. After the last municipal elections, Ingrid Willoch was elected as head of the control committee in Fredrikstad, which she also chaired in the period 2003–2007. It was a duty she had very good prerequisites for. She was never afraid to say clearly from on behalf of the control committee when she thought there was a need for it. Ingrid Willoch took care of health in the last few years, but the political commitment was just as strong. And she glowed at culture, especially literature, but also cinema and theater, which she liked to visit with good friends. After a year and a half ago, she lost her spouse, formerly abductor Georg Apenes, she chose to move from Fredrikstad to Oslo to get closer to her children. But she didn't say goodbye to politics. After resigning from her local political position in Fredrikstad in the spring of 2017, she quickly joined again for service, this time for Oslo Right, a social enthusiast for the last. We bring peace to Ingrid Willoch's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e125	From the Socialist Left Group, there is a notice of the withdrawal of the licence granted to the representative Petter Eide from 9 April to 12 April. – This message is taken into account. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the Province of Buskerud: Anne Helene Sandum For Finnmark County: Ragnhild Helene Kaski For Hedmark County: Tone Merete Sønderud For the province of Hordaland: Leif Audun Sande For Oslo: Hans Kristian Voldstad For Rogaland County: Eirik Faret Sakariassen For Telemark County: Olav Urbø For South-Trundellag County: Geir Arild Espnes and Kristian Torve For Eastfold County: Arve Sigmundstad Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Hege Haukeland Liadal from 10 April until further notice from the Workers' Group on the leave of the representative Øystein Langholm Hansen on 10 and 11 April to attend meetings of the Nordic Council of Iceland On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Rogaland County: Julia Wong and Tom Kalsås
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e217	Julia Wong and Tom Kalsås are present and will take the seat. There are many proposals to be submitted, and many proposals for representatives to be tabled today, and the President will ask the representatives to sit until we begin on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e230	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e235	On behalf of Mona Fagerås, Lars Haltbrecken, Arne Nävra and myself, I would like to make two proposals. The one thing is about changing reindeer management laws § 60. The second is the introduction of a production allowance for salmon, aure and rainbow trout farming within the territorial line.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e241	The representative of Mona Fagerås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e246	I am delighted to present a proposal by the representatives of the big business Martin Henriksen, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Mani Hussaini, Hadia Tajik, Marit Arnstad, Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Audun Lysbakken and myself for a reform of trust in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e251	The representative of Espen Barth Eide will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e256	On behalf of Marit Arnstad and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to postpone the issue of the exchange of names for Statoil, so that the matter can be discussed in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e261	The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e266	On behalf of Olaug V. Bollestad, Knut Arild Hareide, Steinar Reiten and myself, I propose to give Bible students two additional points.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e271	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e276	On behalf of Mona Fagerås, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Nicholas Wilkinson, Per Olaf Lundtigen, Emilie Enger Mehl and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ask the government to define the basic ICT infrastructure of healthcare professionals under security law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e281	The representative of Arild Grande will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e286	On behalf of the major representatives of Hadia Tajik, Lise Christoffersen, Eigil Knutsen, Arve Sigmundstad, Svein Roald Hansen, Siv Henriette Jacobsen and myself, I am delighted to propose to improve the generalisation system and on behalf of the depositors Hadia Tajik, Lise Christoffersen, Eigil Knutsen and myself a proposal to strengthen the clean-up approval system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e291	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present five proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e297	On behalf of the Red Group, I would like to make a proposal to ensure the right of appeal for veterans in compensation cases for personal injury, a proposal for state ownership, a proposal to repeal the codecision regulation to ensure better working conditions in child protection and other care services, a proposal for franchise to ensure safer working conditions for franchisees and workers in franchisees and a proposal to stop the export of Norwegian defence equipment to Turkey, call on the Government of Turkey to withdraw its military forces from Syria and increase humanitarian aid to refugees from the Afrin area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e302	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e307	I will, on behalf of the representatives of the big business Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Geir Pollestad, Liv Signe Navarsete, Ole André Myhrvold and myself present a proposal for a representative on the conversion of taxes to the field of nutrition and public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e312	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will put forward three representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e317	On behalf of Geir Pollestad, Willfred Nordlund, Nils T. Bjørke, Ivar Odnes and myself, I would like to make a proposal to amend the Working Environment Act § 1-7 [[1]] In addition, I would like to make a proposal by Mr. Siv Mossleth, Mr. Liv Signe Navarsete, Mr. Ole André Myhrvold, Mr. Sandra Borch, Mr. Sigbjørn Gülsvik and myself to guarantee the right of priority for the port workers. Finally, I would like to make a proposal by the British representatives Siv Mossleth, Kjersti Toppe, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Sigbjørn Gælsvik and myself that Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and Norwegian labour law be given precedence over the EU labour market agency ELA, the European Labour Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e326	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e331	On behalf of the big business representatives, Mr. Ingvild Kjerkol, Mr. Tore Hagebakken, Mr. Tuva Moflag, Mr. Siv Henriette Jacobsen and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to strengthen Norwegian dental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e336	The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e341	I will, on behalf of Hans Fredrik Groevan, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, and myself, promote a proposal to ensure the quality of specialist training for doctors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e346	The representative Per Espen Stoknes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e351	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of myself on natural renewal, richer ecosystems and greater experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e357	The representative, Mr Liv Signe Navarsete, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e362	On behalf of the big-time representatives Trygve Slagsvold Vedum, Sandra Borch, Willfred Nordlund and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a rapprochement plan for the defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e367	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e372	On behalf of Knut Arild Hareide, Olaug V. Bollestad, Hans Fredrik Gruvan and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to investigate the removal of the 350-kroner limit for consignments of goods from abroad. On behalf of the big business representatives, Tore Storehaug, Olaug V. Bollestad and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a job tax deduction for the disabled. On behalf of the big business representatives Steinar Reiten, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to establish an ethics council for the State pension fund Norway, following a model from the State pension fund abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e381	Thank you – and with that, the representative proposal 215 has been handed over to Stortinget. The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e402	There are enormous differences within the different states. In Finnmark we have at least three regions, East Finland, internal Finnland and West Finland. What I wish we could manage to create within the state is cohesion. Then aggregation is not the right medicine. The largest city in Finnmark is Alta, with approx. 20,000 inhabitants. In Tromsø is the largest city, with about 75 000 inhabitants. A common area of work will not be possible; we should also gather Finnmark with a better flight offer. How does the Council of State feel that it will be better for us in Finnmark if we join forces? I'll take up some moments that speak for the opposite. The closeness of the county to the administration of the county gives greater professional impact than a fragmentation. This will apply to both Troms and Finnmark. The vulnerability of Finnmark to the transfer of fishing rights out of the county will be further enhanced. Transfers of such rights, allowances, from Finnmark to Troms and Nordland are already a growing problem. Without a political body in Finnmark, in fact also against the interests of Troms, it will be much more difficult to assert the interests of the Finnish fishing community. The distance factor will make democratic processes more difficult. For political parties it will be more problematic to build on local knowledge and make it relevant when the distance becomes so large. In addition, politicians need to learn to deal with both Vadsø and the State, for example. in matters of reindeer management, and to Tromsø in matters of higher education, political participation is far more demanding. There will be a clearer trend towards the formation of elites in policy. The distance to the level playing field, the population, will increase, which may undermine the long-term emergence and legitimacy of the region. Russia’s regional competence is highly developed in Finnmark, probably as a result of the geographic location of Finnmark, bordering on Murmansk. Daily life and the formation of opinion in Finnmark, especially in eastern Finland, are marked by proximity to Russia in a totally different way than, for example, by: in South Troms. Finnmark is already Norway’s largest country to the extent. It is very difficult to keep a spatial overview and to maintain such knowledge. These are marine areas of vital importance for Norwegian fishing and rural areas of vital importance for the further development of Sami food routes and traditions. Also, Troms is a large group of people, and a merger will not strengthen the ability to keep a professionally based overview. Nationally elected bodies in Finnmark do not wish to merge, neither municipalities nor county municipalities have supported the proposal for a merger – despite considerable pressure from the state, neighbouring talks and a wide-ranging discussion. Admitting a population and its representatives' position in a democracy on a matter that does not concern vital national interests is, in our view, very unfortunate and does not invite meaningful future political participation. The Storting constituency of Finnmark will be maintained until further notice, which means that Finnmark’s population can still articulate its interests, but then as a completely informal Finnmarks bench, while the same population is denied access to articulate their regional interests through a popular process. Politically, Finnmark's voters will not be able to know whether there are representatives from their party who have the chance to sit in a new complex formation, either through guarantees in nomination processes or in cumulations/deletements. It's not that in Finnmark there's some negative development, and we don't need the neighbor's help to work. Population developments in the county have been consistently positive since 2009. This is due to positive developments in fisheries and farming and partly in tourism. The way Finnmark County is organized, with Vadsø as the political and administrative capital, has created a geographical balance in the county. From being a political centre of Norway’s largest state, Vadsø and East Finland will be reduced in importance, which is likely to have negative impacts on transport. FeFo is the result of the joint committee's attitude and a long and painful political process in Finnmark. Now we are in the first phase of managing land and water in Finnmark, and it would be bad if this construction lost its legitimacy and its content. The majority of the majority, Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party, rejected the decision to merge Troms and Finnmark on 7 December 2017. Finnmark became his own principal – Vardøhus län – in 1576 and county – Vardøhus county – in 1660. Finnmark County got its name in 1919. It was read out instead of the interpellation text, so I skip that now, but I can mention that traveling from Hasvik to the Churches is an entire process, which some should try. On 14 May, a referendum will be held in Finnmark on whether or not Finnmark will join Troms. I met the Council of State earlier this winter, in the Question Time, and then I asked if the Council of State understood the background of the enormous commitment to the functions and the uprising that is in Finnmark. The council did not answer my question – despite being reminded of it by the representative Marit Arnstad just after. I'm new at Stortinget, and to me it's an honor to represent Finnmark at Stortinget. Erik Bye said it so fine – that politicians must learn that they are not our masters, but our servants, they are the servants of the people. We live in Norway, we have to listen to people – and we must not do so that we lose credibility. As it is in Finnmark now, there is already a great distance from power, and people feel discouraged against those who decide. This is reinforced by this merger decision. There are large distances in Finnmark, there are no trams or trains every 7 minutes. When the government started this project, it was to create a common housing and work region. Does the Council of State really think that someone who lives in Karasjok will work in Tromsø? Will the Council of State ignore the popular uprising that is going on against the coercion of Finnmark and Troms? Finally, will the Council of State follow the advice of Erik Bye and listen to the people? And: Will the Council of State follow the will of the people and take seriously the outcome of the referendum in Finnmark on 14 May?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e442	I am well aware of the resistance in Finnmark against the merger of the municipalities of Troms and Finnmark. In December 2016, the majority of Finnmark county councils decided that Finnmark county councils should remain as their own county council. It was also well known to Stortinget when they adopted the merger on 8 June 2017. After the roll-out in 2017, the new big business was re-examined. In addition to decisions in the West-Finland Regional Council and East-Finland Regional Councils against the merger, the proposal of the representatives of the Landers of Runar Seistad and Ingarill Olsen on the abolition of the merger of Troms and Finnmark is also referred to. In the hearing on the proposals for representatives, representatives from Finnmark were present to inform about their opposition. Nevertheless, Stortinget voted against the proposal for a representative to reverse the merger decision. The reason is that the majority of population wants larger and stronger municipalities. With the new county structure, we provide for increased capacity and competence in county municipalities. This strengthens the ability of county councils to carry out current tasks in a good way and to undertake new tasks. The regional reform provides a higher minimum size for county municipalities. Today, nine counties have fewer than 200,000 inhabitants. After 2020, no county municipality will have less than 200000 inhabitants. The smallest population population, Finnmark, will increase from 76 000 to 240 000 from 2020 by becoming part of the new state of Troms and Finnmark. The Norwegian system is such that all municipalities and county councils have the same tasks, and then the smallest county council adds the list for which tasks the county municipalities can have. Larger counties are therefore necessary in order to be able to decentralise further power from the state level. Conversely, any reversal of the merger of Troms and Finnmark would reduce the possibilities for new tasks to county municipalities. The question of Finnmark as its own county municipality therefore concerns more than the inhabitants of Finnmark. I have fundamental faith in decentralizing power and moving tasks closer to the inhabitants. The transfer of additional tasks to the county councils will give citizens greater influence over how the tasks are done. Several tasks at this popular level will both increase the legitimacy of county municipalities and make it more meaningful to be state policies. In the context of the regional reform, the Stortinget has already joined in the transfer of some tasks to the county municipalities. The size has taken a decision on requests for further tasks, which we are now following up on. An expert committee has also assessed new tasks for county municipalities and made an ambitious proposal. The expert committee report is now being consulted, and the government will come back with an assessment of the individual proposals thereafter. A merger of Troms and Finnmark will strengthen our northernmost state. Finnmark and Troms together become a county municipality with great opportunities. The two municipalities have important educational and research institutions, rich access to natural resources and an exciting business with a high potential. Finnmark and Troms represent Norway’s border with the Arctic and Russia. The government is putting a heavy strain on the north, and the new county municipality is becoming an important player in the government's Northern Region Strategy. Good secondary education provides an important basis for the development of society in the north. Increased capacity and competence in the new county municipality can help increase the well-being and learning of students and reduce the drop-out rate in secondary schools. I think Finnmark and Troms will see more opportunities together and so make sure that the new county has cities and communities that are attractive enough to retain and attract skilled labour. All the municipalities that have been merged have been through demanding and important negotiations on the allocation of jobs and functions, the number of county council members in the new county and the name of the counties. While the other county municipalities have agreed on an agreement and are now in the process of building the new county municipalities, the road has been more demanding for Finnmark and Troms. Following the refusal by Finnmark of the agreement on the implementation of the merger, negotiated by means of mediation, the Municipality of Trom asked the Ministry of State to determine the composition and powers of the common denominator. Therefore, on Thursday 5 April, I established this in a regulation for the merger of Troms and Finnmark. The composition follows the negotiations of the two negotiating delegations in February 2018 up to the date of the merger agreement. I believe it is important that Finnmark County is well represented in the common denominator. I have therefore decided that Finnmark should have more members in common than the number of inhabitants in isolation. In particular, this is important now that the common denominator is given the power to decide on the organisation of the new county municipality. I also base the work of the general denominator on taking into account Finnmark and Vadsø in the allocation of jobs. Identity is important to us people, but I don't think we lose it even if administrative boundaries change. The Finnmark identity will remain strong, as will our connection to a municipality, a city and a branch. Society has changed significantly since the county boundaries were brought up in the mid 1800s. The Stortinget has now decided that county councils should be merged in order to ensure good capacity and competence to carry out important tasks for our citizens. The most important job is now that Troms and Finnmark themselves are going to do. I believe I have now arranged for Troms and Finnmark to follow up the Storting decision in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e474	I noticed that the Council of State was talking about population numbers and not so much about distance. Obviously, distance is incredibly important. The councils are going to Finnmark today, I understand, and then she will go from Alta to Kautokeino and Karasjok and then to Porsanger. In my view, it's one of the simplest trips in Finnmark. The council should probably take a trip to the coast. What we have now received is that we have received less money for use in Finnmark. The revenue system has led, inter alia, to: Troms and Finnmark are among the big losers in the transfer of money. For Finnmark it will amount to approx. 561 kroner and for Troms 745 kroner per capita. For Finnmark, this represents approx. Forty-two million. kr, and it's clear that thinking about the problems that Finnmark has, which are a little special, could mean a lot. In most cases, we have to send our young people to the center to attend high school, and many places are very much in need of better housing for young people, and that they are taken better care of than they have done. There are clearly many areas in which we could have spent money – racial protection, highways, better housing conditions, for the outlying people, as I mentioned, and also for the development of nutrition in the county. But is this a development the Council of State thinks Finnmark should fight for, or does the Council of State realize that people in Finnmark want a different development? We want a development that is forward-looking, and I don't feel that this is it. We're very afraid of what might happen. So how do we do it, for example? with house prices on the outskirts of Finnmark? Will they go down, too? You want to get something left for the houses etc.? I'm aware that I might be on a swinging basis, but my experience is that when you don't bet in a place, evolution goes down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e483	It's easy to understand the resistance to being overtested, isolated. I understand that, too. The question is just what you want as an alternative to Finnmark's part, because area and distance are of course important. I am very happy to have almost three days on a trip in Finnmark this week. It's people who make decisions, it's people who stand for competence, and it's people who stand for political influence. That's why the population means something. That's why it means what strengths you have in a county municipality, which is not just going to solve the problems you have today, but hopefully new tasks you're going to have in the future. Finnmark has some challenges today. You have challenges with school drop-outs. There are challenges to attracting the right skills. There are challenges to attracting labour. And it's not going to get any easier. It is going to be even more challenging in the transition of both private and public Norway over the next few years. You need to strengthen yourself, you need skills, and it cannot be adopted through a government budget, through a community economy. It is people who are politically elected in our counties and our municipalities who must implement that policy. That is why we have a system where you can disagree with the decision of the Storting, but you have to deal with them. It is not that municipalities and county municipalities can hold a referendum to over-test the decision of the Storting. We don't have that system. I really don't think any of us want to have that. That's why we now have to relate to the situation we have. It means – and I hope Finnmark now sees himself served with it – to move on and get a new, stronger county municipality in place. It will serve Finnmark's inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e494	There was a large majority in this Chamber to get a regional reform. Many had great expectations of it. Early on, it turned out that there were no such ambitions on the part of the government. More and more, it appeared as a non-content reform, the most important of which was to bring about a new geographical breakdown. Therefore, skepticism increased. Therefore, not least resistance increased. Nevertheless, we recorded that a majority consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party wanted to force a new geographical division, and they were willing to use force and ignore the frustration, fear and resistance that were around the counties. This applied to many more counties than only Finnmark. The Labour Party was also in favour of the reform, but we were against a new division by force. We didn't see that we could support it the way it came out. We were clear on this when we went to the elections. The size was a little different after the election. That is why Ingarill Olsen and I tried to promote a proposal for a representative, a document 8 proposal, that we should look at the matter again. The same majority voted in favour. We see that the turmoil and the resistance have increased after that. It's not getting any smaller. The argument that you're going to drive this through anyway, because that's what you've decided, at least doesn't stand out in the county. Here it is a majority who must take responsibility for the decisions that have been taken, not just once, but twice. You have to meet the people and institutions out there. You have to, I mean, listen and take the necessary action. There's a lot of frustration; there's a lot of uncertainty. When the minister says she's going to travel around Finnmark for a few days, it's very good. But what has emerged in the past, that one ignores Vadsø County Capital and steers it away on the journey, I hope the minister will reconsider.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e505	We have an electoral law that decides that the number of magnification representatives from the counties should be distributed according to a model where both the population of the constituency and the geographic size are important. It has been done in respect of the fact that large distances and diversity mean something to the ability to care for the interests of citizens as elected citizens. The government has chosen to disregard geographical distances in its division of the new county municipalities. This concerns the merger of Finnmark and Troms, which is the basis of today's interpellation, but it also applies to other merged states. We could hear in the statements of the Council of State here that the one-sided focus was on population, and not on the fact that we are talking here about large geographical distances with diversity and the ability to care for the interests of the population. The interpellant further indicated that in today's Finnmark there are 730 km between east and west in the county. If Finnmark and Troms are merged, there will be more than 1000 km between the outermost points of the new county. The geographical distances will also be very large in other counties to be established. The new Week, for example, shall extend from Halden to the Hallingsharvet, a distance many seem to be insurmountable. But here we're talking about considerably larger distances. The new geographic distances will be a challenge with new zoning. Demographic, cultural and other differences in industry, working life and population composition also make it easy to understand that the coercion of the counties is very poorly welcomed by people affected. The government has made life miserable for both states and municipalities who oppose becoming victims of the government's centralisation. Systematic policies are being pursued to make it more difficult to maintain today’s borders. At the same time, Oslo has been liberated from state reform, despite the fact that there are no places in the country where the need for cooperation across state borders is greater than just between Oslo and Akershus. In the past, the income system for municipalities and county councils has been tried to be designed according to objective criteria that meet actual cost needs to cover tasks and compensate for distance and structure. These criteria have been changed by the government. A lot of things have been removed, which were previously about discretion, just to compensate for distance and structural disadvantages. So the County Programme has become a structural reform, not a task reform, as we in the Centre Party want. Of course, the discussion of what tasks the county municipalities should have had should have been preceded by the discussion of how many counties we need. It should be obvious that you should first discuss what to do before discussing the structure around how to solve it. Fortunately, the government, following a directive from Stortinget, set up a sample to assess tasks that should be transferred from central government to county municipalities. Now their proposals are being consulted, and I have noted with satisfaction that many of the proposals that have been promoted by the Hagen Committee are largely in line with proposals that the Central Party has already promoted here in the Stortinget. I also noticed that the Council of State said she looked forward to many of these tasks hopefully being able to be transferred. It will be exciting to follow. 14 May, Finnmark holds a referendum on the merger with Troms. It should actually have consequences for several states, because the state reform was rushed by the government. The counties carried out orders to investigate the need for aggregation, but only the Agder and Trøndelag made voluntary decisions. The remainder of the coup d'état has been adopted in breach of its own decisions. There should have been a referendum in the counties as many of the municipalities did. But both the time pressure and, not least, the fact that most of the county councils did not consider merging with the neighbouring states as appropriate, did not mean that it was put up for more county referendums. In retrospect, a lot of people see that they should have done what Finnmark is doing. Probably we'll get a new debate in several states on whether to follow Finnmark, and I expect the government not to rattle those who want to conduct a referendum now. I also expect the referendum to be listened carefully to. That is what is called democracy, and in democracy Norway there must be opportunities to change, including for a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e530	You don't strengthen local democracy by overruning it, and that's what's been done in this case. There is a lack of civil respect for local democracy, a lack of clarity in what you want, and a lack of respect for local views. What are these big regions going to do? That should be the first question. And then you could solve the problems. Then you know what you need to do these problems. But the government has done the opposite. I heard the Council of State justify it so that as a starting point you had a desire to grow bigger and stronger. No, that wasn't the starting point at all. The starting point was that both government parties, when the Right Party and the Advance Party, wanted to put down the county municipalities. That was the starting point. Then it was a representative proposal in Stortinget that said you would look at a regional reform. When this was done, you did not clear the problems, but you looked at the size, and – we also got confirmed now – that is the number of heads that are the most important. It is not that there are more Finnmark inhabitants to join Finnmark with Troms – just as little as there are more inhabitants of Hedmark to join it with Uppland. It won't be. You don't get stronger with the number of people. It's not like areas, distances and geography are changing. Nothing of this is being changed. What politicians can change is the means and tasks that we give to these areas, which enable them to be strengthened or weakened. And there's a government that's very strong on centralisation policy. I understand very well the popular resistance that is now in Finnmark, because Finnmark is special. Finnmark has huge distances and few inhabitants, but rich resources, which the Council of State was also in. It's clear that from that point of view, special insight and special dedication are required to achieve this. You have great distances in Troms too – a little more people, but great distances – but a completely different central centre of gravity than what you have in Finnmark. So this in distance and geography becomes a giant, with few people, doesn't make you stronger. The fear Finnmark now has, especially because this is going to weaken them, is easy to understand, because this is how centralization works. Merging seems centralizing. It does it whether we like it or not, but we can say it honestly, because that's the way it is. It's going to happen here as well. I have asked the Council of State about the distribution of, among other things, the state workplaces and what to now ensure of activity in Finnmark. The Council of State can reasonably assure that, until the merger date, this must be ensured, but in addition to that, it is not. Of course, the geographically most populous area would seem to be a magnet of a lot of government business and administration. And these jobs are very important in Finnmark. In addition, the Council of State mentions the reform being undertaken by the government, namely the unpriority cheese skills of general government, which means that these organisations are asked to reduce the number of employees. They will be required to do it locally, and then, of course, the meat weight after every three will become much heavier. SV has opposed these forced marriages. We have made proposals to give the counties the opportunity to get a happy divorce. Unfortunately, Stortinget has voted down, and I find the strangest and most critical of those responsible in this matter actually a Christian People's Party, because I do not understand what they have been doing in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e547	It's my claim that if people in South Norway had understood Finnmark, traveled in Finnmark, got involved in history, business and at all the social life in Finnmark, this would not have been a theme at all. There are so few in South Norway, and there are so few among the elite in South Norway, who have some relationship with Finnmark. There are so few who are aware that Finnmark is of the size of Eastfold, Akershus, Oslo, Buskerud, Vestfold, Telemark and East-Agder, and there are even fewer who are aware that the distances within Finnmark are longer than the distance along the way from Oslo to Namsos – from Oslo to Namsos. There are also very few who have a relationship with the cultural and historical traditions that are in Finnmark, why the state engaged in Finnmark to ensure that one had a residence and activity in Finnmark. It was a nation-state project. There are few who are aware of why Finnmark has five staging representatives – five staging representatives that Finnmark would not have received if the council had taken its view of the population. But the government and the government have not made any proposals to destroy the population, thus weakening the representation here in the Storting – they have not dared to do so. Finnmark is a brand name. When a user is coerced, there is anxiety and resistance is increasing. The Council of State says that the population should mean more to solve future tasks. What does that mean? Well, that means centralizing. Should it not be that in a number of areas, one should have equivalence in the offer regardless of whether there are few or many people living in a place? Norway is such that it is both densely built and pig-grown. Then the question is, what should a reason be given? Should an ideology be taken into account, or should an ideology be based on a fact: what does Norway look like? The center part is on the last one. One shall take into account the fact and organise the democratic institutions of Norway according to the circumstances. It is quite obvious that if Finnmark is a state of its own, it will have greater political power to develop the state in line with the wishes of the population. It's seaworthy what the population is aware of. It's said what the population won't give up, because it's a matter of political power. If there is one area in Norway that needs more political power, it is Finnmark. Finnmark is probably the area in Norway that needs more political power, when you look at business. There is a clear link between high school dropout and a business where one has too poor framework conditions for the fishing industry, for the fisheries sector, so that the young people interested in the fishing industry can earn ordinary, good money there. And in order to do that, you have to have power, and then you have to organize a political power of the group that makes up Finnmark's population. That's how we have to adapt it. But the government is running on and provoking the population, and then the council says here that we can't hold referendums to try out the Storting. It's a matter of course. It is usually lawful to conduct referendums – it should be lacking. Should we not have an emergency valve in our democracy that says that one can show his popular commitment through a referendum when it goes all the way? That's what the matter is now. What is then my final point is: Will the Council of State ignore the popular uprising against the coercion in Troms and Finnmark, no matter how much attendance, and no matter how much resistance it brings? I ask the Council of State to respond to that in its final statement. Will the Council of State ignore the outcome, no matter what the result? That is what is at the heart of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e566	We have heard today the Council of State talk about the merger of Finnmark and Troms as if it were structures, governance and simply the displacement of borders. To a very small extent, the Council of State took into account the impact it would have on the population living in the county, which shows that they are very strongly opposed to this – as the elected bodies in the county have also shown. I think I can be said to be one of those who are most concerned about a knowledge-based policy, often the one who is on guard and says, "Now we don't have to let the feelings take over and let them decide." Let the numbers speak. Let's make rational choices. Today, I heard the state council use disqualification in high school as an argument. It must at best be called a strawman's argument. Absence in secondary education cannot possibly be solved by such a merger. It has to happen to more and better teachers, more teacher density. With the teachers' norm now proposed by the government, it will not solve the issue of non-response, but make it bigger. So that's going to be the opposite. Knowledge of emotions, remorse and dissatisfaction is also important. When we talk to people in Finnmark, we often hear such terms used about the aggregation that is on the agenda. They ask questions like, Aren't we good enough? What do they want to do with us? Why should this giant state be formed? What's the reason? At least the reason cannot be a lack of value creation. Let me give you an example: in the municipality of Hasvik, the value creation per capita is about 1 million. kr. From the Central Party, we have argued that our proposals for task transfers can well be done with today's county councils. A merge process is not required to deliver new and larger tasks to the states. The same will apply to the proposals now being put forward by the Hagen Committee. As has been repeated several times, Finnmark holds a referendum on the merger with Troms. I think it should be followed by several counties. Several states should use this valve as a referendum may be. And as a health care professional, I'm actually seriously concerned about the consequences it has for the Finnmark population of the Finnmarks that now experience purely health-related – of the constant concerns that we impose on them by putting people in such a quandary, with a sense of abstinence and dissatisfaction, that they have no influence on what happens, that they don't get where the decisions are made. It is important that we have democratic processes and that we listen to all the people. Therefore, let the referendum on 14 May be decisive, and let the Stortinget take a decision in line with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e581	It's about people. It's about people's lives, the services they have on them, and the everyday life they live – in Finnmark. I have to ask the House: are we a successful country, are we the world's best country to live in? Quality of life is also about the proximity of decisions that affect our everyday lives. Historically, and before the 1980s national collection, it was about. 30 small kingdoms in Norway. Finnmark has been a proud country for the last 100 years. The parallel between the Viking Age and today’s Norway is important to understand because much of the power was in — and lies in — the resources, the responsibility follows the resources. The resources are about both the area and the area. The government must realize that Finnmarking is also a resource even if they remain in a state of their own – a huge state, a rich state. Resources and values – and values of them – are also about what you measure and how you weigh. The signals from the Right-Handed Department in recent years have been many and clear: we need to address the challenges we are facing and look forward to. We agree. The Council of State points out that county councils will have more tasks and that it will be rewarding to be state politicians. I would like to point out that Finnmark is already working for that. It seems to be very rewarding to be state politicians in Finnmark. Public administration and organisation are important. The distance between people, services and administration is important. In different sectors, in different disciplines and in different services, we need proximity just to have knowledge, ownership and interest. Understandably, local government and local authorities are better off both in the populace, businesses and the common Finnish mark. Now that the government is reforming the way we organize the People's Government, we need to see problems and solutions in the context. If the purpose is a lift for Finnmark, to take action for recruitment and to increase competence, the Centre Party believes that this is where the discussion must be, not whether Finnmark should be a separate state or one. One thing is for the council and the government to have, they've definitely put life in an uprising and an commitment to Finnmark – we who want Finnmark, and we who believe in Finnmark. In fact, Norway is above the average for OECD countries in a quality of life indicator. Quality of life is just about our ability to influence the decisions that are being made, which affect our everyday lives – affecting decisions that affect us, decisions that are only good with good governance and anchoring in the people, anchoring in the inhabitants. This depends on proximity. The Ministry has not recommended referendums or advised on this. The centre party wants predictability for all actors – for the people – in Finnmark. That's when referendum is a good thing. When people elected in the state – the daily administrators of just power, responsibility and resources in Finnmark – want referendums, that's good. Then I sincerely hope that the department and big business will listen to the people of Finnmark. Norway is the world's best country to live in, and I hope it will continue to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e609	Today's government, Right, Advance Party and some others obviously believe that the answer to everything in society is centralization and coercion. Through one reform after another, while claiming to change for the better, the reality is centralisation, bureaucracy and coercion. These are often reforms with no real content other than centralisation and delimitation. Today’s government has committed linguistic abuse of the concept of reform, and step by step they provide additional strength for the centralisation and bureaucracy of Norway. The resources and values are found in the whole country, they want the government, but for the government it is certainly a problem that people live here, because there is no doubt that, among other things. Regional reform is going to go beyond the provision of services to people. We note that the Storting decision on the coercion of county municipalities was made without proposals for the decentralisation of tasks and the strengthening of regional planning. The more recent and stronger role of communities as community developers is not developed, it is weakened. I'm from Troms, who is now adopted coercive with Finnmark, and I don't know if everyone is aware of the size of North Norway. From the northeastmost point in Finnmark to the southernmost point in Troms, it is 1,075 km. It takes 16 hours to drive a car. It's actually one hour shorter if one actually chooses to drive through Finland. The distances in the north are already large enough. I am therefore pleased that the Senterpartiet has stood up in this matter, in both the two quarters and also on the Stortinget. We need a reform. The reform we actually need is a reform of trust where the state of Norway again has confidence that those who actually do the job know what they do, without centralizing and red tape society in their entirety – the police officer, the teacher, the business owner, the local politician, the plumber, the fisherman, the farmer or the nurse.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e618	There are many uprisings in Finnmark. From Finnmark to Oslo it's enormously long, and in Finnmark we don't have that strong relationship with what's happening in Oslo, but we're very strongly affected by the decisions that are being made in this room. In addition to being at Stortinget, I also belong to those who fight to get the fish back to Finnmark. In Varde, there are a lot of people who want more work, who want to do themselves, who want to get more activity and get more people in schools, get more people in high school, etc. Most of it is laid down, and most of it is centralised. What is important is that you have work, that you have more jobs. That's where the focus should have been. That's where we should put the bump on the municipal side and the work side and everything -- not this, because it just makes people go further down. They must have a hope. What happens here is that the government ignores what the people want. You only talk about area and large numbers in terms of population. It's clear that in Finnmark we're not that many, and we're not going to be more if we join Troms. It won't be any better if we merge like that. It also weakens democracy, as I see it. It makes it much harder for people to get involved. I won't say that much more. I think it has been a very good debate. I thank the Council of State for being here and saying what she has said. I disagree very much with what she does. I would like to invite you to be with her on a slightly different trip than the one she adds up to now. I would still like to ask a final question: is the government going to ignore and ignore a referendum?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e631	There have been some questions related to my traveler in Finnmark, and I can only rest assured that I will visit Vadsø next Tuesday. I'm going to Finnmark, too. Let me begin by saying that I think Karin Andersen so to say put the closet in its proper place when she stressed that this reform work was initiated from Stortinget. That's absolutely right. The Stortinget has wanted a regional reform, the Stortinget has wanted three levels of government. Then the government relates to it. I think that's pretty clever, given that you're in a government and especially a minority government. We fought for larger and strong municipalities. I have to say that the representative Andersen is completely wrong when she says that getting bigger does not give any more. Well, it does. One of my major concerns is the efforts of municipalities in the area of child protection. When we know that a lot of municipalities only have one employee, it'll be much better if there's two, if there's three, or if there's ten employees. It provides more competence, it provides more attractive jobs, and it provides better child protection. So it means something if you just merge. It means you're getting more. So I understand that you're concerned about keeping the state of things as they are, you're very satisfied with the state of things, you want the same division that you've had since 1844. I disagree, the world has moved on. There is an enormous need for conversion on both counties, municipalities and businesses, and then you have to be able to meet those challenges. It will not be resolved by the State budget. I agree that distance is important, but distance is not the most important thing, because it is people who have competence, it is people who implement politics. Then we have to have people and a force that enables people, whether in Finnland or in Agder, to offer the services equally well wherever you are in this country. I've heard many people who want it the way it is. I haven't heard a lot of alternative plans for the way forward for county municipalities that want to be 70,000 people. I think it's right to get bigger, I think it's right to move out problems. Of course, the most fascinating thing is to be accused of centralizing when what we're doing is the very opposite -- we're decentralizing, we're shifting power out, we're moving out problems, and that's precisely because problems have to be solved densely possible on the population. There have been many questions about referendum. I just have to say, it's the government's job to implement the Storting decision. So much for imagining people that the Storting is made up of mostly Oslo people. It doesn't. The size is represented from all over the country, the Stortinget has not taken one decision, but two decisions on this merger. We're going to relate to that. So you might think it's important to have referendums, but if we're going to have a system where municipalities can overdo the Storting not only in the matters you agree with, but also where you disagree, it becomes a whole new political system that I really don't think any of us want. My task is to implement the decision of the Storting, and it stands firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e644	The debate on substance is closed. 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e660	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e667	Today, we are addressing the first ICT Security flash message, and this is an important message. We are far ahead in Norway with digital solutions, and it gives our country and its inhabitants new and fast opportunities for services, while also making our country more vulnerable. It is positive that a message is presented that gathers the knowledge that is leading in this field. And I want to thank the Committee for a good cooperation with the cases. ICT security at a superior level is about protecting the individual citizen and nation as a whole against digital vulnerabilities and attacks. In addition, good data security and privacy are essential for people to have confidence in ICT systems. The threat assessment shows that emerging countries are willing to use an instrument to access sensitive and protective information and to influence political, economic and administrative decisions. There are considerable financial losses related to ICT crime, and in addition, there are a number of times that ICT systems fail due to human errors, software errors, equipment errors, natural events or a combination of these, which are well described in this message. Norway is one of the most digitised countries in the world, and it is crucial, in the Committee's view, that society has access to knowledge and a greater awareness of vulnerabilities in the digital space. The Committee therefore supports the efforts of the government to facilitate enhanced cooperation across private and public activities, between civil and military activities, across borders, in order to identify and reduce digital vulnerability in society. During the hearing, the Judicial Committee received many very good impressions. Several actors were clear that they thought this was a good message, but that it was not concrete enough. Several of those who were listening pointed out that the analyses of the Light 1 selection were not passed on to a sufficient degree. And the plurality of the committee, which consists of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV, has taken on many of these recordings and therefore makes a lot of suggestions on the matter today. A weakness I want to highlight is that the message does not acknowledge that both individual and small enterprises may have limited capacity to secure themselves against threats in the digital field. The majority of the Committee is therefore critical that no measures have been proposed to reduce this vulnerability. Knowledge of ICT security is crucial for awareness-raising and prevention, and this knowledge is of great importance in promoting a culture of safe behaviour. I believe that the state should take responsibility annually for obtaining and proposing key management information. We also support Abelia's claim that the Stortinget should discuss the need for a public awareness campaign aimed at improving the ICT security culture in Norway. The majority and I in the Committee are concerned about the lack of ICT competence. The same thing happened to a number of actors. Now I don't have time to do things for everything; you can see it in the comments, but a few of the suggestions we make today are for example. that ICT security needs to be prioritised in the next long-term research and higher education plan, and that all pupils through the primary school have experience in programming, and that this work is already under way on the children’s sphere. For a while, there has been a lot of remarkable reference to the lack of candidates that can be cleared up and expanded to cryptologists. There is a crisis during cryptography, which was also clearly expressed during the hearing of this message. The majority in the Committee, which is still the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, believe that there is a need for concrete measures to increase the recruitment of doctoral candidates who can be cleared up for safety. There is some disagreement in the Committee on both the scope and use of service posting, or outsourcing in good Norwegian. I would like to refer to the comments of the Workers' Party both in this case and in the Security Act, Prop. 153 L for 2017-2018, where we clearly state that information related to national security interests must be required to be operated and stored in Norway. Then there is an incurrence in the vote: the Labour Party should also be included in the proposal of the Centre Party that also mentions storage when it relates to national security interests, and will vote in favour of it during the vote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e692	Perhaps the representative will address the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e697	That's what the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e702	The representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e707	I would like to pay a lot of tribute to the systematic and holistic approach the government sees in the ICT security message. Technological progress is undoubtedly an important vehicle for our combined value creation and growth, and not least for our country's preparedness. It makes our everyday life simpler and safer, but it is also so that technological progress makes us vulnerable and challenges us as individuals and as a society. Digital Vulnerability Selection, the Bright Selection, revealed in the work its vulnerability in a range of areas that it is important to take seriously. Different experiences have shown us that the risk picture has changed in many areas in recent years. It is essential that enterprises and individuals have confidence in the proper functioning of systems and networks, not least that the privacy of individuals is taken into account. Rapid digitisation has led to a greater need to adapt and clarify regulations and laws. The recently adopted Security Act takes on board and has been more adapted to the new challenges. Clear requirements for what is to be taken into account in the case of security-graded purchases include: downgraded in the laws. For activities that manage critical infrastructure but fall outside the security framework, the ICT Security Selection will assess whether there is a need for additional regulation beyond the existing ICT security legislation. Depending on the scope of all recommendations and requirements in this area may be necessary. Through the forthcoming action plan, the government will facilitate a national strategy for ICT security in order to facilitate the evaluation and prioritisation of actions in the field of ICT security based on the size and level of maturity of the enterprise. The government has put in place several important measures to detect and manage digital attacks. This work depends on a good interaction between authorities, the sector environment and public and private activities. Cooperation between actors has been strengthened through the establishment of a national framework. An arrangement of how a digital border defence can be established and regulated is under way. A joint cyber coordination centre was established in March 2017 to enhance the nation’s ability to withstand severe digital attacks. The establishment of a national cyber crime centre at Kripos, to arm the police to deal with crime on and against the Internet, is under way. Police in general have strengthened their capacity and competence, have modernised and upgraded police methods, and are now more in place to capture and detect criminal acts in the digital space. Building up skills in ICT in general and ICT security in particular is a priority. Pending the ICT security competence strategy, which is under way, the government has already taken a number of important measures. The opposition calls for increased recruitment of eligible PhD candidates. They may also have to take into account the fact that a good recruitment basis has to be established first through a wider range of potential candidates. The government has increased the annual admission to ICT education by 1 250 higher education places at the bachelor and master levels. An important job is done in the university and college environments to recruit students for these places, which we see results from. In 2018, the government has branded 22 ICT recruitment settings with emphasis on ICT security. And since 2015, it's allowed more than 350 million. SEK to bet A secure information society under the auspices of IKTPLUSS by the Norwegian Research Council. This will contribute to more PhD candidates and more research among others. within cryptology. In primary and secondary education, curricula will be reviewed in these days to adapt them to the future. Finally, on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party, I would like to convey that we do not support the proposals that are put forward by the Committee. Not because we're disagreeable with everything that's come up, but because we're looking at the suggestions like opening doors. Most of the things that have been proposed are all in progress or are being handed out – or one will govern detail, for which we do not have a tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e730	I would like to start by saying that it is very nice to be back in Stortinget after three months of leave to take part in a master's course in Defence. There is also something I can recommend to all my co-representatives at the strongest possible level. I would also like to congratulate our new Minister of Justice, Tor Mikkel Vara, who is here today. It's an important message we're handling today. When we talk about the threats within ICT and the cyber domain, we're not talking about the future, we're talking about the present. The truth is that almost any potential for horror that can be described is not something that is the challenge of the future, but something that we are exposed to already today, but perhaps to a lesser extent than we can expect to see in the future. We've been horribly reminded of this in our own little country lately. The Health South-East case is one example where the PST has publicly stated that they suspect that other countries or state actors can stand behind. Last year we saw a very attack on many companies, who got their files kidnapped by the so-called ransomware and had to pay ransoms to access them again. We have also seen how data attacks can physically destroy hard installations of various types. The most extreme – but by no means unimaginable – is using data attacks to control things that end up with life being lost. I would also mention that NATO has recently stated that a cyberattack can trigger an Article 5 situation, namely that a cyberattack on one of our allies can be considered an attack on the entire alliance. The NHO Security Council conducts each year a darkest survey. In 2014, 5 pst. of the enterprises interviewed that they were hacked or tried to hack, while the actual figure was over 50 pst. In the same investigation in 2016, 27 pst replied. by the establishments that they were being hacked, and that they knew they were. Nearly half said they discovered this by chance. This is just one example of the challenge we face, and its scope. Future organised crime, terrorism, extortion and various other major societal challenges are likely to take place in the field of ICT. This is not a scare propaganda, but an attempt to describe the reality we're facing. And the attacks will happen where the protection is weaker. The ICT message provides a systematic review of the many fields exposed in this image. The Lights Committee has done a comprehensive, affordable and important job to address this and to prepare us as best we can. I also want to commend the government for highlighting some absolutely crucial factors in order for us to succeed in being better protected in the future. This concerns the importance of cooperation with industry and the private actors. It is not enough to stress the importance of this, as much critical information and many of the attacks are aimed at business. Without this cooperation, we cannot succeed. Another important element is international cooperation. We are, after all, a small country in a world with great threats, and together with our friends and allies, we get a much more accurate and comprehensive picture, which makes us safer, not least when trying to intrude. It is both naive and unrealistic to believe that we can do all this alone, and without this cooperation we are less protected. Another thing I want to mention is the importance of not shutting down the doors and shutting ourselves in, because the digital everyday life we are part of and benefit from, is due to innovation and technology development that would not have been possible without meetings between companies across borders. This is a fundamental good, and although the threats become more complicated by the digital world in which we live, cooperation across borders makes us safer and better able to meet these challenges. Last but not least, I'd like to mention strengthening the police in order to deal with and investigate cybercrime. Today's and tomorrow's criminals are no longer first and foremost robbers running with the search results on the street, a little after an old, nostalgic model from Cardamom City, they like to sit somewhere completely different from where the The police reform was a first and decisive step towards making the police more adaptable to today's reality, but we need to strengthen the police's capabilities and capacity even more in this field. The aim of this Communication is to reduce the vulnerability of society to ICT and to improve our ability to detect and deal with attacks. This message is an important piece of work, but it's still just the beginning of something I think we're going to work a lot on in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e758	It is positive that the Storting is now addressing the first ICT security hotspot. ICT security is an important part of our national security, and it is an area that will become increasingly important over time, as society becomes increasingly digitised. Already in 2017, Norway was designated the world's most digital country, and we need to provide a basis for our country to have the necessary competence and security in this area, both now and in the future. Digital development has given us many opportunities. Digitisation contributes to value creation and growth and can in many ways contribute to a safer society. At the same time, digitisation poses a high risk and active policies are required to minimise this risk. In particular, ensuring the personal data of citizens, national interests and critical infrastructure is a political responsibility. It is also a political responsibility to provide for the prevention and proper management of adverse events that can have significant economic and safety implications, both for individuals and for society. Although the Central Party is positive that the government has submitted a communication on ICT security, we also believe that there are areas where the notification could have been much stronger. The majority of the Judicial Committee, consisting of the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, have made a number of proposals that could make the Stockholm Council's examination of the ICT security communication more concrete and more committed. I hope that we get a majority for as many of the proposals here today as possible. Firstly, there is a great need for ICT security competence, and that need is growing. The majority of the Judicial Committee has made proposals to ensure the necessary competence in ICT security for all ICT trained candidates. We have proposed that better provision of continuing education and training should be made at specialised schools, universities and higher education institutions in the field of ICT and data security. We want digitisation and ICT security to be prioritised in the next long-term research and higher education programme and for all primary school students to gain experience in programming. Today, there is a critical shortage of candidates that can be security cleared and trained as cryptologists. There's a crisis in the run-up. That's why we want to strengthen the recruitment of doctoral candidates who can be cleared for security. These are all important measures that will enable us to have the ICT security skills we need in Norway in the future. Government parties seem to share our view that better ICT security skills are needed in Norway. That's why I think it's very sad that the parties will not support our proposals, which facilitate that. When we now deal with a major communication on ICT security, it would have been natural to put in place obligatory plans to ensure the very future of ICT competence. Norway has one of the most digitised societies in the world, and if digitalisation is still to be our strength and not our weakness, we cannot afford to slow down in the field of ICT security. Another theme the Centre Party is busy with is data storage and operation. The centre party believes that you should not be uncritical of the release of services in terms of sensitive and displayable information. We believe that very sensitive personal data and information relating to national security interests need to be stored and operated in Norway. Any storage of other data abroad requires clarification of vulnerability and risk assessment requirements, and that assessment must also cover the legal and security situation in the country to which it is to be posted. In addition, the ICT security message has to be seen in the context of the Security Act. It is now that the Safety Act covers only some types of activities, although there may be an equal need for safety and vulnerability assessments in other areas. The Centre Party considers that there is a need for clearer rules, a clearer framework for security and vulnerability assessments in establishments that manage, inter alia. critical infrastructure but outside the scope of the Safety Act. I would like to address the proposals No. 6, 8 and 9 in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e781	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e786	As we hear, everyone is pleased that we are now receiving a message about ICT security. That's good. Such a case shall have attention. But the consensus in this room is so big, and the intention is so divided, that there's relatively little attention out there. Digital development is a good thing, but at the same time it can also be a curse. Maybe that's what we're particularly concerned about. Large amounts of sensitive data can be collected and stored, and can easily be diverted and abused for purposes that we do not like. In the last few weeks, we have become familiar with – and it is advocating to today’s debate – the fact that personal information about over 80 million users of Facebook has been diverted and abused for political purposes. Therefore, it is also good and correct that after the processing of this message, the Storting receives a notification on the processing of privacy. These things are kind of bordering on each other. A general objective of ICT work is to ensure good, safe and stable deliveries, but also to ensure that sensitive information does not go astray. There's two relationships I want to deal with around this. One is the need to tighten up the use of the deployment of ICT services. The second is to ensure that the collection of personal data through the Defence is lawful. There is some disagreement in the Committee in the debate on the level of provision of ICT services in Norway. We believe that the use of Norwegian suppliers gives some better protection from the fact that information should be diverted. The deployment of state ICT services, especially to foreign companies, increases the risk of vulnerability and that more people who should not have access to sensitive information actually get it. There are many factors involved, both in terms of distance — it is an obvious practical advantage that sensitive information about Norwegian citizens can be managed within Norwegian borders — and also in legal terms. This type of information should be protected within Norwegian jurisdiction. It will also facilitate the investigation if something goes wrong. It is enough to refer to the case in Health South-East, about how personal information from Norwegian patients has gone astray. The case is now being investigated by PST. This is a difficult investigation, because it deals with laws in several countries. I would also like to mention that we are concerned about personal data about Norwegian citizens collected through the E-service listening stations in Ringerijk. This goes into this matter, and we have also made some suggestions for dealing with this message. The NRK announced on 2 March this year that large amounts of data were collected and stored by the Swedish Defence Intelligence Service. In connection with this, it became unclear whether it was actually legal. Both the head of the EOS Committee, Eldbjørg Løwer, and the professional director of the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights, Anine Kierulf, raised doubts about the legality of this data collection of personal data. The Intelligence Act states: ‘The follow-up service shall not monitor or otherwise obtain information on Norwegian natural or legal persons in the Norwegian territory.’;» So they've done it anyway. We therefore believe that there is a need to clarify whether the E-service is authorised by the Intelligence Services Act to store metadata such as: contains information about Norwegian citizens. Intelligence and monitoring in a digitised age must take place under a clear legal framework and under very strict conditions. We have therefore also asked the Minister of Defense to come to the Stortinget to explain this, and whether this is actually lawful. In this case, we asked the government to clarify whether Section 3 of the Intelligence Services Act allows data to be collected, to operate in the communications sector in Norway. And with that, I'll take up SV's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e816	The representative, Petter Eide, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e821	We are living at a time when technological development is going very fast. Only in the last ten years has there been a ripple development. Norway is one of the most digitised countries in the world. It is then crucial that we take action to minimise the vulnerability of digital space security. Awareness-raising among individuals, skills-enhancing actions and ICT security requirements across industries and systems are central. I am therefore pleased with the big message that the government has now presented and that we are discussing here today. The communication addresses the challenges we face in a good way and provides a good basis for action to be taken. I would therefore like to start by giving praise to the government, which has put in place a lot of good work that will help reduce the digital vulnerability of society. Good ICT security is important for society in general and for individuals. It is absolutely essential that we ensure that information is diverted and that critical systems collapse. ICT security must therefore be strengthened at and between multiple levels and at different levels, including across public and private activities, between civil and military activities and across borders. The Christian People's Party, like a single judicial committee, supports the government's efforts to strengthen cooperation to reduce digital vulnerability in society. Several hearing bodies have expressed the need for enhanced cooperation between public and private enterprises related to ICT security. The different sectors have different competences, knowledge and capacities, but still have many of the different challenges and are interdependent on the proper functioning of the systems. It is therefore positive that the government facilitates the exploitation of each other's experience and competence by establishing a common forum for public-private enterprises. This could contribute to strengthening the work on ICT security in society. To safeguard ourselves against threats in digital space, it is important that the measures are available and affordable for us as individual individuals and for small businesses with limited capacity and competence. It is therefore positive that the government of the next action plan for the national level of ICT security will provide measures aimed at small businesses and individuals. This work must be followed closely to ensure that the measures fulfil the intention to minimise the vulnerability of society in general. To meet the challenges of the future – and then challenges that are currently unknown – we need to strengthen ICT skills and, in particular, ICT security. Competence is crucial to the development of good systems that minimise vulnerability and to assess and analyse the risks and vulnerability of the digital space. I am pleased that the government has already taken action. It is absolutely essential that we have wise heads in this area that can secure us against various threats, both in terms of analysis and at system level. It is therefore necessary to put in place several places of study and doctoral thesis in the field of ICT security, while at the same time strengthening further education and training. I warn you that the Christian People's Party will support the proposals for Decisions I, V, VI and XI. The reason why we don't support everyone, although we support the intention in many of them, is that someone is too detailed, while in the case of others, we know that there is a good work going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e836	Digitalisation is positive for all of us, whether as citizens, as a business or Norway as a nation. A key prerequisite for successful digitisation is the need to take place within a framework in which ICT security is also ensured in all sectors and at all stages. Since the Ministry of Justice and Security took over the responsibility for the coordination of ICT security in 2013, there has been a great deal of focus on establishing a systematic approach to the area and on knowledge development. Just setting up an independent Vulnerability Selection, the Lysne Selection, which looked exclusively at digital vulnerabilities, was a very important step in this process and, not least, put ICT security on the agenda properly. The ICT Security Storing Communication is also the first call for proposals dealing exclusively with ICT security. This in itself, I believe, shows that we prioritise this field higher than what has been in the past. We're more forward-looking, and we want to raise this important area. It is not without reason that the Storing Communication was named ‘ICT Security — A Common Responsibility’. We all have a common interest and responsibility in securing our values. The challenge in the digital space is cross-border for national countries, for sectors and for activities. Development is going very fast, so even if we get better at a lot, it requires continuous conversion and increased attention. The authorities therefore rely entirely on cooperation and partnership to find the best solutions. The Judicial Committee adopts several decisions to enhance the competence of ICT security. The government is also very concerned with the gap in skills in areas and that the provision of skills must meet the needs of the labour market. The government has therefore launched a series of actions to meet the competence challenge, which I can come back to during the debate. Service outsourcing is another current theme. It is important to stress that service outsourcing can provide better security, availability, innovative services and lower costs. However, it presupposes an adequate level of competence and an overview of the risk profile to ensure safety and the implementation of the necessary measures. A service deferral must therefore always be assessed in the light of a multi-ethnic risk assessment. Nor should we forget that Norway itself has green data centres as a bet area, which requires us to take over the global and boundless nature of the Internet. The suspension calls for clearer rules and frameworks for risk and vulnerability assessments and national requirements for such assessments for critical infrastructure managers. Many critical infrastructures will be better secured by new safety laws. In addition, we are working with the EU NIS Directive and have set up an ICT security committee that looks at the need for further regulation. There is a great need to develop police capabilities and competences to prevent and combat ICT crime. An important step has been to have Kripos set up a national cybercrime centre. This will be an important pillar of better investigation, evidence assurance and methodological development in the Norwegian police. To put further pressure on the work on ICT security in Norway, we are developing a new national ICT security strategy with an accompanying action plan. In the strategy and action plan process, we place particular emphasis on an open and inclusive process. As an important part of this, a strategy conference was held on 6 March in which over 300 people from both public and private activities participated. The government believes that broad inclusion is important to contribute to good anchoring, ownership and follow-up of the strategy and action plan across both the private and public sectors. I would like to end by stressing that privacy and ICT security are essential prerequisites for the successful digitisation of Norwegian society. These are necessary prerequisites to preserve our values, our democracy and our well-being. This is ultimately the core of the issues addressed in the main message.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e851	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e856	Today we know that ICT crime is strongly increasing. It's a threat to people's security. At the same time, we know that the police districts are not well enough equipped to face this crime today, and that the demanding resource situation in the districts will make it necessary to build a good environment against ICT crime throughout the country. Therefore, my question to the Council of State why not ICT crime is a more central part of the message, and what the Council of State will do to put police districts in a better position in the fight against ICT crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e861	ICT crime is a priority area. This is also why the government has taken the initiative to provide Kripos with a national cybercentre for the fight against crime. But precisely ICT and cybercrime are examples of things that don't fit into the old police model with lentils and cannon offices, but where it's important to have professional environments that are strong and good, and sometimes national. The most important thing here is that we have to start from the threats that exist, and what skills we need, and then we have to have it. This is a priority area, but it has not been given that this should be done at all service locations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e866	I thank you for your answer. Another issue we address is that individual and small enterprises have limited capacity to secure themselves against threats in the digital field. We have also said in our remarks that we are critical of the lack of concrete measures to reduce vulnerability to this group. This also appeared very clearly during the hearing we had about this matter. So my question to the Council of State is, how will the Council of State ensure that the people have access to knowledge and thus raise awareness of the vulnerability of the digital spaces?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e873	This big message is one of the measures that starts a longer run to spread, warn and learn about ICT security in the population. There must be more initiatives. There will be conferences, and we are planning an action plan. It is quite obvious that we cannot do everything – we have to invite business to join in. But we have an obligation to make sure that business is involved in this issue, including small businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e878	During the hearing of the Justice Committee, we received a specific report from Abelia, where they wanted the Stortinget to discuss the possibility of a public awareness campaign. There is a proposal we are making today that the government party does not support. Can the Council of States answer as to why such a proposal cannot be supported?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e883	Now we're getting this big message through, and it's natural for us to consider all possible measures to follow it. But it may well be detailed, or especially, to decide for special types of campaigns. The most important thing here is that we have to find out where there is still need and lack, and how we get there. It may be a campaign, but it may also be school, it may also be ordinary education, and it may also be other courses and conferences that are important. The most important thing is to achieve the goal and start with it before selecting the instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e888	We have seen examples of major security scandals related to service outsourcing and personal data. For example: The health of the South-East case was given access to patient data for 2.8 million of our citizens, by non-resident IT workers, and this happened without the company being informed. This applies to so many of our citizens, and the Central Party is quite clear that very sensitive personal data must be stored and operated in Norway, because people have to be able to trust that their information does not go astray. It's our responsibility as a big deal to give leadership for it. Unfortunately, the government does not agree, and therefore my question to the Council of State: How will the government really ensure that sensitive personal data stored and operated from abroad do not go astray?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e898	I think there have been several examples of service outsourcing decisions where risk assessments have been flawed and should have been better. But the important thing is that we make clear demands, have clear criteria and are good at it. Something quite different is a proposal which states in principle that the data should be stored in the country from which they come. I would like to remind you that it will be deployed almost 200 data centres in Europe by 2020. Norway has joined and invited a number of companies to stockpile in Norway. Lefdal in Sogn and Fjordane, Rennesøj in Rogaland, Vennesla, yes Svalbard, has all sent local politicians and launched campaigns to get storage to Norway. If there is a decision that we should not store elsewhere than in Norway, we must also call these local politicians and say that they can stop the campaign to invite jobs to the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e905	It's not like we're not going to store any data abroad. The government opens the door to save data abroad. What I'm asking is, how do you want to make sure, when that kind of storage happens, that information doesn't get the wrong way? Something else is that what we're talking about now is that our very sensitive personal data are not going to the rest of the world. This does not mean that we cannot store any other type of data in Norway. These are two different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e912	It is difficult to invite foreign companies and foreigners to come to Norway and store their data, while at the same time we have the principle that our data should not be stored abroad. I understand that it can be a principle – that’s okay – but if that principle gets a majority, you can no longer travel around from Norway and invite foreign companies. I would like to remind you that Facebook's initiative to store data in the municipality of Luleå can provide 4,500 jobs in northern Sweden. It is these initiatives that propose a principle that confirms data storage in Norway could destroy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e919	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e926	Although it's not that all the crime in Norway has moved from the physical space to the digital, it increases to an extent. We see it against the ICT systems themselves, but we also see it when it comes to sexual crime, ID theft, fraud, etc. Crime networks are becoming increasingly sophisticated in communication, and cyberattacks pose an increasing threat to individuals, businesses and the state. It will require a strengthening of the police, overall, to face these changes in the crime scene. Instead, I almost got the impression that the police districts are not going to run ICT crime. I don't think that's what the Council of State meant, but I could imagine challenging the Council of State a little bit to learn what he meant by that. Because even if we get bigger police districts and the county office structure changes, it will be entirely decisive that we are actively working on crime both against the Internet and on the Internet, and that we have increased competence and more around the country. So I could think about that a little bit more. There's been a lot of good work done by the police. We also know of several measures that have been put into action or that should at least have been. We've got several good examples from the Oslo Police Department, one of them. states that the network patrol to be established will require crew. Storage of information collected and seized is another challenge, as data volumes increase and storage capacity is too low. Both the police and the civil workforce with ICT competence are lacking throughout the country, and it will cost a lot of money in terms of professional development, training and further training. It is therefore essential, in the view of the Labour Party, to repeat what we have said in many debates in the last year, that we have to get a real strengthening of the police and police districts. We also suggest that the government should put forward a plan that makes the police work on ICT crime visible and how this should be financed. So the majority in the committee believes that there is a good deal to be done at a private national centre to prevent and fight against ICT crime, but we stress that the funds for such a centre cannot be taken from the police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e943	I get a little worried when I ask the Council of State how he wants to ensure that personal data stored abroad does not get lost, and he turns it over to the question that we do not get jobs in Norway, because that is not the case. The issue is that when it comes to outsourcing the storage and operation of sensitive personal data to the rest of the world, there is something the Centre Party is initially very sceptical about, but the government is nevertheless going in to do so. Then we believe that clear demands must be made when this is to happen. The Council of State could have been in favour of our proposal to require clearer rules on vulnerability assessments and on risk assessments for the outsourcing of data to the rest of the world. The representative, Melvær, said in his statement that the reason they are not on our proposal is that we are knocking open doors. Then I am a little surprised that the Council of State did not mention it in its reply to me. Ordering skills and clear guidelines before outsourcing services to the rest of the world that affect highly sensitive personal data are essential for people in Norway to feel secure that their information does not go astray. It's not just personal data alone. It is also about infrastructure and information relating to national security interests. Instead, I mentioned the Health South-East scandal because personal data got out of hand, but what also happened in the Health South-East scandal was that foreign IT workers were given access to an overview of our infrastructure, which in turn provides opportunities for sabotage and security threats against Norwegian interests. We've seen it in other things as well. We have seen that foreign IT workers have access to parts of our emergency network system. These are challenges that I think the Council of State should take seriously. I hope he can come back to the pulpit and give me a better answer on how the government will safeguard our security interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e952	This government believes it should be better to order. There is no doubt, in my view, that this has failed on several occasions. We haven't been good enough at this. We need to ensure that we have the competence to provide services and set the necessary requirements. To demand it is to open doors — something quite different is to establish a principle that all the storing of sensitive information is to take place in Norway. To a question that was raised: Of course, all police districts are going to take this seriously, but it's up to the districts to organise how to get the most out of this, because in many ways this is a very critical competence in the area of serious cybercrime. I agree that the police all over the country have to take over the new digital everyday life, and I understand that you're going to do that. I think it'll be as common to get digital police patrols online as it is to see patrols around the streets today. But this is a new crime work, where new methods have to be developed to be there. We're facing serious crime, which we need to have a high level of knowledge about, and we're talking about patrolling the web to capture things, both through prevention initiatives and by seeing what's going on among young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e961	It's, as the representative Enger Mehl from the Center Party called, revealed several serious episodes associated with information security lately. Both health South-East-saka and naudnetsaka look like horrible examples of that. For this reason, the Labour Party is opposed to ideologically driven outsourcing, and that one does not listen to professionals in its own act of alarming, and we are too clear a regulation. We therefore agree with the Centre Party and SV that a system that manages data related to national security interests should operate from Norway and that information should be stored in Norway. We agree that there must be clear requirements for risk and vulnerability assessments in the possible storage of data in other countries and that the government should have a case for reducing national vulnerability. Although we share the concerns about sensitive personal data on the wrong side, one of the options is that the Labour Party does not support this one proposal behind the Senterpartiet and SV. Sensitive personal data is currently managed by both public authorities, organisations, businesses and not least research. In our view, the proposal from the Centre Party and the SV is very broad, and the consequences, for example. in the case of research, it is unclear. What information it relates to, and who it will include, is not available, and on that basis it is not possible for us to support that very proposal. I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for participating in the formation of a plurality behind several of the good suggestions we have made in the Chamber today. Finally, I am pleased with the clarification from the Minister of Justice about the police districts, but it is at the heart of my criticism that we are now in a situation where the police districts are in a huge transformation and in a reform while the action space is very limited. Some police districts say there is no room for action. When it comes to the work on ICT competence, we are a little bit ‘on the heel’. In this area, there will be a need for many more debates in this room, both in terms of the training of police officers in the future and in terms of the need for further training and training. But it will also be decisive that one out in the district has both the capacity and the ability to carry out the important work within this field. Here, the Labour Party is going to be banging hard in its criticism right up until the government possibly puts forward a proposal that might be in line with the need out there in the police districts of Norway. In this area, unfortunately, I feel that we are getting quite little hearing, so this won't be the last time I've had this talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e974	There has been a lot of talk about the storage of data in a good way and the outsourcing of services. I would therefore like to make it clear that it is important to see the ICT notification in the context of the recently adopted Security Act, where careful evaluations have been made in the preparatory work on what should be taken into account, among others. security-graded acquisitions. The adopted law imposes requirements on security agreements, supplier clearance, alerting obligations, security-graded acquisitions, a number of agreements, etc., which must be in place in order for such acquisitions to take place. It is important to see this in the context of the message we are now discussing, in order to understand the whole and the criteria underlying it in order to ensure that things are done in a proper and safe way. I also mentioned earlier that innovation and technology development often occur in the cross-border meeting of companies, and we rely on trust-based national and international cooperation to develop tomorrow's technologies and solutions to the challenges we face. ICT security is important irrespective of whether data is stored in Norway or abroad. Things can also be stored in a better way abroad. My point is that we need safe ways to do this, regardless of where the data is stored, both for the sake of the security of our citizens and to be attractive when we want to be a host country for data centres and that type of activity. So it's important that we have secure ICT storage regardless of where it happens. It is also important that we do not look blindly at only the ICT message, but that we actually see it in the context of the Security Act and other relevant rules that we have adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e981	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e997	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1006	As rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation in this matter, which has led to a proposal that is close to all the representatives of the Committee. The Committee has agreed that the proposals on which the data protection of children has been addressed are important. It is desperation that privacy needs to be given a special focus in general at a time when very much information about each one of us is recorded and stored digitally. We share and share much information about ourselves through e.g. social media. The digital age allows us to renew, simplify and improve both in the public and private sectors. He increases value creation, productivity and innovation and helps us to provide services easily and efficiently. We get access to and can share information quickly, and we reach many with few keystrokes. In this context, it is also important that we experience the rapid digitisation that society is undergoing, as reliable and safe, and not least that vulnerable groups should be cared for. In particular, this applies to children and young people. The proposal for a new personal data law refers to children as a particularly vulnerable group that enjoys special protection. The reason for this is that children may be less aware of the current risks, consequences and guarantees and the rights they have when dealing with personal data. A large amount of personal data and data are recorded in children and young people during their childhood in kindergarten and school. Mainly, this information is important for providing children with a good and defenceful training provision and documenting their stand and development through kindergarten and school. It is important that the information stored is relevant, defended and that parents and escorts have knowledge of the content of the information recorded in the children. It is also important that they are aware of the right to determine which information should be passed on between kindergarten and school and between different schools. Good transitions between the various training providers should always be at the best of the child. This requires good and trusting cooperation between kindergartens and schools and their staff, and guidelines and laws regulating the obligation to enforce data protection laws are followed up. We also know that children and young people are particularly active users of different digital platforms. We know that these are are arenas that make the children extraordinarily delayed. Sharing of images and videos, bullying, marketing aimed at children and, in the worst case, criminal assaults in the digital space are increasing challenges that we have to address most seriously. Good information and knowledge, staggering work and clear laws are important to prevent children from being harmed. On the Jeløya platform, privacy is specifically mentioned, and the three government parties are some of them that a personal data protection commission should be set up to assess the position of privacy in Norway. We see this as an important measure, and the members of the Committee from the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre and the Labour Party have therefore seen it as natural that the Commission is given a clear mandate which includes a special task to assess the state of the privacy of children and to come back with measures to strengthen this. I am pleased to hear that the work on establishing a personal data protection commission is now in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1023	Privacy is an important freedom in liberal democracy. It is about the individual’s right to privacy and the right to determine his or her own personal data. Freedom includes, inter alia: anchored in the European Convention on Human Rights. Eight. The State has an independent responsibility to ensure the privacy of the individual. All persons shall have the possibility of a private sphere in which they can act freely, without coercion or interference by the State or by other persons. The issue we are dealing with today is about measures to protect the privacy of children and young people. The representatives of the Left supported on 16 November 2017 five proposals on how this can be done. In summary, the government is asking for the establishment of a Data Protection Commission for Children and Young People, for the prohibition of camera surveillance in schools and kindergartens when the children are there, for parents to consent before information about their children is transferred from kindergarten to school or between schools, for drawing up national guidelines on the registration and transfer of children’s personal data, and for children and their parents to be informed about the network and privacy. The Labour Party, like the other parties, believes that technological development requires a growing awareness of the digital rights of children and the right to privacy. We record that since the proposal was promoted by the deposit representatives from the Left, the Left has joined the government, and the creation of a Data Protection Commission has been written into the platform of the new government. We in the Workers' Party therefore believe that there is every reason to believe that the government will put such a commission down. So the question is whether there is a need for a separate commission for children and young people. We don't think so. That is why, together with the Right and the Advance Party, we have put forward a proposal asking that the notified data protection Commission also be given the task of assessing the privacy of children and young people and taking action to strengthen this. Nevertheless, we find reason to stress that we expect the work of setting down a data protection commission to start as soon as possible. As far as the proposal is concerned, I refer to the position where we make up the majority with the Right and the Advance Party. Finally, I would like to stress that there is very good information for children and young people and parents. It may be those who need it the most, and the information and information about the web and privacy. Many people also use this information in a good way. Nevertheless, the information on where to find the information itself may need to be kept not only in the claim, as required by the framework plan for kindergartens and the apprenticeship, but also intensifies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1036	It has been said very well both by the case rapporteur and by the representative of the Workers' Party, and there is no doubt that there is an overall committee that agrees that it is important to safeguard the privacy of children. Neither is anyone who can question Left's commitment to this, and I'm glad that the Jeloya platform is very clear and clear that the privacy of our children should be safeguarded. There are probably almost no children in the world who have as good access to technology as Norwegian children. They say Norwegian 9-year-olds are more familiar with smartphones and simple platforms than the other kids are. The new technology requires the protection of the privacy of children. We as parents also have a clear responsibility when we buy these devices for those where they can log on to different platforms. It shows the importance of ensuring the privacy of children. A year ago, we learned that there were docks for sale in toy shops that the children could talk to, and that could be used to track down where the children were, which in worst cases could lead to criminals getting hold of these children and committing criminal acts. Fortunately, these docks have now been removed from the market, but again: it shows how the new technology, which is a great opportunity, means that we have to be observant that we have to protect the privacy of the children. Here are many good suggestions that I support and that I am pleased to be able to get into the data protection commission that you are going to look at, but it is also important that information about the child is not abused. Many of us who have been in contact with the Change Factory, which consists of former child-restraints, know that many of the information they provide is best that parents are not told about. So the protection of the privacy of children must also be about ensuring that the information contributes to the care of the children and that they do not get on the wrong roads. I am pleased that this proposal has such a large majority in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1047	Technological developments are rapidly taking place in all parts of society, including at platforms and places where children and young people live. There is no doubt that there is a strong need to safeguard the privacy and digital rights of children, and the Central Party is very pleased that there is an overall committee dedicated to this. Children and young people are vulnerable to the collection and exposure of data of a private nature and the collection of data on the activity of children. Children are unable to consent and to a lesser extent than adults to deal with the scope of threats to their privacy and the importance of their own right to privacy. There is a need for increased political awareness of children and privacy and the boundaries between privacy and other considerations. The Central Party considers that there are good grounds for the proposal for a Data Protection Commission for children and young people and supported this proposal by 2016. The main argument of the government parties Right and Advance Party not to set up such a commission is that in any case a separate data protection commission should be set up which also covers other areas, as defined in the Jeleia platform. The Centre agrees that the privacy of children and young people can be part of a wider Commission and therefore expects such a Commission to be brought down rapidly. There is good reason why this Commission should consider a proposal to limit camera surveillance in school. General surveillance of children and young people without rules for the storage of admissions, as is currently the case in some schools, is a strong intervention in the everyday life and privacy of children and young people. It can be argued that monitoring can have a positive effect, for example: by acting preventively against bullying or mutilation, or by identifying to a limited or periodic extent the effects of various pedagogical measures. However, camera surveillance could have a negative impact on pupils’ behaviour and reduce their influence, and could be misused as a cheap and easy-to-use alternative to existing personnel who observe, fit and talk to the students. The centre party believes that there must be restrictive practice in the field of camera surveillance at school. We look forward to the setting up of a Data Protection Commission as soon as possible, and expect the government to include a special mission to assess measures to strengthen the privacy of children and young people in the mandate of this Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1060	Much wise has been said in this matter, and as everyone who has been on this pulpit before me has expressed, we are essentially in agreement on this. We agree that children need their own privacy focus, both to raise awareness of their own needs, and also to find possible regulations that allow us to control this in a good way. We may also need a separate Commission to look at privacy, where children and young people's own needs are viewed in particular. All of this we agree on, and everyone knows what challenges the new digital revolution is facing us. One of the tiny differences we have in this case is whether we're going to have our own commission for just children and young people, or whether these are to be included in a larger Commission work. It is interesting that the Left originally wanted a separate commission for only children and young people, but that this proposal has now disappeared in a way and has been integrated into a holistic thinking. It is likely that this happened in connection with the entry of the Left into the government. It has disappeared in a major handling of a separate Data Protection Commission. SV wants to resume the proposal from the left. In fact, we believe that there is a need for a separate commission for children and young people, and I can illustrate it. We have recently been presented with a proposition related to the Personal Data Act. There are 38 chapters – one is about children and youth, one out of 38. In no way is this made visible. If we now get a commission where the Stortinget informs us that we are going to include children and young people's needs in this commission, I'm very afraid that the special needs of children and young people will drown in the big privacy debate. I think we might need a separate commission for this to make it clear that children and young people have their own needs and that we are going to have a very separate debate on this. A Commission for the Privacy of Children and Young People, as originally proposed by the Left, we support. It will in a completely different way than including this in the big journey to a debate on children and the very special privacy needs of young people, and it will both make people aware and increase our awareness of this in a positive way. With that, I'm submitting SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1071	The representative Petter Eide has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1076	Society is undergoing rapid technological developments which have a major impact on children and young people. Therefore, there is a need to raise awareness of children’s digital rights and the right to privacy. Sometimes it's also about a private life for your own parents. New technology presents challenges to privacy that we need new policy responses to. Reassessments need to be made and new limits need to be withdrawn. The right to privacy is enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but it is constantly being challenged — and to an even greater extent as a result of digital developments. The ability to monitor children just seems to be increasing. Before that, the surveillance was limited to the public space and, in some cases, kindergartens and schools. Now monitoring is also done on the school road, at home and inside the children's room via various digital tools and toys. Children are equipped from an early age with GPS clocks that make it easy for parents to keep up with their children at all times and communicate with their children. It can be challenging enough in itself for privacy reasons. However, the Consumer Council has also revealed that strangers could easily take control of the clocks and use them to trace and intercept the child. Play and digital games are a natural part of your child's everyday life, and you can often communicate with strangers as part of your games and games. The possibility of sharing and disseminating images in social media also raises important issues — both the sharing of images by itself and, in particular, the sharing of images by others. Getting informed consent from the youngest children is challenging as it is difficult to predict the long-term consequences of consent. Social media is actively used by young people for a number of activities and is an important channel for effective communication. However, the opportunities for sharing images and videos pose considerable challenges for individuals and lower the threshold for criminal offences in the form of illegal sharing. I'm glad the government is going to look into whether the law is good enough. However, the Data Protection Commission can also look at other measures. A large amount of information is collected, stored and shared about children in schools and kindergartens. Good data protection and data processing practices are important in order to ensure that each child is taken into account. Monitoring takes place in particular in the transition between kindergarten and school, between primary and secondary schools and between primary and secondary schools. Information that goes between the different institutions can help teachers to be better equipped to receive new students and to provide them with a customised offer. At the same time, there is a danger that negative attitudes, incomplete assessments and, in the worst case, misappropriation will follow the child throughout his or her schooling. The left is critical of the comprehensive registration even if the purpose is good. Child care is usually provided through parental consent, but it is important that consent is informed. When consenting to the sharing of information, the information must first be taken into account. It is not always clear which data is recorded. I trust that kindergartens and schools will take these challenges seriously, but I also believe it is useful to get an assessment of this through the framework of the Data Protection Commission's investigation. The left originally proposed to set up a separate child’s data protection commission, but at Jeloea, however, we were given the opportunity to establish a larger data protection commission, and it is natural that children and young people’s privacy should be assessed in this context. I am therefore pleased that the Commission is now given a specific task to address the data protection challenges for children and young people. It is a very important breakthrough for the Left, and I am looking forward to the debate for which the Commission will provide a basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1095	Children and young people are a vulnerable group, with a particular need for strong privacy. Today, the privacy of children and young people is under pressure from several teams. Firstly, children and young people are a group that is itself very active users of new technology, where their own personal data form a central component. This has many positive aspects, but at the same time poses a risk to privacy. Secondly, children and young people are treated by a number of other actors, without the children themselves necessarily being aware of it and being able to control it themselves. This concerns everything from general authorities and commercial actors to kindergartens and schools — and even family members and friends. We need to meet the overall pressure against children and the privacy of young people in an appropriate way and with targeted measures. Five concrete proposals have been made in the proposal for a representative to strengthen the privacy of children and young people. With regard to my position on these proposals, I share the views of the former Minister of Justice and Defence, as expressed in his written reply to the Committee. In short, as follows: Proposal No. 1: I do not think it is appropriate to set up a dedicated data protection commission for children and young people, but to which I come back, I support the majority's proposal for a decision that children and young people's privacy should be included in the mandate of the Data Protection Commission to be established. Proposal No. 2: I believe there is reason to consider in more detail whether rules should be given that specifically regulate and prohibit camera surveillance in schools and kindergartens. In the last state council before Easter, the government promoted a proposition with proposals for a new personal data law. Priority has been given to keeping progress in the preparation of the proposal, so that the new Data Protection Act can enter into force at the same time or as close as possible to the entry into force of the Data Protection Regulation in the EU. Camera monitoring in schools and kindergartens has therefore not been specifically assessed in the proposition, but I will assess the follow-up to this theme in the time to come. Proposal No. 3: I can't see that at present there is a marked need for new special regulations on the provision of information to parents until they can consent to the transfer of information from kindergarten to school and between educational institutions. Proposal No. 4: I can’t see that today there is a marked need for new national guidelines for schools and kindergartens for the registration and transfer of personal data about children in kindergarten and students in school. I refer to the fact that there is already a significant amount of guidance material aimed at the training sector on the processing of personal data. Proposal No. 5: I believe that children and superiors in Norway today get very good information about network knowledge and privacy through a number of different public channels. Among other things, the Data Protection Authority, ICT Centres in Education and the Media Authority provide information on the privacy of children, young people and representatives. Digital judgment is also included in kindergartens and schools. With regard to the majority of the committee's proposal for a roll-out decision, I support this. It is stated in the Government Platform that a Data Protection Commission is to be established to assess the position of privacy in Norway. This is priority work, which I look forward to addressing. The proposal for a decision by the majority of the Committee is intended to include in the mandate of the forthcoming Data Protection Commission a specific task to assess the state of data protection for children and to return with measures to strengthen it. I believe that the privacy of the child should be part of the work of the Data Protection Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1114	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1120	When does the Council of State think that the notified Data Protection Commission should be put down?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1125	The Privacy Commission has not been put down yet, but it is a work that I am pleased to take on. I don't want to keep it fixed, but it's going to happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1130	In several areas, the needs of children and young people differ from those of adults. This applies naturally also when it comes to privacy issues. Several of the representatives have been involved in this in their speeches from the pulpit. How does the Council of State think that the perspective of children and young people should be made visible in a Data Protection Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1137	With the decision of Storting today, the government will of course follow it up. This is part of the things that are natural for us to include when we evaluate, write and propose a mandate to the new Commission. But we've noticed what the Storting says, and we'll follow it up, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1142	It's good to listen to the new Minister of Justice. He seems wise and has a good overview of the field after a few days. I think that's very nice. I would like to ask him about the relationship between the new Data Protection Commission and the proposition we have now received, the law on the processing of personal data. The size should deal with this law in this spring semester. After that, a Privacy Commission shall be set up. How does the Minister of Justice view the order in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1149	From the government's side, no order has been added to this. We are going to evaluate a data protection commission immediately, and we will of course include the signals also from Stortinget. But as I said, we have not taken a decision on whether to await the handling of the Data Protection Commission by the Storting. It could have been an advantage, but it's also a matter of time perspective for when we get the Commission going, which, after all, is going to take on a very large amount of work. It is always possible to have a commission that then assesses the debate Stortinget has had.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1154	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1172	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply be given to the members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1181	The majority today has a case to deal with to change the timing underlying the assessment of compensation for victims of violence and to give retroactive effect to the changes in the rules. There are a number of fundamental issues that relate to the possibility of obtaining compensation for the victims of violence in older situations. We also know that the law has been revised several times in recent years, but it has been done without any retroactive effect on the law. This question is often linked to the Kristin case. Kristin Juel Johannessen's parents were awarded compensation in law, but the compensation from the Victim Compensation Office was much lower than had been the case if it had been under current law. This is a problem that the Committee takes seriously. The Kristin case may well be an example of today's system of compensation for victims of violence being unfair to older cases. Let there be no doubt that this is a matter in which the Progress Party has a great commitment. There are good reasons why those concerned in the Kristin case should be given the possibility of compensation in the light of the new legislation. However, the proposal by the Workers' Party on compensation for victims of violence in older cases affects only a small group. As for this small group of former victims of violence, I think the underlying problem is much bigger. It should include all victims before 2011 who are entitled to compensation for victims of violence. It may be perceived at least as unreasonable to introduce retroactive rules that apply only to individuals. Since 2012, the Progress Party has been working to bring about a retroactive effect for all victims of violence who have been reinstated. It is important to know that today there are considerable differences in the amount of compensation for victims of violence paid. It depends on when an infringement has taken place. The Party of Progress has been a driver to ensure that the size of the compensation framework is equal to that of all victims of violence. The framework for how much compensation for victims is possible has been raised several times – as I was in the house. The consequences of getting compensation under new or old law are great for the victims. The compensation framework may vary from NOK 200000 according to the oldest law to SEK 5.6 million. kr after the law of the day. To be quite clear, in 2013, the Progress Party promoted the following proposals: «The Government immediately requests the Government to submit legislative proposals to amend the Act on the Compensation of Victims. The amendment should provide for all victims of violence up to 60 G in compensation, irrespective of when the offence occurred.’;» Fortunately, the Committee is grouped together with regard to retroactive effect. The Progress Party does not disagree with the proposal for a representative, but believes it is important that when making changes, it should be seen more broadly than that proposed. There are many different groups of former victims of violence in the same situation, and we must therefore ensure that there is a fair and predictable law. We are aware that the Department currently deals with NOU 2016: 9, Fair and predictable – compensation for violence damage. This sample recommends that the current limit of 60 G be passed but give retroactive effect to all who wish to apply for compensation for victims of violence after the entry into force of the new law. In this context, we believe that the Ministry should also consider whether cases that have already been decided in accordance with old legislation can be re-assessed in accordance with current replacement frameworks. I look forward to the work on the follow-up of the investigation, that it happens quickly, and that one comes back to Stortinget. I would encourage the government to look at the various victim groups in the context in order to get the most fair and predictable legislation possible. Much clearer, I can hardly give the government the recommendation to follow up this sample. On the basis of that, I take up the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party. I also warn that we support the proposals of the Christian People’s Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1201	The representative Solvency Horne has drawn up her proposal referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1206	This is an important matter with a very serious wallpaper. The representative proposal from the Labour Party is to fix an open hole in today's legislation. There is a family in Norway who have experienced that a readmission case has yet to be judged to the detriment of defendants after 17 years of struggle; they are known victims of violence by the law, but because of our law, which does not take height for that to happen, they do not get the money that the court has actually awarded them. The Storting does not deal with individual matters, but the Stortinget and we as magnificent representatives and populists should be able to change systems that are unimaginable, which no one has intended to be as they are. This is a matter where we should set people run systems, and so we have a principle approach to the matter. I thought that in this debate, one should not set up an electoral victim against another. I would say as Mr. Oslo Right's alternate, John Christian Elden, has expressed in social media in advance of the day when we were actually going to debate this matter, that none of us in the Justice Committee are aware of wanting to maintain injustice. If our representative proposal were accepted today, there would be no negative precedent, nor would there be any other case in Norway that has been reopened after a false acquittal sentence so many years after, where the tax and the loss have arisen until the new sentence. John Christian Elden, who, in addition to being at Stortinget, is also a lawyer, said on Facebook a few weeks ago that he thought well when Per-Kristian Foss and Ine Marie Eriksen took a proper hold on legal certainty, as he said, when they cleared up the tax charge against Tore Sandberg after he cleaned up Per Liland. Then the Fire showed to these two who said yes, it deviated from normal practice, but should there be corresponding, similar things in the future, where someone discovers a double murder of justice, it's all right. There is something of the essence of this matter as well. The government party, as well as Solvency Horne here instead, referred to older cases in its argument. But our proposal is not about older things like that. This is a strange matter, a resumption matter. There is one case in Norway with a readmission case with them to the detriment of the defendant. No, we can't know if there's more. We have to hope that it doesn't, but if it does, we also want them to be equal. I also see no contradiction between the Labour Party's proposal today and following up the NOU Just and predictable – compensation for violence in a good way. It would have been quite possible to do that, by voting for our proposal today and at the same time doing the important job that Solveig Horne did well. I register that, among other things: On the right, VG says that they're some of the politics in the matter, as I read it, but wants to look at it in a larger context. I want to say that it's positive that we're some people, that we're some people who say this is untimely, and that there's something Stortinget doesn't want. After some weeks' work on this matter, I now realize that the Labour Party's proposal today will not have multiples. Then it's important for me to stress that it's very good that the loose proposal that the Christian People's Party is making today seems to have multiples. We think it's not good enough, but at least it shows a direction where a greater commitment is to look at recapture matters in this context in the follow-up to that NOO. I want to say that's how we understand that proposal. I think it is important that if we now make such a decision, we send some signals, and then it is important that we can stand by them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1223	Victim compensation represents something we can be proud of as a justice politician in Norway. When we're traveling and talking to our colleagues in other countries, this is one of the arrangements we can really boast of and communicate to the rest of the world. The system has been up to discussion several times politically, and it has been changed several times politically. I think there is a broad consensus between all the parties in the Storting that in the future you want to maintain this scheme at a high level and perhaps extend the application to not only matters that come in the future, but also matters that should have been covered backwards in time. The proposal we are discussing today will have an impact on a single matter. I would like to stress very clearly that the government parties do not at all reject either the reasonableness or the need to do anything about this specific matter. At the same time, it is important to stress that we in Stortinget do not deal with individual matters. It's not our job to do that. The size cannot and should not guarantee e.g. a single administrative request shall be granted in a specific direction. Our job is to look at the system, the reasonableness of the law, and make sure that it is fair and makes the right decision. If you were to go in here and change little parts of a larger code, you're at risk. You're at risk of incoherence, fragmented rules that might give you bad results in the next round. That's why our solution is to have some ice in your stomach, lift your eyes, see the legislation in a larger whole and see if we can make a better regulation – not just for this specific case, but perhaps also for other groups who need it. I think we should take the time to do that. There is now an investigation by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The timing is very good to use this opportunity to look at the legislation in a larger context. So I want to say, at the very least, that lately there have been a lot of things in Stortinget that have their origins and their origins in individual things that have been mentioned in the media. It is important that when these matters are discussed and decided in the Storting, not quickly spin into falsehoods or angles that seduce people. We've had discussions, for example. establishing a ban on child marriage in Norway. It was a day when the whole Stortinget agreed that this should be totally banned in Norway. The angle was unfortunately that the Stortinget voted no to ban child marriage, and thus many hundreds of thousands of Northmen left with the impression that we had voted it down. We had a discussion about nude pictures and how to turn it down, through legislation. The whole Stortinget agreed that we should get new rules for this. But the angle was once again that we voted against a proposal that would make it criminal to share nude images – a very unfortunate result when the truth is that we agree, across political parties. I therefore hope that in this case you are left with the impression that the Storting actually takes the issue seriously. The majority does not vote against compensation for violence in the specific matter we are talking about, the leaven of Kristin Jensen, but you want to do this in a proper way, with a reasonable procedure that gives us time to think. I think we're going to end up with a code that makes sense, that's reasonable, and that might help even more people than just those left behind in the Kristin case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1236	The issue we are dealing with today is important – and very important for them. I would therefore like to start by thanking the proposers for their support for the draft representative. The Christian People's Party is in principle fully in agreement with the proposers. When we discover that the system has unfair consequences, we have to change the system. It's one of our most important tasks as legislators. While correcting unintended consequences, we need to ensure that we see the challenges in context. It is important to ensure that cases are not left out when we change the legislation. The Christian People's Party believes that the law needs to be amended, so that the time when one has the right to compensation for violence changes from time of action to time of judgment, but we also believe that the government should consider whether other cases should be included in the scheme. That is why the Christian People's Party has promoted a loose proposal in the matter today, where we ask the government in connection with the follow-up of NOU 2016: 9 ensure that the compensation scheme includes victims of violence from older cases and resumption cases. The Christian People's Party is not opposed to the proposal from the proposers – but we are in order to take it in a larger context. I am pleased that an overall committee has said the following – I would quote from the vote: ‘The fact that a judgment has been delivered after examination by the Resumption Commission to the detriment of the accused has, as the Committee is aware, only taken place in one case. In the Kristin case, Kristin Juel Johannessen's parents were awarded compensation in law, but the compensation from the Victim Compensation Office was much lower than what would have been the case under current law. This is an important issue that the Committee takes seriously.» We in the Christian People's Party agree on this – in addition to that we believe that there is a need to assess whether more cases should be included in the scheme. The proposals we are voting for today do not exclude the content of the Workers' Party's proposal, but this means that more people should be included – including those involved in the Kristin case. It's important for us to clarify. The Christian People's Party will therefore vote in favour of its own loose proposal, which is distributed today, and proposal No. 1 in the position in the case to ensure that both the persons concerned in the Kristin case and others are entitled to compensation for the victims of violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1252	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1257	I note that the majority of the Committee insists that there should be a time of judgment on which the assessment of victims of violence in criminal proceedings is to be reviewed and that the amendment should be applied retroactively. There's reason to reflect on it. Firstly, I would like to stress that there is no requirement that there be a judgment in a case to offend or leave a victim of violence from the state. In very many of the cases dealt with by the Office for the Compensation of Victims, there is no judgment. What is important is that insulted and left behind after criminal acts that have an unknown perpetrator, are entitled to compensation for victims of violence in the same way as insulted and abandoned in cases where the perpetrator is convicted of the relationship. When the perpetrator is convicted of paying compensation to the victim, the Office for Victim Compensation will be based on the calculations of compensation made by the court. In the absence of a judgment, the Office for Victim Compensation itself calculates the amount of compensation and makes the same assessment of the claim as the courts would have done. In other words, the amount of compensation shall be approximated irrespective of whether it is the court or the Victim Compensation Office dealing with the case. In both cases, the compensation payment will be curtailed if it is higher than what can be paid in compensation for victims of violence. The maximum amount that can be paid has, as you know, changed several times. The ceiling has previously been 100000 kroner, 150000 kroner, 200000 kroner, 20 times the basic amount of the population's money and 40 times the basic amount. For actions that took place between 1984 and July 2001, the maximum amount is NOK 200000. In this period, when the ceiling was between NOK 100000 and NOK 200000, there were of course enough people who were able to shorten their replacement because they reached the maximum amount. All laws and amendments to the law must have an intersection time. In the case of victims of violence, it is the time at which action is taken and how much the state pays. This could, of course, give tangible results that could seem unreasonable. In this regard, I would like to elaborate on the fact that, although it seems reasonable to leave the time of judgment in resumption cases, it may nevertheless create injustices against others. Unfortunately, the department's letter of reply to the committee does not just mention a designed example. In the last 20 years, several children have been killed in Norway, and the nucleus is the same: the survivors are left behind who have lost the inalienable, their own child. The Committee refers the matter to the survivors of Kristin Juel Johannessen, who was killed in 1999, only twelve years old. The perpetrator was released by Agder Lawyers in 2003, but was convicted of the murder when the case was reopened in 2016 in the light of new evidence and technological developments. The civil society court then sentenced the perpetrator to pay more than 4.5 million. NOK in compensation for the survivors. In 2000, two little girls were killed in Baneheia, Kristiansand. Two people were convicted of the killings, one of whom has previously tried to get their case resumed. In 1988 a child disappeared without a trace from the Drammen Mountain, only nine years old. Thomas Quick admitted, and was convicted in Sweden for killing this young girl, but he later withdrew the confession and is now acquitted. The matter has still not been resolved. Looking at these and other similar, cruel stories, my clear view is that there must be very good reasons for the survivors to be treated differently. It cannot be a decisive factor in what the survivors can get in compensation for the victims, when a judgment falls, if the case at all ends up in judgment. It is this that, in my view, makes a change unreasonable in line with the proposal for a representative. We can't have a system where the survivors of the murder cases that are being solved get more in compensation for the victims than the survivors in cases that are not solved. I can only assume that losing a child must be the most cruel thing that can happen to a human being. Never get answers to who and how many will make the load even bigger. Should the survivors who are left without a reply be left with less compensation – what is the justice of that? As stated in the letter to the Committee, we believe that a change to give the ceiling retroactive effect must apply to all cases of compensation for victims of violence. But this too is a fundamental question, and it will represent, as the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party point out, a not insignificant cost question, which implies that the proposal must at least be subject to a thorough investigation. I would therefore advise against amending the law in line with the committee's recommendation. I think it is most appropriate to see this in the context of the follow-up of NOU 2016: 9, just and predictable – compensation for violence, and the government wants to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1282	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1287	There was an article that distinguished itself from the articles that were used here. What the Council of State says here is essentially the same as the previous Council of State in reply to the Committee. But the movement that has been involved, and what has emerged here today – that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Great Britain will vote for that proposal by the Christian People's Party that clearly commits – is in stark contrast to what the Council of State just said. So then I have to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State think that what we're going to get more today is wrong? Or does the Council of State mean anything else? We need clarity on that, because it seems that the Storting is going to adopt today, at least, the proposal of the Christian People's Party that obliges us to follow up this matter in connection with this NOU. We need a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1295	What I'm warning you to do is take a decision on that time now. The proposal that seems to have a majority is a desire to look further back in time. It is a proposal – and we would also like to see a directive – that we will of course follow up on. But the important thing here is that we see this in context, and that we take all of those cases into account. The important thing is that things are not treated differently, but it is also important that things are not left out. So, assuming we're going to look further in time, when we're going to evaluate NOW 2016: 9, I think it's a proposal that gives a clear signal. We have to take that signal with us, and we're going to follow it up. What I want to warn you about is that we are now setting a time for the verdict instead of the trial.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1308	There is no answer that provides security, to put it cautiously. But we have had this matter in the process for a while now, and the representatives of the Progress Party have met with them on this matter, both said and promised that this will be settled, and that the promises will be changed. Such signals and such words mean a lot. Then my question is to the Council of State: doesn't the Council of State mean it? Is the Council of State inconsistent, or can it be certain that this will be followed up in connection with the NOU – where it is absolutely central, what is in our proposal, when it concerns the time of judgment? It was also underlined by the Christian People's Party instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1315	As I said in my post, I believe it is important that if you want a change to give the ceiling retroactive effect, it should apply to all cases of compensation for victims of violence – not limited to those who have a different time of judgment. So that's how – the representative asks, and I want to say of course – that if the Storting decides something, I will of course follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1322	I feel that this whole matter is misunderstood by the Department and the Council of State, and has actually become the whole thing. We're talking about things that are taken up again, where one has received a judgment that is not in favour of the defendant. There is only one such matter in Norway. Does the Council of State know of other such matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1327	As I said in my post, I do not know such things. But there are corresponding parallels where it's important to distinguish between time of judgment and time of action, also because time of judgment sets a requirement that we don't normally assume, that it always has to be judgment. So there are possibilities for paying compensation for victims of violence, and that also happens in cases where there is no judgment. The important thing here is that we see the whole thing of this. We're going to deal with the NOU, it's for treatment in the department. Then we're going to look at who's going to get compensation for the victims, we're going to look at the geographical extent of what we're going to look at, we're going to look at the amounts, but we're also going to look at the timing of the financial limits. The important thing here is that we make a system where we don't treat what should be similar cases, unlike.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1334	Replicate cord shift complete. The speakers who are given the floor now have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1341	Victim compensation is an important and necessary system that we offer victims of serious crime and their relatives. The system has cross-political excitement, and we all want this opportunity for those who have wounds that do not grow. The proposal we are discussing today is coming at a good time. As has been explained earlier here, there is an investigation in progress in the department. Now we have the opportunity to influence it. Nevertheless, in the government parties, we believe that the proposal from the Labour Party is a little too concrete. We absolutely want the government to look at today's law, but we want an overall review, where all things are evaluated in general, not just on the basis of one single thing. We believe that this is the most neat way to deal with the matter, because the Storting should not deal with individual matters. Our job is to provide a good and fair regulation, and that is the order we want to send to the government today. If we just go in for one single thing, we're at risk of creating new injustices. It is good that the Workers' Party has put a search light on the compensation system. Now it's up to the government to look at the whole thing, so that we can secure a good and fair regulation for absolutely everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1352	This is an important matter for us, and I know that this is an important matter for the whole committee. Then it's important that we do what we can to get the best result. The Christian People's Party has made a loose proposal, which the Right and the Advance Party have warned that they will vote in favour. The Labour Party will also vote for it. That means that the whole Biggest is going to vote for that proposal, which is mandatory in the follow-up to the NOU. I'm glad, because I was upset when I heard the message from the Minister of Justice. A few days ago I both hoped and believed that the new Minister of Justice would look at this matter with new eyes. It doesn't look like that. But it's now time for the Storting to decide, and the Minister of Justice is right: he and the government have to follow up the decisions we make. So I'll comment on the post from Peter Frølich. Because it's clear that when you get very busy with your health -- and there's a lot of us that are often -- and that there's going to be some incoherence in the systems, we should probably ask ourselves what kind of incoherence it gets for those who connect the systems. Are we willing to see that these are the ones that we're all aware of that the system is unparalleled, which is supposed to wait for the systems to become part of themselves, or that the politicians are always going to see everything under one? We don't always have to. That's also why I write in the comments something that I feel I almost rarely do, where I think that someone has trouble understanding the matter. We're mixing resumption cases – a very peculiar, unique case in Norway – with all other things. That wouldn't be necessary. But I think that's the way it is. And I am very happy that we are gathering about the proposal that the Christian People's Party is making today, so that we can give a clear message at least from the Stortinget – and that is necessary, it seems –. I do not want to spend so much time with the opposition that the Frølich and government parties are not happy with the opposition. It's their full right to be that. But if you think it's annoying that too many proposals are voted into the Storting, there's one way to do something about it, and that's to consider starting to vote for a little bit more. I hope the follow-up will be good. I hope and expect that the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party in the Judicial Committee will follow closely when she is to be followed up, because I must say that I am surprised at the contribution of the Council of State today, which compares this matter with other dire matters in Norway, which I do not think can be compared either. I'd like to read the proposal again, if there's time for it. But the decision is getting any better than it seemed to be. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1365	I really see the matter as very well illuminated and thoroughly and well debated in the hall now, so I shouldn't say so much more about it. On the other hand, I would like to make a complaint. I stood on the platform here and referred to Kristin Juel Johannessen as Kristin Jensen. It wasn't meant to be, it's what happens in an engaged moment from the pulpit. I still want to fix it and regret that the fault happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1372	No more people have asked for the floor. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1388	The President will suggest that the speaking time is limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five series of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1397	History has shown us that there are hardly any limits to how terrible abuses states – even with democratically elected leaders – can make against individuals or groups. This is the background for the creation of the Council of Europe and the framework for the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights, also known as the EMC and the EMD. After terrible years of world war, European leaders and politicians saw the importance of setting limits on what state powers could do to individuals. We got a joint binding legal code that would protect each one of us. We who come after should protect about these dishes. Developments in Europe with increasing nationalism and extremism give serious cause for concern. In many countries, human rights and supranational institutions such as the EMD, established to protect individuals — young as old, poor as rich, each one of us — are challenged. For this reason, it is more important than for a long time for us, regardless of the political party, to end up with human rights and human rights institutions. The Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe has drawn up a proposal for a political declaration, the so-called Copenhagen declaration. One of the objectives is for the EMD to interfere to a lesser extent with the decisions of the state. At the same time, the Danish think that one should so-called develop the interference of the political authorities with the court. These proposals and developments are going in the wrong direction, and Norway must protest. It brings us to the basis of today's debate. For the government has not taken up any protests. Some of the proposals in the Copenhagen Declaration, and more specifically the proposal for Article 26, gave serious cause for concern. The proposal shall now be subject to strong opposition from several countries and organisations, but not from Norway. The Norwegian Government did not seem to have any problems with the Danish proposal. This has created an uncertainty as to whether we have a government that also thought that human rights are a bit of a concern. So we can't accept that. Because even though the most controversial proposals in the Copenhagen Declaration are now to be scrapped, it turns out that there are forces in Europe that want a less sensitive court, less interference, less protection of people, less human rights. Human rights are not created for the good weather. On the contrary, when human rights are under pressure, there is a real need for politicians who are clear and who protect the minimum standards of the different nation states to protect each one of us. We in this Chamber must be such politicians. We must stand up to the minimum standards that European politicians considered important after the war. There's just as much to be needed today. That is also the background to the proposal that the Labour Party is making today. I think the government has created uncertainty as to whether they will stand up for the EMD and human rights, or whether they will follow the Danish now and in the future. I hope that a mass accumulation will end up with the Labour Party proposal and thus show clearly that we are politicians who stand up for people and for human rights even when it's storming, regardless of party attendance. It will also remove the uncertainty of the government through its lack of criticism of the proposals made in the Copenhagen Declaration. The European Court of Human Rights is not perfect. There is a need for reform, and we end up with the work being done to reform the Court. The EMD drowns in cases, and there's some criticism of the type of cases and decisions, and that some of the cases are getting too far. This must be discussed, and it must be resolved. The Council of Europe and the Court of Justice are at work. Reform work in the last decade has reduced the number of cases, although for some reason there is no target. That work must continue. That being said, we in the Labour Party can never accept that the reform process is being used as an opportunity to weaken the EMK and the rights of each of us through the Convention. Our desire for reform comes from a desire for a stronger and more effective protection of human rights, not the opposite. I take up the proposal from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1418	The representative of Lene Vågslid has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1423	This is mildly said a slightly special matter. The proposal we are examining now is a draft declaration to be discussed at a Minister of Justice meeting which starts on Thursday in Copenhagen. Since Norway has not commented on the draft part on asylum and immigration, etc., the proposers interpret it as if Norway were behind it. At least that's how I see the proposers. Firstly, it is not automatic that Norway wholeheartedly supports a draft convention text simply because it has not entered and comments on each part of it. I think this proposal is based on a rather doubtful premise. Secondly, this is an ongoing negotiation process and, in accordance with the general principles of State law, it is up to the government to participate and govern its participation in such negotiations. We at Stortinget would like to think a lot about Norwegian foreign policy, but we should not go to the step of instructing the government in how they should deal with negotiations with other states. In that case, it will represent a practice that we need very far back in time to find examples of. The Basic Law system is based on the fact that the Storting first comes into ratification. It will be very special if we go in and decide on a multilateral agreement that has not even been adopted. For a number of issues, good systems have been put in place at Stortinget, both in terms of information and the ability to provide feedback and influence these issues, through the extended Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee. That's a neat way to do it, but it might not give you the big media releases. I have no great hope that the proposers will see the constitutional problems of this procedure. On the other hand, I have some hopes relating to a traditionally responsible Workers' Party, which was at least once referred to as a state carrier, that they know the system set up by the Constitution in matters like this, and that in this case they will refrain from instructing the government in an ongoing negotiation process. In the end, there has been information that this draft has changed, so the debate is really the most theoretical interest, it seems. I must nevertheless say that I think it is a little special that we have this debate initially. I think maybe this is a matter which, first of all, would have been served by comitology and better information about the facts of the matter, and that it might not have as much urgency as you say. I believe, in any case – and this is what it looks like now – that the Storting agrees that we are following the usual constitutional rules and giving the government the opportunity to fulfil the task that the Constitution actually confers on it, namely to stand for the kind of negotiations and treaties that this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1438	This case is not about being in favour of or against human rights; I assume that everyone in this room is occupied with. But I want to make a statement of vote from the Center Party. We are going to vote against the SV's draft representative and the Labour Party's proposal on this issue, but we recommend that the government vote against Article 26 of the Copenhagen Declaration. We base our vote against the proposals in the Chamber today on the principle of state law, on the basis of what is the distribution of roles between the government and the extraterritorial services on the one hand and the Storting on the other. This means that the Center Party does not find it right to instruct the government in such a matter. It's also problematic that it's being added up to urgent treatment, as we see it. Neither the parties nor any committee have been able to assess the matter. It is particularly unfortunate in a matter which concerns something which is the prerogative of the government, that is to say the government's responsibility, which is international negotiations and the extra-territorial services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1443	I am, among other things, the proposer in this matter. I've been looking forward to this debate and of course it's a little sad that Peter Frølich from the Right here only discusses the constitutional aspects of it, and at all events does not discuss the content of the matter. We have insisted on this because the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe has proposed a declaration aimed at limiting the European Court of Human Rights as a review mechanism. In particular, the Danes believe that the Court should be less involved in the asylum cases of the countries, and the Norwegian Government has quietly supported this. No matter how this is interpreted, you have not commented on this article, everyone else interprets it so that Norway has then supported this controversial proposal by the Danes. A number of chronicles have been written about this, in line with what I am now saying, and also the international actors with whom I have been in contact have interpreted it so that Norway has supported this proposal. That the government now, after they have encountered great resistance, says that they have not supported the proposal, they get their coat on. I'm interpreting it so that they're now trying to turn away. I find it a little difficult to understand that the Left in the government has also been able to support this. They're usually a party that's very concerned with human rights. Nor do I fully understand why the Right has been involved in supporting this – they are concerned with both national and international legal systems. Indeed, the European Court of Human Rights is a kind of basic law for Norway in the area of democracy and rights. Through the Court of Justice, Norwegian citizens are also guaranteed a fundamental right to try their cases. But the Norwegian position is not just about Norway. If the Danish and Norwegian proposals had been successful, they would help to weaken the protection of human rights for 700 million Europeans. This is so serious and so general that it cannot just be left to a Minister of Justice. It concerns the whole system of Conventions, our relationship with the Council of Europe and the Convention – of course, the Storting must tell us how they want this to be. That is why we have had an urgent procedure on the matter, in order to give a clear message to the dealers who are going to Copenhagen in two days' time. It is important to see this in the context of development in Europe. In a number of countries, nationalistic and, in part, undemocratic forces are gaining ground. Just look at the elections in Hungary a few days ago, how so-called ‘ethnonationalism’ wins — a demand that Hungary should only be for ethnic Hungarians, everyone else out. In view of this development in many countries, both the Swedish and Finnish governments, the Council of Europe’s management through the Council of Europe Standing Committee and a number of organisations have considered that this declaration, with the support of Norway, is the opposite of what Europe needs right now. We do not need a European policy that weakens the importance of democracy, human rights and international commitments; we need the opposite. The declaration and the Danish and Norwegian positions have therefore met with so much resistance that yesterday we received a new proposal for a declaration removing the specific article to limit the area of asylum. Then perhaps the matter could have been over – it might have been over. Fortunately, Norway has lost these negotiations, Norway has lost its position. Then perhaps the matter could have been over. Nevertheless, there are still negotiations on this declaration and they start in two days. We do not know which negotiating mandate has been given to the Norwegian negotiators, although the new proposal does not contain a draft which would reduce the legal certainty or human rights of a particular group. It is unclear what kind of mandate the Nordics have when they go to the negotiating meeting of the Council of Europe in Copenhagen in two days. Should they continue to take the view that the Court should not engage in asylum cases? Are they still going to try to work for it, as they originally did? Or are they going to stick to what the majority is now submitting? Therefore, it is important that Stortinget deals with this matter and gives a clear message. The original SV proposal has been withdrawn because the case was different yesterday. That is why we have agreed with the Labour Party to support their new text.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1462	The representative Frölich talked about that this matter now almost has a theoretical interest, but we may need some theory sometimes, especially constitutional theory and perhaps legal theory as well. The present proposal for a representative is, as it states, ‘to prevent the undermining of the European Court of Human Rights’. I'm assuming there's unison agreement in this room. Since the Court was established well over 50 years ago, it has gradually become an important element of our rule of law. To weaken its authority will really be to shoot ourselves in the foot. But it's worse than that. Undermining the Court of Justice in one field, in this case the field of asylum and immigration, could without a doubt help to pave the way for the interests of other countries to address the field of EMD's work. There are enough Member States in the Council of Europe who would like to go a few new rounds in the area of freedom of expression and the press, thus helping to reverse the clock. The margin of discretion of the EMD, i.e. the ability to limit the freedom of each nation to interpret the EMK, and the issue of the EMD, is important precisely because the Convention on Human Rights is a dynamic and moving organism. What's within the margin of discretion today doesn't have to be tomorrow. For such reasons too, the Left is opposed to the content of Article 26 of the so-called Copenhagen Declaration. To Petter Eide, who allows himself a special form of history here, I would like to say "read my lip". The left is against Article 26. We record that the proposers believe that the government has not been clear enough on this issue. But then it's not like in the world of politics that the one who's silent agrees. There is no reason to believe that the government will join Article 26, and should that happen, it will then happen contrary to what I, and more with me, perceive as the majority in this Chamber. That being said, this is a matter which, at this stage in the context of an international declaration, does not belong in the Grand Duchy. It is the government's prerogative to negotiate in this matter. It is also the government's duty and duty, if any, to bring such a case into the Grand Duchy if it violates its intentions in declarations made by the nation. Although we fully share SV's basic views on this matter, the Left will therefore not vote in favour of SV's proposal, which I now understand is drawn. For the same reason, we will not vote in favour of resolving the Workers' Party's proposal, even if it goes as far as SV's proposal is concerned. Let's say that the opposition makes it a trait to run big business in order to get its policy through, but in this case both the SV and the Workers' Party have crossed a line. This is not the way Norway is doing international work and international negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1477	The original proposal for a representative is a political declaration negotiated by the Council of Europe, to be adopted at the Minister of Justice meeting, which starts on Thursday in Copenhagen. Norway has participated in the negotiations on the content of the declaration, and we have published our first input to them. The representatives who originally tabled the proposal ask the government to negotiate to remove Article 26 of the first draft declaration. The article dealt with the European Court of Human Rights in the field of asylum and immigration. The proposal refers to the fact that the government has failed to comment on this article, and that this is interpreted internationally as if Norway were behind the provision as it has been formulated. Here there is reason to be aware that my predecessor, then Minister of Justice and Defence Per Sandberg, before Easter received a question about just this part of the statement from the representative Petter Eide. In the written reply that was sent to Stortinget it. 5 April, I have explained the vision of the current Article 26 of the first draft. The answer refers to the fact that Norway does not consider it natural to highlight a specific field of action in such a general statement and that the proposed wording may give the impression that there is going to be a different approach to the discretionary margin of countries in testing cases of asylum and immigration than elsewhere. In view of this, Norway did not propose to maintain its wording. This last point I would like to repeat and underline here today: there is no basis for interpreting the absence of Norway’s comments as an active support for the formulations. The points we felt were particularly important in the first draft, we explicitly supported. Article 26 of the first draft has received considerable international attention, and objections from many teams have been raised. On the Danish side, great emphasis was placed on the fact that the further negotiations would be confidential, so I would generally not have the opportunity to give details on how it has developed. However, I believe that it cannot do much harm to confirm that the text of Article 26 of the original draft declaration is no longer included in the draft declaration available for adoption in Copenhagen this week. I also consider it unlikely that there will be proposals at the conference to re-enter this text, and we will not propose it. I would also like to add that the government has not in any way intended to undermine the EMD, as the title of the representative proposal can give the impression. In our first recording, we took the opposite view, among other things. removing a formulation that constitutional rights should be interpreted in the light of constitutional traditions and local circumstances in the Member States. Finally, I would like to briefly say something about the process: As I said, we have provided transparency in the Norwegian position to the extent that it has been possible. However, it is not common for governments at the negotiating stage to consult and inform the Storting about these kinds of political declarations. The Norwegian negotiating positions have been within the government’s adopted policy. The content of the first draft declaration has been made public. Civil society has taken the opportunity to make its views known. Biggest representatives have committed themselves. On the other hand, questions have been asked that have been answered in writing by the Councils of State, Listhaug and Sandberg. On the one hand, on 16 March the Head of the Delegation of the Storting to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr Ingerd Schou, took part in a meeting of the Permanent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly, which ended with a critical opinion on the first draft declaration. In other words, the matter has been dealt with within the democratic framework in question. I still believe that this is a general question that the government normally has to deal with. That does not mean that I believe that the content of the proposal itself is problematic, but it would be strange to break a tradition towards the Storting in this way, without comitology.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1494	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1499	The Labour Party proposal, which is at issue, does not in any way instruct on the level of detail, and I would say that our proposal is in fact quite in line with both the article from the Council of State we heard now, and several others. We also claim nothing at all in this matter. We only record that there has been a great deal of uncertainty in that Norway did not object to this article. We've spent decades building up human rights, and they can be demolished pretty quickly. I mean this is a healthy reaction from the game on Stortinget. The question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State agree that it is important that human rights and the European Court of Human Rights should not be weakened, and does the government want to work actively against such a weakening?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1507	I am among those who believe that the European Court of Human Rights has an important role to play. I believe that in terms of the basic problems it is set to deal with, it is important not to weaken it. The government will not take any initiative to weaken the court. This does not mean that there will be no need to have a debate along different lines on how the court works, but it is not relevant to weaken what is the very idea and the core of the court.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1512	I thank you for your answer. That was a good answer. Would the Council say anything about why Norway chose not to object to the article, since so many other countries reacted?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1519	At that time we knew that the negotiations would continue. It wasn't that one chance went away from us at that moment. We chose to comment on some areas that we saw as significant attempts to weaken the court. There were statements coming from other countries to interpret them in the light of their tradition, which can be seen in many ways as letting some countries escape cheaper. This was not the case with the Danish asylum policy, it was other areas that we thought were more important in that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1524	We need to dwell little on the uncertainty as to whether Norway has supported Article 26 – which has now been properly removed, but still – or not. Several other countries which have opposed Article 26, an article about removing the impact of the Court on asylum cases, have explicitly written it in their proposals. When Norway delivered its input to this declaration in February of this year, there was no comment at all about this. I assume that the government expected different interpretations of what the Norwegian government meant. My question is again: if the government does not support Article 26, why was it not explicitly expressed and written?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1529	The Norwegian recording of the first draft declaration was designed when Sylvi Listhaug was the Council of State. I can't go into the details of the assessments at that time. But in the Norwegian recordings, we chose to focus on some issues. It cannot be interpreted as agreement on all that is uncommented. When we commented on the first draft, we knew that the negotiations would continue. That means that we had a lot of different ways of getting back with what we wanted during a process. This is often the case in negotiations, and it is important to take into account that the starting point for such negotiations is that they should be confidential. This does not mean that Norway and the Ministry of Justice had in any way intended to go beyond what is government policy, but this was part of a negotiating position where we signaled certain things that we thought it was important to react to in the first draft. So we knew there would be more drafts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1534	I have to repeat that I think this is unclear. The Minister of Justice is very well aware of how international negotiations work, and when Norway fails to comment on a very specific matter, it is interpreted by other countries in a certain way. It is clear that by failing to comment on Article 26, Norway has wanted to give a signal that they think this article is okay and that Norway has wanted to support Denmark. It's very hard to understand this in any other way. I now perceive that the government is trying to get in. They have experienced great resistance when they have supported the reduction of the authority of the Court of Justice in the field of asylum, and they are now trying to rewrite history in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1539	I would like to repeat: you cannot interpret the absence of comments as if we were supporting them. This was a first draft, and we knew there would be many drafts. The representative Eide's criticism could be in place if we had come to the end of the negotiations and there was a final statement. Then this could have been an interesting question. However, the ongoing evaluation of all the positions under negotiation, where different assessments of what should be prioritised in the first, second and third drafts, is to go too far. This was in a confidential negotiating position, and it is not natural to rule on the government's positions until the final drafts are official and available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1544	The Minister of Justice now says that not commenting on this article cannot be interpreted as having supported it. But where the Minister of Justice is fundamentally wrong, it has been interpreted this way. Whatever the Minister of Justice says, it has been interpreted in such a way that Norway supports Article 26. This has been interpreted by several other countries, it has been interpreted by a number of organisations in Europe, and it has also been interpreted by the Council of Europe Standing Committee. The Minister of Justice now says it hasn't been interpreted that way, and it's possible it can't be interpreted this way from the sender, the Ministry of Justice, but recipients in the international community have interpreted it this way. In a number of chronicles about this in the Norwegian public we also see that it has been interpreted this way. So here the Minister of Justice is wrong. It's been interpreted like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1549	I can just express how we interpret it. We say that it should not be seen as a support for anything. Of course, I cannot approve of how others want to interpret what we are saying, but I repeat again: this cannot be interpreted as a support for Article 26. It is therefore true that we expressed our position in principle, namely that it was not natural to bring forward one area, asylum policy, in what could be a debate on the future of the European Commission and the Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1556	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1563	This matter does not take place in a vacuum, it takes place during a period when asylum and refugee policy has been the hottest and most difficult area of human rights. There are many human rights under pressure, including in many European countries. But when these negotiations have taken place, this topic has been up and Norway has chosen not to say anything, and when it is also known that it will give rise to the conclusion that Norway agrees, I have to say that I am quite surprised by what the government now says, but also by what the Right and other representatives here say. The Storting has set up a national human rights institution to help us maintain human rights and to deal properly with them. The head of this institution and one of the leading lawyers who wrote a chronicle in the Evening Post saying that the government must clarify its view: ‘If the Member States of the Council of Europe were to adopt a declaration that States could have a political influence on the case-law of the Court of Justice, it would undermine the independence of the Court of Justice.’ It's very serious. This has been written publicly in Norway, and the leader of this institution has been Norway's ambassador to the Council of Europe to these institutions. So it's not anyone who has sat and interpreted this – that's how it's interpreted. I have been in these asylum debates with this government in this period, and I have no doubt that this government has wanted to weaken human rights in this area. It has been clearly stated, and the bulk of the population has even given the government a certain opportunity to do so through the asylum agreement. It hasn't been followed up, so there's reason to be concerned when this happens. So this doesn't happen in a vacuum, and it's the government's responsibility to inform and consult the Storting if there's such big changes going on. The functioning of the European Court of Human Rights, the responsibilities of the nations and the powers and opportunities of the Court of Justice are not a matter for a government to interpret freely. It is an area that needs to be discussed openly, publicly and with full honesty throughout the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1580	Thank you so much for giving the President another little round of this. The constitutional problem has been addressed in the hall. I have no doubt that the government has been confident in how they have handled this constitutionally. I do not doubt that they have checked with the Law Department and others whether they can conduct these negotiations, as they have done. I also do not accuse the government of breaking constitutional practices, I ask more whether it has been politically wise to negotiate something as fundamental as our relationship with the international Convention systems around human rights without consulting the Stortinget in advance and without consulting Norwegian trade unions about this and, in addition, relatively strikingly, conduct these negotiations in a quiet manner. Has it been political fraud? I think it is very clear that in a question of such a degree of seriousness one should take the views of the Stortinget. It is the Grand Duchy that is to govern and direct what kind of relationship Norway should have to the Council of Europe, to the European Court of Human Rights and to the European Conventions on Human Rights. That's for the Stortinge to decide. This matter is therefore not seen in a vacuum either. Former Minister of Justice Sylvi Listhaug had several statements a few years ago where she actively said that she looked at international conventions as an obstacle to Norway in order to deal with refugee flows. In addition, this government has taken the initiative of an emergency committee to look at how to derogate from laws and conventions by, for example: a new refugee situation. There are several issues that go in the same direction: that this government has wanted to weaken Norway's association with international conventions on asylum. Then I have to be allowed to say to the Left: It is quite obvious that the Left believes the same thing as the SV in this case and is just as concerned about securing the international convention system as what we are. The signal left is going to give today, by voting against this, is unfortunately the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1591	I agree with those who say that this is not an optimal treatment from the committee. There are some of them, but at the same time it is absolutely necessary. In a way, I feel that some of the articles suggest that a person may not take enough seriously. I think it seems strange not to want to object to something that even openbert is opposed, as it stands out, even if it is a draft. It goes without saying that if you were against it – let's say it was actually suggested – it would be much harder to do it than to ratify it. As you can see, it is quite right of SV, and of Stortinget, to take this debate now. I want to refer to the Labour Party's loose proposals, because I think that all parties should be able to support it. In any case, it is entirely in line with everything the representative from the Left said, and so far also in line with what is the intention of the Council of State – according to what he replied in the line change with me instead – when I add the goodwill. Our proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to work actively to ensure that the role of the international human rights and the European Court of Human Rights in respect of and safeguarding the fundamental freedoms and rights of individuals is not impaired, including that the role of the EMD as a review mechanism is not restricted’. [[EMD]] I feel that we are a few of them. Then I hope that we can get together on that proposal, so that we can establish it once and for all. When such uncertainty is created as has been done in this matter – very well described by the representative Petter Eide – we have to take it seriously, and I also urge the representative from the Left to encourage their government colleagues to do so. We should be able to do that safely in this matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1603	I thank you for your request. I'm not going to follow it. It was said here earlier that this matter does not happen in a vacuum. No, that's absolutely right. It doesn't happen in a vacuum, it happens within a government where the Left is part of the decision maker. For some of us, it keeps taking a phone or sending an e-mail, we know what the government thinks about the matter. But it obviously has not done so for SV, who would rather score points in the public space and in the press on this matter than get to the bottom of what it really is about. To take what is contained in Article 26. Here's what it says: «When examining cases related to asylum and immigration, the Court should assess and take full account of the effectiveness of domestic procedures and, where these procedures are seen to operate fairly and with respect for human rights,» – and so on – «avoid intervention exception in the most exceptional circumstances.» At all, thinking of the idea that the left would think of supporting something like that is completely removed from my mind. And it is sad that the representative Eide, who has now had to withdraw his proposal, did not take that phone to either the government or to me before he took up the pulpit here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1617	It is clear that the left has very sore toes today in this matter. I just want to remind the representative, Mr Grimstad, that they have also participated in this famous convergence agreement in Stortinget, where it is stated in paragraph No. 18: ‘International conventions are less adapted to the current situation than to the time when they were written. In order for both the international community and Norway to be as well equipped as possible to deal with major migratory waves, the government is asking the government to take an international initiative to review international conventions, so that they can be better adapted to the refugee situation of our time.’ In the case of tightening: this is what the Left has been on. That's why there's reason to ask, when we get information that such negotiations are going on, despite the fact that the Left has been close to the government's friend in the last four and a half years and a member of the government in the last few months. For it has not been clear that Norway has had this position. On the contrary, we have had a Council of State and a government that has foreshadowed a view, that human rights and its institutions stand in the way of the policy that Norway wanted to pursue. That's the reason for this. I think that the Left would rather be pleased with an engagement from others in this area too, for that help I think the Left needs in this government in order to achieve this. I am pleased that the Council of State today says that this will not be carried forward. But I ask the Council of State to note for the future that when such texts are discussed and there are changes, it is wise to consult the Stortinget. It is also wise to take it upon yourself that, in the midst of a very heated political discussion going on throughout Europe and the world, namely asylum policy, and not having any comments on it, a major change in the principles of such conventions, the underlying texts or the leadership to be given is interpreted as a support. That's the way it is. You could mean something else, but that's the way it is. If one chooses not to comment in such a situation, a preliminary position has been taken which will be interpreted as support. It has not been good in this matter. I am pleased that it has now been sidelined, and that the Council of State assures that Norway has no desire to weaken the court in this or other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1629	The representative Petter Eide had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1634	I record that the representative Grimstad is a little frustrated about this. I am not accusing him at all of supporting the European Court of Human Rights' reduction in asylum cases. I think the representative Grimstad fully agrees with SV in this, but his party sits in a government that has actually gone for it, his party sits in a government that has led a process around this without objecting. On the basis of this, I think it is striking that, on the one hand, he supports the political intention that I have presented here, and at the same time rages against the proposal that we are making for voting today. He should actually support the proposal in the vote according to what he himself says.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1639	Most of this debate has been about SV's proposals, which fortunately now seem to be far from having a majority. I thought I would also link some comments to the Workers' Party's proposal. It might look pretty harmless at first sight. Of course, it's a little bit about how to interpret these proposals. If it's a wish for good weather, I should say, it's quite unproblematic. If, with the Labour Party's proposal, you really want the EMD to get more things, that you want it to be almost a Supreme Court, it is problematic. Then it goes back to what has been our view of EMD for a long time. It's a kioskvelter concept. It is the principle of subsidiarity that applies to EMD. We've seen in recent years that they've been dwindling and taking fewer cases to give national states greater discretion, etc. in some cases. It actually means that their role as a review mechanism is limited. It's not necessarily unfortunate in itself – and that's my point. It's not that if you automatically take fewer cases to the EMD, it's a weakening of the EMD as a superior body. Some of the genius behind the EMD is just that they intervene in few, but basically important things. I believe that in order to be on the safe side and not create any uncertainty as to how Norway's view of the EMD should be, we should also not support the Workers' Party's proposal, which can be interpreted as going away from the line that has been, namely that the EMD should be a review mechanism, but that it could vary from the discretionary margin of the states.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1646	The representative, Lene Wagslid, had the word twice before, and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1651	I can figure that out. I don't think it's what the representative Frølich said. I also said that in my post. We said that the European Court of Human Rights is not perfect, that there is a need for reform, that we end up with the work being done to reform the Court, that the EMD seems to be nearly drowning in cases, that there is also a right criticism of matters and decisions, that some cases are overly time, etc. What I think we need to discuss and resolve. We support this reform work. What we say in our proposal is that one should not accept the use of reform as a crux to weaken human rights and the European Court of Human Rights. I believe that the Right and the Progress Party can safely support our proposal with the interpretation that underlies it, because I am quite sure that we are a few of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1658	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1672	Last Friday night I had a long conversation with young people who are close to criminal environments where there are now more and more serious violent incidents, confrontations with the police, fight over territories and increased recruitment of new runners. They told about how the backers build new and established gangs by using young people as protection for themselves and as tools to spread fear. It's these kids who are taken by the police, and who never say anything in life about who's behind the gang. They know that it's the most dangerous thing they can do, because they're going to be punished with extreme violence, which they're much more afraid of than taking a prison sentence, which unfortunately almost only gives status in some of these communities. In several areas of Oslo – the police have said it is about. seven places – as I know well, many are now recruited all the way down to the age of 13-14. There is great cause for concern both for the future of these young people and whether we are in the start-up phase of a very difficult development. What the young people I talked to Friday night, asking me about, is: Why are none of the backers and reps taken even though «all» know who they are? Why does the police seem to know so little about what's going on? And they're asking, don't they see that it doesn't help much to take dozens of runners, that the replicators get as many of them as they want? They also ask, why do the central people in the gangs, even when they're taken for business, keep on without anyone knowing if or when there will be a case against them? The former convict Mikael Ali stood up on April 5 and said that the rest of the community feels that it is almost free, because the police are not as close to them as they were before. He asked the police and us politicians why it is. Some of the same concern about the work against organized crime and criminal gangs was raised with the Justice Committee when we visited Kripos and the Riksadvokat a while ago. There are also constant concerns from policemen who are themselves in the middle of it, and from outreach teams around the neighborhoods that I know and am still talking to. What should we say to the father who told us on the Dayrevy on 18 March about how the family saw no other way out than to pay between 500,000 kroner and 1 million kroner? kr because the son was threatened with extreme violence by a criminal gang, and because he did not feel that the police could help? Or what are we going to say to the residents locally on Westli, and several places in Oslo South, who are witnessing that young criminals are actually attacking the police in different ways? Or what are we going to say to the principal and the settlement team at Romesås, who are warning of a dramatic development in their community, where violence, threats, drug addiction and riots occur much more often than ever and among very young people? When I have raised such concerns in several interviews and questions in Stortinget – this year and last year and in the previous year – and criticised the closure of all sections against organised crime in all police districts as part of the police reform, I have been met with a lot of positive goodwill and understanding, but when it comes to what needs to be done, the answer has largely become that there is no need to govern the police in detail. But when the warning lights are as bright and clear as they are now, and the question is even raised with the Justice Committee of Kripos and the National Attorney, we do not have to run on Stortinget from our responsibilities. When we see the unwavering fact that the central leaders of the most dangerous criminal gangs are not taken, but get to hold year after year and actually pose the most serious threat to social security, as well as terror, we need to discuss what we can do and contribute to our role as elected representatives. I believe that in particular seven points are crucial for taking backers and repeaters, who never themselves carry out crime and violence, but order it and surround themselves with an enormous fear and threat force, so that no one talks to the police about them. Point one is that I believe the use of specialised forms of communication monitoring and data reading of the closed solutions used by the criminal gangs, as the Stortinget gave the law back to spring 2016, must be done. It's been two years. At the time, the reason was to give the law that we were faced with organized, dangerous criminal gangs that don't normally communicate openly, nor with mobile phones, so we needed new methods. I believe that after two years we should be able to expect that the methods have been used, but as far as I know, this has happened to a very small extent. The second point is that I think we have to follow the flow of money, which is what the criminal gangs and their leaders hold most closely. We have to follow the cash flows into money laundering, the crime of working life, large cash purchases that we know they are doing, and the transportation of money to the countries of origin of the families of the repeaters. We also need to use the legal devices that exist to seize large values and expensive items that they have – such as cars, jewellery and clothing – that they bring to others and that they cannot prove that they have obtained legally. So far, it's not known, as far as I know, that the police have succeeded in making these interventions in the flow of money into the communities we've seen grow in recent years. The third point, which I think has to be made, is that we have to break down the threat area that is so crucial to the power of the replicators. All threats and attempts at extortion — such as when several families say they have paid hundreds of thousands to avoid seriously harming their sons in particular — must be followed up and taken extremely seriously by the police as soon as they become aware of them. The police themselves must establish cases and not expect reports of circumstances that no one dares to report, and they must build credible protection for the victims. Even when those in the front line – in the police themselves, in criminal matters, in the courts and so on – work against the gang criminals, are exposed to threats and violence, it must be reacted very strongly and in cash because it threatens the authority of society itself. We saw the last examples of that in Oslo this weekend. In order to better stop and reduce this threat area, I believe that we need to look both at the criminal framework for threats and violence against both the police and others in these front professions, and against civilians, and we need to look at the resources and opportunities we have to build up credible protection for those under threat. The fourth point is that I believe we need to increase the capacity and competence of the police to work closely on the relics and their corporals – or lieutenants, you could say – 24 hours a day, week out and week in, month out and month in, year out and year in. In the assembly project, we saw that it took 5–6 years and approx. 40 years of work per year to get into the lives of the then dominant gangs, which were in particular the B-gay community in Oslo, until 2011. Then we can just imagine what resources we need now if we're going to be close to more dangerous environments that are now growing up, in addition to those that we've had and that are under heavy construction, and that are partly in fractional struggles, struggles, conflicts, and wars with each other. It says something about what resources are required, and how the ability to be close now needs to be built up. My fifth point is that we need to be aware that, in terms of the rest of the world, it's more about preventing, averting and detecting criminal networks if we're going to stop them, and not just about running after them when there's been shooting and stabbing, and investigating when events have happened. For those who are taken for these shootings and stabbings, often people who never want to talk about the repeaters – because they are handcuffs, runners, hired people – and who, together with lawyers, often make up stories that make the management of the gangs not related to events they have ordered, at all. The police investigation promise is very good and important, but if there are fewer people working to avert the development of the gene environment because you need more people to investigate after things have happened, then the right medicine is not in this context. I would also like to say that the growing threat from the rest of the world is due to international branches of Albania, Pakistan, the Netherlands, Gothenburg, Malmo, Copenhagen and so on. I can't say more about it now, but I think we need to lift a warning flag to mobilize nationally, because it's about gangs that are both international and a serious threat here in Norway. I'm excited about how the new Minister of Justice is going to attack this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1715	I would like to begin by thanking the interpellant for the question and for the opportunity to discuss this important issue. It's high on my agenda. The first theme of the first operational police meeting was about this – it was at the Oslo police district yesterday. Combating this form of serious and organised crime is a priority area of government. Much of what is covered by the question has also been previously addressed in the Questionnaire and answered by the then State Council Listhaug as well as addressed through previous interpellations, by February 2017. I share the interpellant's view that it is absolutely essential that we be able to go after the behinders in these environments. We must give priority to those who control the criminal activity and who are left with profit. At the same time, we must prevent recruitment to the environment. This requires effort over time and use of resources across the police organisation. With regard to the situation in Oslo, there is cause for concern, especially regarding Oslo South. There have been a number of serious incidents, including shooting episodes. It is in view of the fact that this area is the area for which the greatest concern has been expressed that funds have been allocated for a specific contribution to the 2018 budget. Police action is taking place within both the proactive and the reactive track and draws exchangers on the overall resources of the police district. There will be a close-up effort in the area in question with support from the joint units covering the whole district. It is my clear impression that the police have gained a lot of knowledge about the criminal environments, including the screening of those who have central roles, or who act as so-called runners. The police stress that much knowledge needs to be built up through the prevention of the local environment, through ongoing intelligence and through information from criminal investigations. The police are clearly aware that efforts need to be organised to the greatest extent possible so that they affect the environment itself and their recruitment potential. It requires that efforts are well coordinated between the different units in the district and that proactive and reactive instruments are seen in the context. Furthermore, good cooperation is needed with other actors who have tools, particularly in prevention. This also applies to other public actors, but also to cooperation with non-governmental organisations and businesses. The Oslo police have developed a close cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, on which it needs to be further built in this work. I will follow this effort closely in the future. Just as I visited Oslo police district yesterday, I intend to have more visits with them to follow up on this. The special Oslo South bet is followed up as a separate mission with tertiary reporting to the ministry. This is important to ensure that efforts have the necessary preventive effect on the environment. A number of arrests have been carried out in recent years to strengthen the police. Since 2013, police appropriations have increased by 3.57 billion. NOK 2,7 of which is in the police’s ordinary operating budget. For 2018, it has been granted over 18 billion. To the police. The police also have access to new hidden coercive measures. Police reform has made a number of structural and substantive changes to facilitate better resolution of the police’s social tasks, including the fight against serious organised crime. The reform contains elements to improve the quality of prevention, intelligence and investigation. Prevention is to be implemented as a primary police strategy across areas of activity in relation to all types of crime. The Directorate of Police, in cooperation with the National Attorney General, has drawn up an action plan for the lifting of the field of investigation. Furthermore, intelligence and knowledge-based police work are strengthened. All these groups will be valuable in the fight against serious crime, including criminal gang environments. The reform has brought about changes in the organisation of police districts. The new organisation shall strengthen cooperation between different areas of activity in the police and between different investigative environments. The Directorate of Police notes that the positive impact of this reorganisation will be that a wide range of research methods will be used more widely across disciplines, and that closer interaction between police capacity in economic crime and organised crime could have a positive impact on criminal environments behind various forms of crime. This is highlighted as a special strength in the work against the nightlife environments in the Oslo area. At the same time, it is important to clarify that the benefit of the changes will be realised over some time. For the Oslo police district, the reform involves bringing together several special sections. The new Joint Intelligence and Investigation Unit includes what was formerly under the sections on organised crime, violence and sexual offences, finance, environment, parts of traffic and sea, as well as the crime department in former Asker and Bærum police districts. The resources of the old Organized Crime Section are retained, but organised in a different way. The feedback from the Oslo police district is that the new organisation provides better conditions for the interaction and use of professional environments, acute competences and methods across the organisation. When reference is made in the question from the representative to the new institutions the police have been given, I expect that reference is made to both access to data reading, as mentioned, and changes in communication control. The Police Directorate reports that all available tools and tools are used by the police. In the interests of ongoing and future police operations, it would not be appropriate to specify more precisely the use or scope of the different methods. In terms of data reading as a method, it is also highlighted that there is a high potential in the method, but the Directorate of Police also informs that it is a resource-intensive method. Crime shall not pay off. I fully agree with the representative that you must therefore go after the money. I am very pleased that the Riksadvokat emphasises in its objective and prioritisation that withdrawal must be central to all forms of profit-based crime and that it has been given the lead to a higher priority being given to targeted research into the recovery of dividends. It is important that the police and prosecution authorities follow up criminal acts and perpetrators with targeted sanctions. There is a wide range of responses that can be used, and it is important that these are used correctly against the individual. I am not going to go into this any further, but I refer to the leadership given by the Riksadvokat through its letter of objective and priority. In addition to traditional criminal sanctions, the police also have important instruments through their administrative sanctions, including the administration of foreigners. Finally, I would like to stress that efforts against the criminal street environment must be long-term and knowledge-driven and part of the work done through police established structures. Furthermore, it is my opinion that various elements of the police reform facilitate a reinforced response to serious crime, including criminal nightlife. The Norwegian police use the entire toolbox in response to the serious crime, including withdrawal and new methods, to which the representative refers. At the same time, it is important to stress that it is not the use of the individual methods that will represent the solution to the problem of criminal gangs, it is the sum of instruments that can help to limit such crime. I am therefore pleased with the efforts made by the Oslo police districts, and the range of instruments – from early prevention to prevent recruitment to efforts directed at the established backers in the criminal environments. I can promise the representative that this is a work that I will follow closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1740	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I am positive – we also voted in favour – for the special investment in Oslo South, with 30 million. kr. It has developed a dangerous, offensive society that works all over the city, so it's not just about Oslo south. What I think is important is that the Council of State is aware of there, is that there should not be an imbalance in the use of resources in the police, so that it will be easier for communities to establish themselves. We are now seeing a development where residents are alerting about the situation at Romsås, at Westli, at Stovner, in Lørenskog and several other places where we see serious shooting episodes, at the latest last week and at the weekend, and where, among other things, a new, dangerous reproductive environment now, linked to a very dangerous drug mafia in the Netherlands, is under construction in the north of Oslo. They act very brutally and extremely in the recruitment process and the way they work. So I just want to point out that you must not let go of the grip in these other areas, where, to a large extent, there are also criminal gangs present and developing. I am fully aware that the Council of State cannot say where or in how many cases, or how, one uses the monitoring of communication and the new home Stortinget has given, but what I have heard when I have asked for the use of special data reading of encrypted solutions is that it requires equipment and training, and that there are advanced methods to penetrate these encrypted solutions. So what I'm asking is the processes of getting use of it started in a good way, not the number and when and where it's used. I think that would be natural for the Council of State to check out, when the Storting gives legal support and gets the reason we got for why those laws were needed. I would also like to say that the point I raised about the effort against the threat- and fear-field, which is one of the most important of these criminal repeaters uses to build up, and which allows them to keep away from the actions themselves, even though they are behind and earn the money, and which I made some suggestions on, I would like the Council of State to also spend some more time going into. The last thing I want to ask is if the Council of State in future letters of assignment to the police, where they give assignments to, for example, Oslo police, will give priority to the fight against criminal gangs and organised crime as an objective, so that they get it explicitly as a clear objective for their work – as has not been stated by the Directorate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1751	I really appreciate the commitment that the representative Bohemian shows. He has been thoroughly involved in the matter. He shows a good commitment, and he deserves both attention and honor for the commitment he shows. One of the first questions I asked in this field when I became Minister of Justice, both to the Oslo Police and to others – this is a problem that many, not all, big cities are facing – is: Can we say something about who has succeeded? Some of the challenge is that very few big cities of this size have succeeded. That doesn't mean we're not going to do it. It just means that then the Oslo Police must simply succeed better than everyone else, and that means that the Oslo Police in this area must be the best. To be that, a knowledge-based approach is needed. So the police have to learn to develop methods, attitudes and prevention that will succeed where not everyone has. To that, we need commitment, and we really need to look at the entire spectrum. What's also a challenge is that the image of reorganized crime that we had a little over ten years ago, when these projects were started, changes. There have become substantially more serious criminals who require extra resources, there have been recruited younger ones, and it is also more mobile than before. New media allows young people and criminals to communicate and move faster around the city. To respond to that challenge, the police also need resources to change. They must have enough resources to work, and they must have enough freedom to change in line with what is happening in society. But it's perfectly obvious that this is a priority area. It's perfectly obvious that this is one of the most important things we do. We're going to win a match in Norway, and we're going to be better in Norway than other countries that haven't. And yes, the entire toolbox will be used. Some of the tools in this box are extremely resource-intensive. This means that the police are gradually getting better and better at exploiting these resources, more and more focused, and getting more and more involved. I am very pleased that the Storting has given the new funds, and the funds will be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1762	As the Minister of Justice, I too want to boast of the great and good commitment that the representative of Bohemia has shown to the east of Oslo. To succeed in Police Norway, it is absolutely necessary to curb negative developments. Oslo has had few problems compared to other capitals. So it's clear that we're now seeing a development that's not good. Criminal environments are now trying to assert themselves, and more young people are at risk of becoming runners for them. So the police are working hard to combat this trend. It is important that we politicians now allow the police reform to work, and not fall for the temptation to start with the detailed management of police efforts. That's what we saw in the Storing last week. Then the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV promoted a proposal for the conduct of police action to Holmlia. This is an unheard of involvement. Well, what do we know about the whole thing, the total crime scene in the capital? The police know best how to allocate the various parts of the city, and we have to keep these details on Stortingen far away. We have to give the frames. Now let's give the police a good time to make the necessary changes. They are well underway, and an important goal for the police is to be able to use resources more flexibly in Oslo. Mobile concepts are accentuated, but also to be more outward than today, with a firm presence in places where people are located. An important point to be addressed by the police in combating gangs and youth environments that may be on the way to recriminalisation is to look at the overall effort. It's not just the org.krim section that has to work against this. The pointed end is very important, with the untraditional methods, but now the police are organized in such a way that they can work more across and put greater emphasis on building down bulkheads between different departments. In fact, even those who work with sexual abuse in the Oslo police district can assist organised crime, because they have come so far within the Internet investigation. Then the police in the East and Center are very important in this job to also involve the municipality and the school. The total effort – I repeat – is alpha and omega. The police's preventive trail is central. The police alone can't actually solve this challenge. Also from government teams it is widely invested, and it has been explained by the Minister of Justice in a very good way. As I said, the police are also in the process of investing more in online patrols and the Internet in general, and we also talked a lot about this in connection with the treatment of the ICT security proposition earlier today. Organized crime and repeat crime almost always have a lashing online, and this is escalating. So the police presence in the neighborhoods must be seen in connection with the presence online. It has to be worked differently. The police are meeting something different now than what they met ten years ago, when the A- and B-boy lived in Oslo. We're facing a paradigm shift around how crime is species, in fact, all over the world. Now that the London police are experiencing a massive escalation of violence and killing, they've been very clear that they have to work a lot more online and patrol a lot more online to follow up these environments. In the end, untraditional investigation methods are important tools, along with traditional investigation and police presence online and in urban areas. This is very demanding. So the most important thing now is that it's bet on the police, and what the government has now done is just that. Efforts have been made both at area level and at solutions for the police. We as politicians are going to get involved in this, but in terms of the concrete solutions, we should keep the arm's length distance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1785	The interpellant addresses an important topic, which largely revolves around the frightening development that we have seen in urban areas of Oslo south and Oslo east for the last time. I would also like to thank the Council of State for a good and comprehensive response, too much has been done by the government to strengthen the police: a thousand more police posts in recent years, strengthening the budgets, new important homes, increasing the penalties, removing the cows, a police reform focusing on prevention and, not least, as the Council of State also mentioned, a special effort on the south of Oslo in this year's budget. The police are doing heroic work, and I also think we have a unit leader in Oslo East who is on the track and is clear and open about the challenges, which is important. But we cannot ignore the fact that one also in Oslo sees trends in what has become an established reality in several other European countries. In the suburbs of Paris and in some parts of Stockholm, we have what is similar to lawless conditions and parallel societies. And in many places in Europe, we have seen a development that seems almost impossible to turn around. Fortunately, we don't have so-called Swedish states in Oslo, but that's not necessarily as much as we need before we get there. My point is that it's not an automatic in that we don't get there if we don't get to grips with the challenges we see. We've seen several shooting episodes in the south of Oslo in the New Year. A 21-year-old man was shot and tried to kill in February. In March another man was shot, and he died later. We've seen several cases, most recently a few days ago, of the police being thrown rocks at in Oslo. It's amazing: in Norway, the police are at risk of being thrown stones if they drive into some parts of Oslo. It is possible that these are conditions that are used to in parts of Sweden and France and possibly elsewhere, but in Norway we should not have them like that. I am therefore pleased with the Council's response and the focus on preventing recruitment. As the representative of Bohemia was also concerned: when children are recruited by organised criminals to sell drugs down to the age of 14, we have a problem. However, we cannot close our eyes to the responsibility of immigration and the lack of integration for this situation. High migration rates and trends in ghettophobia present increased integration challenges in some urban areas. It's done it in a lot of Europe's big cities. To believe that the same type of trends will not give rise to the same challenges in Norway is to be naive. A few weeks ago, I met a mother who has a teenage daughter at school in Oslo. She herself has a migrant background and lived in one of the burdened parts of Oslo South. She told me that it doesn't feel like Norway, referring to both the gangs and some other things. She told about the hijabpress and the fasting press under the ramadan, despite the fact that her daughter does not have Muslim background. The mother chose for a while to move back to another city for the sake of her daughter. My point is that the pace of immigration also has something to say about the integration situation. Strict asylum policies and other restrictions have therefore been important. There, this government has taken important and necessary steps. I want to give Jan Bøhler praise for focusing on the issue. He has done that many times, and he deserves to be praised for it. But also in his own party, a liberal immigration policy has been pursued in the past. In Oslo, after the red-green city council came to power, they have agreed to accept more refugees than before, despite the pressure and integration challenges seen in many places in Oslo. We need to strengthen the police, and a lot has already been done. But believing that you can make the same mistakes that many other European countries have made, and seeing another result, is naive. It is important that the police do what they can to address the ghastly trends we see in Oslo, because we do not want to get where other European cities have come. But then, in addition to providing the necessary resources and resources for the police, we must also look at immigration policy and integration policy and the things that have gone wrong elsewhere in Europe. There I am pleased that this government is looking at the whole and not only at parts of the picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1806	I would also like to thank the interpellant Bøhler for bringing up an important theme. I will praise his commitment to organized crime. It's an exposure that infects. The centre party is busy securing a local police presence all over the country. The local scope is not synonymous with something in the district. For us, this also means that the police must be locally present in the cities and in the city districts. This is about facilitating the police to know as many local communities as possible in all parts of the country, as it provides the best basis for catching up problems early. Especially important is a nearby police force too early to be able to catch up when young people fall outside. A short distance between police and residents is important in crime prevention, and it is equally important in cities as in the countryside. As population concentration is high in cities and agglomerations, there will often be a need for a further shorter distance in kilometres here than in other parts of the country to allow the police to have an overview and local knowledge. It's also clear that we see other problems in the capital than many other places in the country. The thread crime that the interpellant is dealing with is a development that we have to take seriously. Like the interpellant, I'm busy that it's the backers it's most important to take. Although these may be the most difficult for the police to get hold of, it is only when the backers are turned down, that the problem can be resolved with the root. Now the police have been given intervention to use them to fight serious crime. There was disagreement in the Stortinget in 2016 about which range to allow for the use of the new method of data reading and how to control this tool. Nevertheless, the police were authorised to use data-reading as an instrument. After that, however, we have heard little from the government about how the method is used, how often it is used, and what results he has given. I am therefore pleased that the interpellant has taken up the question, because it is precisely in these kinds of cases, where there is a suspicion of very serious crime and it may be practically impossible to obtain information in another way, that data reading can be relevant as a method. When the majority of the population went in to allow the police to access data reading as a method, the police signaled that this method was urgent. When the Council of State says today that he cannot give a concrete response to the use of data reading and communication control, I understand that. Nevertheless, it should be possible to estimate a scale and say something if the method has been useful or not. If the data reading method is successful, it's interesting for us. If the government doesn't have a better answer today, I hope he can give it on another occasion. The representative, Mr Bøhler, stressed in his speech that more investigators are not progressing if the movement of resources means that fewer preventatives are emerging from a criminal environment. I agree with that, and I think it is important that the Council of State follows closely the developments in the police in the future. There is also a point that the police must have as their own goal of creating cases and not waiting for them to be reported. It is precisely the threat picture that individuals in criminal environments experience, which makes reporting difficult. Many people don't volunteer for a criminal environment, but they're tricked or believed in, and they can't get out. In practice, there are many vulnerable people in a criminal environment who would like to report but who cannot do so because of the threat situation. That's why it's so important that the police take that step, go in to create cases and run them through the system. I don't think that's the last time we debate an interview from the representative Jan Bøhler on this particular topic, but what I hope is that we look forward to the next time, that we have even more good results to show in the work against serious crime and recriminalism, especially in the cities. I want to finish immediately thanking you for your commitment. For me as a representative over quite a number of years in Stortinget, it beats me repeatedly when Jan Bøhler talks about this topic, that the commitment he shows is such a kind of commitment that I hope that all of us in the hall have for at least one theme every.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1825	Thank you so much for letting us discuss this. I am, of course, also concerned with this matter, but at the same time I am a little critical of Jan Bøhler's approach to it. I'm going to come back to that a little bit, but it was to sharpen his attention, when I'm talking about it, that I started to say it. I think everyone in this room is concerned that we're going to fight reverberations, and that we're going to prevent the recruitment of young people to these environments. Jan Bøhler is mainly concerned with police and juridical matters; I also think we need to focus on social policy instruments here. So we're talking about urban areas in Oslo with a poverty challenge. There are high drop-outs from high school and high youth unemployment. We are also talking about areas with major integration challenges. So we have to see all of this in one whole. For the use of police resources: the new Minister of Justice was in the Dagsrevy yesterday expressing concern about juvenile delinquency and recriminality. It's fine. Then my question is to him and to the Right and the Advance Party: why didn't they support the SV's proposal last week on more police resources for this area? The representative of Angell Gimse ridicules this little bit and says that it was unheard of proposing police resources to these areas, but at the same time they voted themselves to direct detailed police resources to the districts against the lumbar structures. So it was unheard of to dispose of the police to Oslo, but it is not unheard of to dispose of the police to the county. So here it's a blur. If the new Minister of Justice is concerned about these issues, he should also support the proposals that come up in directing more police resources to these areas. Then to the representative Jan Bøhler. There's definitely a lot of commitment, a lot of important commitment, and he gets this area visible in a very nice way, but I don't think Jan Boehler uses the Storting Tool in these matters. He addresses these matters in written questions and in interpellations. It's very little obligating. I would like him to write these nine proposals he made today, on the proposal of a representative, so that they could be dealt with in the Labour Party Group, then discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs and finally come up with a concrete assessment in the Storting. Then we had a completely different and binding way of discussing these issues than taking them up by questioning, media playback, and interpellations. I have very much respect for Jan Bøhler's commitment to this matter, but he does not take advantage of his role as a staging representative and uses the tools he has available to promote these matters properly in Stortinget. So I'll warn him, please, a little bit, because in his strong commitment to making challenges around both youth and recriminalism in Oslo, he's also a little in danger of stigmatizing these neighborhoods. Because it's actually so that people thrive there, they want to live there, housing prices rise in several of these areas, and crime, at least if we see it in a decade's perspective, actually goes down. So it's important that Boehler here doesn't become his own enemy. In his struggle to raise awareness of these issues in vulnerable urban areas of Oslo, he also risks stigmatizing them and telling them that they may be more dangerous than what they really are. But all in all, I am very happy that we get this debate. My advice to Mr Bøhler is that he writes the nine proposals he has put forward today, on a proposal for a representative, deals with them in the Labour Party Group, is dealt with in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and is brought back to the Grand Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1842	I would like to thank both the Council of State and the representatives of Angell Gimse, Gulati and Klinge. I got some comments from the representative Eide at the end. I just want to say here that I think it's important to be able to discuss things in the Storting together, and that it's not always going to be mentioned in proposals, at least not necessarily in the first place. I want to achieve a community and an understanding of these things. We did it the same way when it came to social control. We had an interpellation debate last autumn, and then we promoted proposals in the new year. We made proposals when it came to organised crime, which was dealt with in June – we promoted it last year. It was probably ten or eleven proposals from the Workers' Party that were dealt with at the summer. Now we've had a few more discussions about organized crime, and we'll make suggestions as well. But I'm also looking to see what we can hear about, what the government – the government – and the government together will understand, will go into and will be noticed through these debates. I believe that interpellations and questions are also good tools in Stortinget, and they can be combined with proposals at the right time. So the representative can be sure that it will happen – in my opinion in the right order. With regard to the comments on talking about these areas, and also referring to some of the people who deal with them as problems in these areas, I have kept to the way the people have addressed this lately. It has, among other things, have attended two people’s meetings in Oslo South where the inhabitants have said clearly from. What they say there – what they say at Rome sauces, what they say at Westli – is: We're safe enough, proud enough. Our community has enough identity – I live in these areas myself and feel that we have enough self-esteem – we know that we're good, we know that we have good areas to grow up in and live in, and we're going to live there, but we're so proud of it and so safe in it that we can also talk about what we have to deal with. We have to combine these two things. If we're always going to hear that we're in danger of stigmatizing when we talk about those things, I think it's going to hurt yourself or ruin the constructive work that comes out of it to take things up. I would also like to say that when it comes to prevention in these areas, – as the situation is now – it is the very best prevention to get some of the backers. They are so famous, so established – they are unfortunately almost criminal role models for quite large youth groups. Dressing them in a way, taking them, will have a major impact on prevention and on the possibility of recruiting young people in these areas. We've come to you that's the key point. That's why I wanted to spend time on it today. It must be possible to discuss that part of the case as well, without always talking about prevention in schools and in other ways, which I of course agree with and have talked about in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1858	I will be allowed to say a thousand thanks for what I sincerely believe was a good debate and a debate in which one was willing to listen and approach this in a performanceless way. I promise that I will start this job and get to grips with the challenges in Oslo East completely without adding any prestige to what you're going to get to. We still have good control of this city, but we have very worrying developments. This is an area that many big cities are struggling with, and that we can't say with our hands on the heart that someone has succeeded properly. That is why it is important that we are both open and honest, that we allow the debate that Bohemia is going on, and that we get rid of the concerns that people have. I think it is important to allow the debate; I think it is important to say that having a debate is not the same as stigmatizing, but it is to understand more of what is happening. Reciprocal crime, which this time was the subject, is also not a clear concept. We're talking about gangs that are linked by strong loyalty bands, for example. MC gangs. But there may also be people who have grown up geographically in the same place or live in the community – there is another type of gang. And a third type of gang is related to kin, nationality and culture. It's not certain that the approximation of the different numbers is the same every time. That's why we need to respect the fact that the police have a different approach here. I also want to add just one thing to what was mentioned about prevention. I think it might be important for the police to have a greater role in prevention. There are many areas that are important here. Schools and education are important, social institutions are important, the children's movement is important, but there may be reason to say that the police need to have a stronger role in cooperation, in coordination between the various agencies, in order to succeed. This means that we have to allow the police to also enter areas where it is important to get in to succeed in prevention. I think this has been a good debate. But we are facing serious challenges. We must succeed in an area where the few major cities have succeeded. Then we have to dry to discuss this openly and honestly. I think that the initiative from Bohemia in this way was a good initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1867	The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1883	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1892	As the rapporteur, I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its good cooperation. We have dealt with this matter in record time, and a joint committee is behind an offensive attitude with a clear order for the government. I would particularly like to thank the Christian People's Party and Hans Fredrik Gruvan, who have raised this important matter for the Storting. When I went to high school, we had one computer at the back of the classroom. It was a Tiki 100. It had math games on disk, calculator, and you could play "Speak" on it. It wasn't connected to the Internet. When I got to high school, there was room for data. We had 30 computers in one room, where we had our own hours to learn how to search the Internet. It wasn't Google, but Kvasir search from the start page.no. The development I experienced as a child has accelerated now. Children who grow up today meet computers, the Internet and advanced digital tools from an early age. And we see that more and more children get access to tablet, PC or similar digital devices in kindergarten and in elementary school. Increased access and use of ICT and digital tools is primarily good. It can contribute to increased learning and greater participation in society. But at the same time, the new digital tools oblige us to work actively to create secure frameworks and protect young children from harmful content. To use a northern Norwegian expression, there's a lot of snuff commotion out there. The right of children to safety and safety shall always be a priority. By virtue of Article 17(e) of the Children’s Convention, Norway is obliged to promote the development of appropriate guidelines to protect children from information and substance harmful to the welfare of children. As a society, we have managed this through technological developments, for example. to draw up clear legislation on media such as television, cinema and computer games. From this point of view, national guidelines for ICT and learning boards at school are the natural next step. The Committee points out in its position that it is the municipalities – as school and kindergarten owners – that have the overall responsibility for adequate security on their networks and on digital units distributed to children. Protecting children from harmful contents of the units they receive from kindergarten or school is essential for school-to-home trust. Parents should be able to be sure that the school protects students from unwanted impressions. It is unsustainable that the first child’s meeting with serious harmful content comes through material they have received at school. I would also like to clarify that many municipalities are good, have different types of filters and tools already today, and the Committee has been concerned to ensure that all municipalities pay the same attention to this issue. For this reason, it is a joint committee which supports the proposers that measures should be taken to ensure that children in kindergarten or small school are protected from harmful content on the network. It is therefore also gratifying that, in the light of this case, a number of concrete measures will be taken. State councils have announced in their letter that they will send out calls to school and kindergarten owners to provide adequate attention to filtering against harmful content on the Internet. In addition, he has said that the Education Directorate has been given a mandate to implement specific information measures. In addition, the government receives a clear order to draw up national guidelines from the Stortinget today. Overall, I think this will help significantly improve the situation in this area. At the same time, I think it is important to stress that guidelines or filters cannot prevent children from accessing seriously harmful content. Children will still have their own mobile phones and access on networks elsewhere. That's why it's just as important that kindergarten and school teach the kids the web. Good digital judgment will be an important skill for children and young people to master the digital everyday life in both kindergarten and school and leisure. Similarly, parents must be given the necessary tools. Parents have a fundamental responsibility for protecting their children, and the community has an important role to play in informing parents about network knowledge and how to prevent Internet-related abuse. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good, effective cooperation and a good conclusion on an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1922	I would like to start by thanking the Committee and the rapporteur for very constructive cooperation, in which we have reached agreement on a decision asking the government to draw up national guidelines for kindergarten and school owners, so that solutions are put in place that hide harmful content on tablets and computers that are made available to children. The rapporteur has done well for the Committee's assessment, and I would therefore just like to focus on a few points. We are all pleased that new technologies are being used to create new opportunities for increased learning and greater participation in society. However, it is a major trust challenge if parents cannot feel secure that children are not exposed to serious harmful contents at school and in kindergarten, the contents they are protected against at home. When parents come to us politicians and tell stories that their children – down through the first years of school – have been confronted with content on the web of the most serious black while they are at school, then we have a trust problem. It must be a clear premise that when parents send their children to school or kindergarten, they must be able to be confident that their children are protected against online content of such a harmful nature. This is about the contact the parents have with the school, about contributing together to education and a good and safe growth. It is therefore not sustainable for children’s first meeting with serious harmful content to come through material they have received at school — especially when we know today that simple solutions are available through the use of e.g. filters, or other ways that we know are with and prevent children from meeting the type of content on their PC or tablet that they get delivered in kindergarten or at school. Safe network use should be a clear priority task for school and home communities. There is reason to believe that there may have been a certain degree of naivety in eager school owners to use new technology, without a sufficient focus on securing children against harmful content. Then we are well aware that filters or other technological solutions are not the only thing that is needed to train the child to good web habits. It is about training in good digital judgment and acquiring attitudes that allow one to opt out of content of a clearly harmful nature. There is no doubt that this is a central task school and home work together on – and can work together on. I am well aware that this is done in many kindergartens and schools today, preferably with input and advice from non-governmental organisations that have competence in this area. Common attitudes and leading attitudes in this area can help build good common venues between home and school that ensure increased competence, making parents safer as instructors in a demanding field and creating the experience of being together here – as a society, school and home – to give children good habits. It is positive that the Council of State, as he informs us in the letter to the Committee, has also asked the Directorate to implement specific information measures, in addition to sending out invitations to school and kindergarten owners to pay attention to the filtering of harmful content on the Internet. However, in order to achieve the best possible level of practice, I am very pleased that an overall committee has gone for the introduction of national guidelines. It will give the level of commitment that all kindergarten and school owners have to follow up, and will also create a consciousness of protection against harmful content on the web, which we in the Christian People's Party believe is the best starting point for doing a good attitude-making work in this area in the future as a society. Then it is important that the national guidelines have a design that makes them comprehensible to kindergarten and school owners. Although different technical solutions can be used to protect children, the result of the type of guidance must be that practices are as similar as possible. It's only in that way that you can build a trusting cooperation between school, kindergarten and home in one of the important areas of giving our children a safe and healthy upbringing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1947	I would first like to thank the representative of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for having raised an important debate and the Committee for a swift and good discussion. Today's schoolchildren are digitally natives. Where we in this room have learned to use ever new digital tools along the way, today's children grow up with digital tools as a natural part of school life – as naturally as we had pencils and draft books. The digitisation of the school is important because it equips students to meet a digital working life, and because digital tools can help them to acquire knowledge. But as this matter is concerned, digital tools are not in themselves safe. Whether it's a textbook or a tablet, it's our job to make sure that it's adapted to the kids who use it, both what the content should be and what it shouldn't be. The school and kindergarten owners are responsible for the safety and safety of children when they are in kindergarten and at school and for meeting the contents of the children are in line with the Childcare Act and the Training Act. This means that they are responsible for the proper security of their networks so that they can carry out their users and tasks in the best possible way. I believe that there is reason to maintain that knowledge, competence and skills are crucial instruments to prevent children from accessing harmful content online. Good information and awareness-raising is a more appropriate way to go than more legislative regulations. I am pleased that the Committee shares this position and supports the proposal for national guidelines. Different types of filters are important aids, although they will never be able to assure us completely that children are exposed to serious harmful contents. It is technically possible for schools and kindergartens to install different filters on their wireless networks and directly on the digital devices to block access to defined types of content and pages. At the same time, we have to recognise that not all schools and kindergartens are familiar with this possibility or take advantage of it. However, such filters will not be able to prevent children from accessing seriously harmful content. In particular, they will be able to access other networks and devices, such as: own mobile phones. In particular, older children will be able to find ways to avoid such filters. That's why kindergarten and school have a clear role to play in supporting the children, so that they develop good digital judgment, which I think is clearly clarified in the new framework plan for kindergarten and in a new overall part of the curriculum for the basic skills of the curriculum. The Education Plan of the Knowledge Lift is now being renewed. Both digital judgement and the use of technologies and issues related to sexual education shall be taken into account in the renewal of the profession. An important element of trade renewal is the introduction of lifelong learning and public health as one of three cross-cutting themes. The government will now appoint a multidisciplinary sample to assess new measures that will more effectively protect children from pornography and increase sexualisation. I would also like to ask the Education Directorate to implement information measures, as I have notified in the letter to the Committee, and also to ensure that a letter goes from me to school and kindergarten owners, so that they are informed about both filtering and how they can prevent children from accessing harmful content.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1966	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1971	This has been a matter that has been committed. There are many concerned parents who have made contact, and as the Christian People's Party also pointed out in its article, this is primarily a matter of trust – the trust between school and home. On the part of the Committee, it would have been an advantage if one had been able to get on with the development of the guidelines, for example: to school start now at autumn. That's what we think we would have improved this very trust relationship. So I really just want to ask the Council of State about this in particular: what do you think about the progress of this decision that the Storting is making today, about drawing up national guidelines for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1978	This will, of course, be a priority work, both for the Department and for the Directorate of Education. But I want to say that it's more important that we get good guidelines than we're going to be hasty, so the first thing I want to do is make sure that there's a letter to both kindergarten and school owners, where we're clear on both their responsibilities and what they can actually do. Then we will inform the Education Directorate that this work should be prioritised, but if it is clear right before school starts, I dare not guarantee from this pulpit now. But I agree with the representative that it is important that we do more things at the same time. I think maybe one of the most important things is the work that is now also being done with the new curricula, with public health and lifelong learning. There will be a multidisciplinary part of the school, which means that there will not be one specific topic that is addressed in one subject, but which is being worked on across all subjects in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1985	I would also like to start by giving tribute to the Christian People's Party to address the matter and raise the issue. This is a topic that is important to discuss when it comes to the digitisation of society and the role of digitisation in schools. I'm glad we have an overall committee that will have guidelines for just this. I note that the Council of State believes that information and awareness-raising is a more appropriate way to go than necessarily legal rules, and that different types of filters are important aids, but that we will never be able to fully ensure that children are exposed to serious harmful content. The intention of the representative proposal was for schools to use filters. I wonder what the Council of State thinks about what prevents schools from using filters today, and how, if any, national guidelines can help improve the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e1994	I believe that this type of filter can be useful tools. My point, however, is that you can't believe that it solves the problem, precisely because you can bypass the filter, you can use other tools. That's why we have to have a combination of different tools, where the filter is one of them. But we don't get away from the fact that the good teacher and the competence and the conversation and reflection in the class may be the most important thing to raise awareness. So I think that a little bit of the reason why this isn't used enough is lack of knowledge, and that you're not familiar with the possibilities that are actually there. That is why I believe that both my letter to the school owners and the guidelines that the Committee is now asking for will contribute to increased awareness and also that we will have the means in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2002	I thank you for your answer. I definitely agree that teachers are important, but also the framework. I notice that the concept of ‘data animals’ has a new meaning in recent times, and that the digital world children are moving in, is definitely changing. Then we must try to build sound frameworks around this school everyday. The data protection is important here – and the Data Port and Feide – and I wonder: How can the Council of State coordinate and coordinate work so that we can use digital learning materials in school in a wise and useful way and do teachers good?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2009	It is, as the representative points out, different tools and instruments. Now, the budget agreement in Stortingen also contributed to the development of data tools, where Feide will be a priority tool to put in place and develop further. Then, of course, it's the skills we're now contributing to, both through continuing education and throughout teacher training. And – as the representative and I have previously discussed – the renewal of the curricula, and not least the process that will lead to it, will contribute to increasing awareness of what is happening to the students today. We don't need a school that teaches the students to google, but we need a school that teaches the students to be able to handle the large amount of data that is just a keystroke away.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2014	SV supports this proposal. But kids in a digitized world can't, as many have been in it, be spared to get over content that isn't suitable for them. A filter must never be able to become a sleep cushion when it comes to doing what is most important, namely that adults follow the online use of young people and have conversations with them about what they see and what they are exposed to. Parents should set limits on online use at home and schools should help young people develop good digital skills. I noticed that the right often talks about digitisation. However, in the government’s own digitalisation strategy, many of the measures are characterised by a government assessment. When does the Council of State think that he has finished assessing and preparing to take concrete action, and what can these measures be concrete?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2021	We're done evaluating a number of actions, they're being implemented, and then we're assessing new ones. I think it makes sense that we, as politicians, assess before we launch, and so do we in the digital field. I have been involved in several tools, not least the innovations that we are now engaged in. We can do a lot of individual actions, but I think that with the whole and the whole approach we now have in terms of both professional renewal, skills enhancement in continuing education and new teacher training, we have a whole new approach. But one cannot escape the responsibility of the school owner either. School owners, whether municipalities or counties, have a special responsibility both to adapt education and to ensure that schools have the tools and tools they need. Then I fully agree with the representative that we should not move everything over to school. We as parents also have a responsibility for our children and how they use the digital tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2030	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2048	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2057	The proposers in this case raise a theme that everyone is concerned about: finding good measures for reducing sick leave. Employee organisations are concerned about this. Employers are concerned about it. The authorities are concerned. A good and health-promoting work environment is the first bid in this way. That is why we have the Working Environment Act as a protection law for workers. Today’s law is based on a long tradition in Norway. Many link this tradition to the breakthrough of industrialism in Norway and the Labour Commission of 1885, but in fact we find traces of labour protection legislation back to the early medieval laying laws, which stipulated that the worker could lie ill for a certain number of days without the right of the householder to reduce the compensation. There is a good article about it in the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia for anyone who might be interested. It is the employer who, under the law of the day, is to ensure that the safety, health and well-being of employees are ensured at all levels of the business. It requires employers to work actively to take action to reduce sick leave. Employees are required to contribute to the implementation of the measures taken. We have a work environment committee, a safety officer and a labour inspectorate to ensure that the legislation is complied with. In recent years we have experienced liberalisations in the Working Environment Act that have been the subject of tough political debates and even general strikes. But it's not a theme here today. Today, we are discussing whether to continue with extended self-communication for up to one year, as an active response to reduce sick leave. The Eigenmeldung 365 project was launched under the previous government and lasted from spring 2013 to summer 2016. 12 enterprises participated in the experiment. Two types of measures were tested: firstly, employees could use self-declaration in case of illness for up to 365 days. Four businesses also tried out the measure in the enterprise, which would provide individuals with security to work with muscle and skeletal disorders or facilitate mental disorders. Before the project Eigenmeld 365 was started, Kristiansand and Mandal municipalities had also had their own projects. Kristiansand had tried out a system of 50 self-notification days. Mandal, as this draft representative is about, had his own trust project with self-announcement for up to 365 days. The project was completed as a project in 2012, but was allowed to continue pending the results of the Eigenbericht 365. Self-announcement 365 has been evaluated by Proba Societal Analysis and the Arbeitsforskningsinstitute. The evaluation shows one important thing, which we should take with us. Follow-up of the sick subject improved at the workplace. There was a greater emphasis on organisation, thereby increasing the use of classified sick messages, but it has not been demonstrated that the extended self-declaration scheme itself affected sick leave. This was also the conclusion of the specific evaluation of the Mandal experiment. The system has influenced the follow-up of sick leave, so that follow-up and dialogue have become more closely and with more emphasis on the organisation and grading of sick leave, but self-notifications have not in themselves affected sick leave. The researchers’ conclusion is that a self-notification period of one year should not be made a compulsory scheme. They have several reasons for that. Most businesses in Norway are small, many do not have a well-functioning personnel follow-up system, and many managers lack the necessary skills to maintain a good dialogue on sick leave and presence with employees. Another important reason is that not all employers are serious, but can instead expose employees to undue pressure, which is easier to avoid when medically expelled. Finally, I would also like to point out that the parties to the IA agreement last June were informed without any objection that the government did not want to proceed with this kind of change in the self-notification system. We have also received confirmation from the employee team in retrospect. The majority of the Committee – all parties with the exception of SV, who have submitted the proposal for a representative – have therefore indicated that the proposal for an extension of an already closed trial scheme, which none of the parties wishes to make permanent, is not adopted. I expect SV to take up his own minority proposal in the matter. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to address minority proposals No. 1, from the Workers' Party and SV, where the government in the forthcoming discussions on a new IA agreement is asked to emphasise the positive experience of the trials actually showed when it came to closer follow-up of the individual subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2076	Then the representative Lise Christoffersen mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2081	I want to start by commending the Socialist Left Party first to focus on an important question: how to reduce sick leave? Sickness in Norway is generally high and higher than in other countries with which we usually compare. It is therefore important to look at possible actions and solutions that can bring them down. A high level of sick leave is detrimental to everyone: the sick person, the employer and society. The proposal for a representative refers to good results of the Eigenmeldung 365 project in Mandal, which was first out. That proposal does not seem to take on board to a significant extent is that both the Mandal project and the subsequent extended experiment with several local authorities cannot be said to have given the results you would like. Proposals to evaluate such a project should be based on knowledge. Self-declaration 365 took place in the period 2013 to 2016 and 12 enterprises participated. In the evaluation, carried out by Proba Societal Analysis and AFI, it appears that the intervention did not in itself affect sick leave, but that the scheme led to a closer follow-up and dialogue with the sick person. The overall function of Eigenmeldung 365 was to shift responsibility for sick leave work from a health care provider to the workplace, especially the relationship employee-manager. The hypothesis was that it should contribute to reducing sick leave through closer follow-up and dialogue as well as changing attitudes. The December 2016 report reveals several findings of interest. One is that the self-notification system was used significantly less than expected, only about 35 pst. of sick pay days. The second is that there were considerable variations in use between participants, ranging from 0.3 pst. of sick days to 76 pst. of sick days. The report describes the reasons for wide variation in motivation between anchoring in the organisation, but many also indicate a need to legitimise their absence from both managers and colleagues, or still had a need to seek medical attention. When sick leave went down in some places, it may seem to be the most strongly related to the systematic follow-up regime introduced by the project, not the project to benefit from extended sick leave. Measures to reduce sick leave are both important and necessary in the future. However, the test shows that the extended self-notification system is not the way to go. That is also why the Progress Party and the majority do not support the proposals of the Socialist Left. Instead, it is important to use other parts of the knowledge that emerge from the report in our further work, that is, the follow-up regime that was established through the experiment works. That's something we should look at further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2094	The sick pay scheme is incredibly important, because it provides financial security with equal conditions for all employees, regardless of the financial capacity of the enterprise. That is what has been too little progress, in my opinion, when someone has wanted to weaken the sickness pay system. This would easily lead to strong enterprises disbursing their employees, as opposed to those who do not have employment in economically strong enterprises. But there's a part left. It's not 100 pst. cover from the first day of the sea-going business. It's 16 qualifying days. That's 75 pst. coverage. Then there's a special subtlety for freelancers, who have 16 qualifying days, but who's given 100 pst. coverage — whatever the reason for that discrimination. I have noticed the project and what has happened in Mandal, with the need to improve the follow-up procedures. That's what happened. It is important that it has produced good results with regard to the follow-up procedures. In general, I would also like to say to this matter that the letter of reply that came from the Council of State, I think several should read, because it has a positive spirit to try out measures that can reduce sick leave. I think it serves the Council of State to show such openness in terms of actions that may not always be in line with what is Right ideology. The result is that there has been a new agreement on the more inclusive working life contract on 4 March 2014-31. ==References== It is assumed that the parties have taken note of the positive experience of closer follow-up and dialogue. There have been many debates here in Stortinget about closer follow-up and dialogue, and I am a little surprised that there are no more people taking responsibility in each of their areas and implementing it, so that you can get the sick back faster in the form of a classified sick message or by getting an organisation in the workplace. There's a lot of positive that can happen here, but there's a lot of times we're talking about closer follow-up and dialogue, and then it doesn't look like the results show up, because the sickness absences in general haven't changed significantly in recent years. Finally, I would just like to say that proposal No. 1, which the Workers' Party and SV have promoted, where it is said that the Stortinget asks the Government to emphasise the positive experience of closer follow-up to sick leave in negotiations on a new IA agreement, is a proposal supported by the Centre Party. I think all parties should support it. I guess no one has arguments against such an attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2105	SV has great faith in a society with little differences and great trust between peoples – a society where power and wealth are more evenly distributed. Then we also need a work life based on trust. Trust is one of the foremost Norwegian values and is worth taking care of. Society with small differences has greater confidence, and communities with great confidence are better able to live in. It's better when we trust each other than when we mistrust each other. Norway has a high level of sick leave, we have to take it in, and we have to work to reduce sick leave – not because the absence itself is the problem, but because it means that some people get sick at work. Sick pay is a scheme that everyone contributes to above the tax bill, and therefore it is only reasonable to get a little left on the day you get sick. Then it is wrong to propose a cut in the sick pay scheme and to introduce the day-to-day or activity obligation for the sick. We don't want sick people to go to work. Muscle and skeletal disorders account for 45 pst. of male and 35 pst. by the search messages of women. Psychiatric disorders account for 7 pst, respectively. and 23 pst. This comes from heavy working days with great physical and mental stress. Then it might not be so strange that we find the highest level of sick leave in the care professions, where there are always heavy liftings and hectic weekdays. The municipality of Mandal took up its high sick leave, arranged work better and followed up employees more closely. They simply had new ideas and better solutions for getting sick leave down: trust and close follow-up – trust rather than mistrust. Freedom should belong to the working day. Too few link their working day to freedom, and for many their work is controlled and targeted. So it's just in our spare time we're actually free, but it doesn't have to be that way. Greater freedom of work is possible. I think it is good for health that colleagues and not least management rely on employees and their professionalism. I think trust is health-promoting. We as society have no desire to force sick people to go to work. But with closer follow-up to the employer, the Mandal trust project has shown that you can find jobs that are suitable for the employee and that they can get back to work faster. What we have learned from Eigenmeldung 365 and the Trust Project in Mandal is that when we introduce extended self-communication rights, when we have confidence in each other, we find the good solutions – not because the self-communication itself is so revolutionary, but when the employer introduces measures such as closer follow-up of employees. In its letter to the Committee, the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs said that extended self-communication shifts responsibility for the sick person to the workplace and that it can support the main principle of the IA Agreement. The IA agreement expires this year, which gives us the opportunity to review it again, with new eyes, and to take with us the positive effects of the pilot projects with extended self-communication and closer follow-up. With this I would like to address the SV's proposal in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2124	The representative Eirik Faret Sakariassen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2129	Norway has too much sick leave, and there are many levels of work to reduce this. One sees that in recent years there has been a radical change in how one follows up employees with absence. In the past, it was often the case that breaking a leg was the general rule and the length of the search message. Today, we are talking much more about functionality and the need for organisation. We politicians can set the framework conditions, but leaders in each activity must exercise leadership. SV writes in its comments that the core of the extended self-communication exercise is that the responsibility for sick leave work is shifted from health care provider to the workplace, and in particular to the relationship employee-manager. Then I would like to remind you that this responsibility has already been on the employer for many years, and it should only be lacking that one did not have sick work at work. Nor should we forget the individual's responsibilities in this work. A doctor may come with his advice, but often it is the individual who sits on the best solutions, in dialogue with the leader. It is the employee who knows where the shoe prints, it is the employee who knows how the working life is, and it is the manager who may influence it. On 1 July 2014, amendments to the rules on sick leave entered into force. The changes entailed simplification of sick leave work by removing reporting requirements and redundant dialogue meetings. The aim was to free up time for practical sick leave work at the workplace. The main focus of the follow-up is now the interaction between the employer and the employee in the individual workplace and not forms and penalties. The IA Agreement has been committed to cooperation between the social partners since 2001. I myself worked as an IA manager in a logistics company to reduce sick leave. We spent a lot of time figuring out the good dialogue, where the goal was a higher presence. Attitudes towards jobs and colleagues played an important role in this work. Our main focus was that one should focus on getting to work with what was healthy, for every person wakes up every day with a real choice: Shall I go to work with what is healthy, or should I be home with what is sick? Talking about this in the workplace, while focusing on the function and opportunities for organisation, will achieve results. This also shows the experience of sick leave. It's a leadership responsibility. It's about dialogue. It's about exercising leadership. And it's about talking at the workplace. I agree that close follow-up under sick leave is important, but the rules and requirements for this are already governed by the People's Security Act, and they are the same, regardless of whether you are an IA company or not, and regardless of whether you have 365-day self-notification attempts. Therefore, the right will follow the committee's position and will not vote for us to proceed with the experiment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2144	Sick leave in Norway is high. A high level of sick leave leads to high costs both for society and for individuals. The government's objective is to reduce sick leave. This is a goal that we share with the social partners, who we work together to achieve, and on which there is also cross-political agreement. In order to find good disease-reduction measures, we rely on knowledge of what works and what does not work. There are a number of different actors involved in sick leave work, and actions targeting one or more of these actors may therefore be likely to influence absences. The proposal under consideration today deals with the testing of an action entitled to self-declaration for up to one year in combination with closer follow-up of managers at the workplace. It is an action that focuses on the workplace and, in particular, on the relationship between the employee and the manager. In this way, the action is based on the main principle of the IA agreement that it is the workplace that is the most important venue for an inclusive working life. Enhanced self-communication and close follow-up are, in principle, an action suitable for testing. And I think it's important to try out different measures in the sick leave field. However, I am skeptical of the proposal that is being discussed today, because more attempts have already been made in this area. In my reply to the committee I gave an overview of the results of previous attempts with extended self-communication rights. These show that there is little evidence that an extended self-communication system itself contributes to the reduction of sick leave. My assessment is therefore that we already have a knowledge base to conclude that extended self-communication is not the way to go to reduce sick leave in Norway. In the past, the size has been informed that my department does not consider that further testing or regulatory changes are taking place in this field. The IA follow-up team provided the same guidance to the social partners, which was met without objection. I also note that a clear majority of the Committee does not find the basis for taking decisions that are contrary to this decision. Finally, I would like to stress that in the framework of today's self-notification rules it is actually possible to use self-notification in most cases of sick leave. About 60 pst. of all cases of sick leave started have a duration of 16 days or less, and the employer is currently free to accept self-employment throughout the employer's period. This is why there is both an opportunity and a potential for increased use of self-declaration in workplaces where this is desired today. I would also like to point out that changes have been made to the regular health care system that make it easier for the sick person and the employer to agree on the testing of jobs. Among other things, it has now become simpler for 100 pst. sick workers to try out at work, and it has also become easier to inform the employment and welfare seat if they have worked in addition to the degree of sickness. It is important to test new methods and instruments to identify measures to reduce sick leave. But it also means that we should use the knowledge we get from the trials carried out. It is therefore not desirable, in my opinion, to carry out another test of extended self-communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2165	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2171	In line with what Mr Lundtigen said in his speech, we too, from the Labour Party, are somewhat surprised that we are relatively alone in the case of minority proposals No. 1 in the Set where it is displayed ‘The government is asked to emphasise the positive experience of closer follow-up to sick leave in negotiations for a new IA agreement.’ Some of the points were precisely, as we perceived from both the Council's response letters and the evaluations that have been, that there were actually some positive effects to trace by closer follow-up of sick leave. Since we did not manage to get the majority parties into the committee on that proposal, I thought that I should go right to the source and ask: does the Council of State think it is a good idea to focus on the positive experiences of following a new IA agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2181	We're now in the initial pit to renegotiate the IA agreement. It expires during this year. A thorough and comprehensive evaluation work has been carried out, with the aim of seeing just what experience we have, what actions we have taken and what the impact of the various measures will be. Of course, we're going to focus on all of the experiences that have been gained in the case of sick leave follow-up, to see what we might take forward in a possible new IA agreement. So we're going to look for both good and bad experiences of the sick leave follow-up in the work we're now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2186	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The council will not answer a question from me whether she will then recommend her party traps to vote in favour of our proposal, and then I will go over to something that we may not be fully agreed on. Before the election, Jan Tore Sanner went out hard against LO's leader and accused him of spreading falsehoods about the Right View of Sickness. The LO had then shown that, among other things. The right has opened to cut in today's order. Now, after the National Council of the Right, the Federal Minister for Finance, Henrik Asheim, says that the reduction in pay in the event of sickness is almost a prerequisite for getting future budgets to go up. Also on this question, it might be interesting to hear directly from the trade union council: what is the truth about the Right's view of today's health pay scheme? Is it to be cut, or is it to pass?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2193	The Court’s national meeting examined a number of proposals for sick pay at the national meeting of the year in connection with programme work — it was a thorough examination — and all the proposals referred to in the cut in sick pay were then voted down, and the Right voted that no changes should be made to the sick pay scheme. At the national meeting this weekend, there were also some proposals on the health pay scheme, but also those proposals were voted down. That means that the Right shall not make any changes to the sickness pay scheme this period, as we have also promised to the voters. Henrik Asheim has – quite correctly – said that in the future it is likely that this type of scheme will have to be looked at in the future if welfare is to be sustainable, but he has been quite clear that no changes will be made to the health pay scheme during this period. He has also been very clear that any changes should be made in cooperation and dialogue with social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2200	I see the signals from the Council of State as obvious, and it is reasonable to assume that the Council of State will have a majority in favour of its view here today. However, since the government will not continue the project which has led to a closer follow-up of sick workers, how will the government ensure a closer follow-up of sick workers in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2205	As I said in my reply to the previous replicator, we are now in the starting pit to renegotiate any new IA agreement. The current IA agreement expires at the end of this year. We have started a very extensive work to look at the use of the instrument and its impact. We have also begun to discuss with the parties what part of a new agreement, if any, should be signed. We are concerned to see which measures have a good impact on sick leave. Unfortunately, today’s IA agreement and instruments – as they are used today – show far too little impact. In terms of sick leave, we're not near the goal. When it comes to including those with impaired function, we haven't moved the goal one millimeter. The fact that several older people are longer at work is largely due to the pension reform. We have to do something about the IA agreement if we're going to achieve our goals better. 17 years of IA agreement have not given the desired results.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2212	I registered the same thing as the representative Christoffersen, namely the plays that came in front of and en route in the Right National Meeting related to sickness pay. Governments just responded to what they want to do in this period, but added something like you have to look at these kinds of arrangements in the future. Then I simply have to ask the Council of State: how long is it until the future comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2217	I will not forge what the Right's future policy in this area should be, but what the Right is genuinely concerned about is to ensure that we have welfare systems that ensure individual income protection in the event of sick leave or other health challenges. But we're also concerned that our welfare is sustainable, so that we make sure that those who depend on a public income insurance get it, and that we don't put ourselves in a situation where we get so much expenditure in the future that we can't be enough for those who need our services the most. The national court has voted in favour of all the proposals to cut the sick pay scheme now. We've been very clear on this. The right-wing fiscal figure was also clear that any changes should be made in cooperation with social partners. In the previous period, in 2010, the parties agreed to a change in wage and salary financing from the employer. At that time it was not possible to achieve because of technical challenges in Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2224	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2242	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2251	In this case, I, as the rapporteur-in-Office, have not even come to the conclusion that it is widely agreed that it is important to care for the interests of employees in the context of the competitive outsourcing of public services. But the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left actually mean this. We also believe that the interaction between the public, private and non-profit sectors is important. It ensures a comprehensive provision of welfare, freedom of choice, participation and better quality for users. Therefore, the outsourcing of public services, where public responsibility for financing and monitoring the quality of services has been an important tool for ensuring the quality and diversity of service provision. At the same time, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left consider that the requirements for quality of service and safe working conditions for employees must be the same, irrespective of who operates the service. Here, there is a real distinction in Norwegian policy between those who want the best possible offer to the population, regardless of who delivers it, and those who believe most should be public driven. When we want diversity, we look at user surveys, which say a little bit about the quality of services on the one hand, and sick leave, which says a little about good working conditions on the other, private tends to get as good or better out than public-run. Mangfold provides better services and lower sick leave, and one would think it was in the interests of employees. We believe that the public has a lot to learn from private people in terms of better organisation and reducing sick leave, and I also believe that it is in the interests of employees. But I notice that the members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will not recognise that the government parties are actually concerned with employees' interests. Of course, it is opportune these days to polarize the debate. They claim that the Council of State in its reply to the Committee presents the AFP as an uninteresting issue, when the private sector AFP is the topic of this year’s tariff settlement. On 3 March, the social partners agreed on the adaptation of public service pensions to pension reform, and the government has said that it should continue to implement the pension reform in both the private and public sectors. Now. The pension schemes for nurses and pharmacists, which are used as examples of pension schemes independent of employment, are historically conditional and have cost elements that make the membership activities unpredictable in terms of future pension costs. This may not be in the interests of employees. In addition, the choice of a pension scheme is a fundamental principle of Norwegian labour law within the employer’s governing law. It is the enterprise which has to decide how competitive it will be in competition with employees, on the basis of its ability to bear future obligations. This is also in the interests of employees. The rules on pay and working conditions in public contracts determine which pay and working conditions may be required in public acquisitions but do not require a separate occupational pension scheme. Nor should such a requirement be included, given that the activity is closest to assessing the pension scheme to apply. In the case of pay terms and conditions, the current regulations in this area require that wages and salaries should be at least as good as those laid down in a national collective bargaining agreement, where they exist. However, we have seen a few examples of business transfer from the public to the private sector leading to loss of pension entitlements for employees. Two auxiliary nurses at the Rödtvet Hospital had only months left until they reached 62 years of age when the company was transferred from the municipality to a private service provider in 2014, and they lost the opportunity to leave. But it meant that the then Right Town Council was unreasonable and made sure that the two assistants could get rid of early retirement, with the AFP from the Municipality of Oslo. I am glad that the matter was resolved. However, when we can mention single examples, it is because in most cases equal pay and pension conditions apply after transfer of activities, although they may be different. In the case of privatisation and outsourcing of public services, employees shall be properly provided. It is possible to find good solutions where unfair results may be seen. In addition, the government shall continue to implement the pension reform in both the private and public sectors. This includes, inter alia: public service pension must provide good incentives for work and facilitate mobility between the public and private sectors. I think that serves both society and the individual worker, and I, for my part, have great confidence that the social partners will come up with good solutions to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2272	Thanks to SV for travelling a very important case for many employees. Losing the right to earned pension just before retirement should not be lawful, especially when it is not due to people's own choices, but comes from political decisions on the outsourcing and privatisation of what was thought to be a safe job in the state or municipality, or in the voluntary non-profit sector with tasks on behalf of the public. People have experienced losing the right to early retirement shortly before retirement, without the opportunity to earn new rights. The result is a huge loss in the pension. Some have to reconsider their plans and continue to work, even if they belong to the group of workers. This often applies to women, who make up 70 pst. by civil servants, many of them in so-called consolation and carrier professions, with heavy physical work and low wages. The proposals from the Workers' Party, SV and the Zenterpartie in the case aim to ensure that this does not actually become lawful in the course of the proceedings. It is deeply unfair to those who are affected. Political decisions lead to great personal loss. Then it should also be a political responsibility to clean up. The government and the majority of the committee are unfortunately, but not unexpectedly, of another opinion. The case illustrates a key distinction in Norwegian policy – yes, I agree – between those who believe that the welfare services market should be opened up to private providers far more than today, and those who believe that in the core areas of the welfare state, such as health, school and care for the elderly, it should be good public services that cover all, and that such basic welfare services should not be privatised or commercialised. The Right Party, the Progress Party and the Left say in the opinion that the competitive deployment of public services has been an important tool in providing quality and diversity of services, although it remains to be documented. The debate today, however, is about the price and for whom. In terms of pay and employment, including pensions, that price has been quite high for some employees, and it should be over. The size has dealt with similar proposals in the past, during the previous magnification period. The proposals were then voted down, but the Stortinget has a different composition after the 2017 elections, so it is allowed to hope. It has been dealing with some water in the sea since the last time we dealt with a case of lost pension rights through the outsourcing and privatisation of public services, but much remains. There is a recommended proposal to adapt public sector occupational retirement provision to the pension reform. If it is adopted by a vote of unanimity among the members of the employees’ organisations, the transition between the public and private sectors will be easier, but not for all. The question arises, among other things: when one is born. In the preliminary draft, it was agreed that the AFP in the private sector should be further investigated. We do not know for the moment the result of those investigations and therefore what the relationship between public and private AFP should be like. In addition, the government has notified cases for the autumn of possible changes to compulsory occupational pension rules. We still have an unresolved problem in terms of acquired rights for employees of voluntary and non-profit institutions serving households who have performed a public service mission. That is why it is both right and important to re-submit the proposals. I refer you to proposal No. 3 that no person shall lose earned pension on a competitive outsourcing basis. Proposal No. 4 on legislative changes ensuring equivalent arrangements irrespective of the type of operation has actually been further updated through the settlement in the private sector. Today's proposal is no. 2, where the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party ask the Government to extend the Regulation on working conditions in public service contracts to include occupational retirement provision. Together with proposal No. 4 will contribute to ensuring a level playing field in the award of public services. Today, private individuals have a competitive advantage that affects employees. The new proposal is also No. 1st@item: inlistbox Unfortunately, there are a lot of unprofessional employers out there. Some cheat on pensions and fail to sign compulsory occupational pensions for their employees. The Uropatrol of the construction industry in Trondheim has revealed that no one actively supervises that side of the pay and work conditions. The Minister of Finance has confirmed that this must be done by the workers themselves. It's unsustainable. The minority therefore asks the government to establish the necessary supervision of related sanctions, but the government parties say no, and that is completely incomprehensible. The Christian People's Party has promoted a so-called loose proposal, proposal No. 5, where the government is asked to consider establishing a supervisory system, a form of compromise. The Labour Party will vote subsidiaryly for the proposals of the Christian People's Party, and I also hope that it will have the support of more people in the Chamber. I then consider the four proposals on which the Labour Party is involved, which have been raised, and I would at the same time like to inform you that the Labour Party will vote against the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2300	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2305	I will first link a few comments to the previous article. The representative Lise Christoffersen tends to be a deputy representative, but when the representative stands on this pulpit and claims that there are only some in this room who want a good welfare offer for everyone, it is a direct mistake. Everyone in this room wants a good welfare offer, regardless of the wallet, and here we talk about how to set up that welfare offer. It goes into a series, because this proposal for a representative has been promoted on a little wrong premises. It is based on an underlying premise that it is automatic in that the pay and working conditions and the pension conditions are lower in the private sector. That's not true. There are many other factors that determine whether there are better or worse arrangements. There is little doubt that we are all engaged in and served to safeguard the interests of employees in the competitive provision of public services. As stated in the statement, which was also the subject of previous articles, this has been highlighted several times through several representative proposals in the last four years. The working conditions of employees shall be safe, irrespective of who is the employer. The Employment Environment Act is clear that, as a general rule, employees have the right to maintain both the working conditions and the working conditions of a new employer in the event of a transfer of activities, but it is a fundamental principle of Norwegian labour law that the choice of a pension scheme is within the control of the employer. We think that's wise, and it should continue to be so. It is and must be such that it is the ability of enterprises to bear future costs and obligations which determine the competitiveness of the enterprise, not only in relation to other competitors in the market on the final product and quality. No, of course, it also includes competitiveness in order to attract relevant and good labour, where pension conditions will be part of what they can offer their employees. It is important to recognise that there are currently differences in pension schemes between private, non-profit and public sector actors. It has prevented mobility, which is unfortunate. This has been up several times in recent years, and I think most have seen the challenge this has created. It is therefore gratifying that on March 3rd, the parties reached an agreement, which is now pending final treatment, that harmonises and provides for similar pension schemes between the public and private sectors, which will also reduce some of the challenges we are talking about here today. The proposal we are now considering will go into and impose on any new employer a pension scheme, which the Progress Party believes is wrong. This could also result in different pension schemes for people performing the same job for the same employer. An enterprise must decide which pension scheme is the best, knowing that pension is also part of the package of working conditions. Being competitive under conditions is important for any enterprise. Only in that way will they be able to recruit and keep the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2324	The case concerns the legalisation of the right to safe pension conditions by the outsourcing of public activities. The centre party corresponds to a clear yes to that. Only those who are subject to the outsourcing of public activities, which have thus had a public pension contract, should not be allowed to continue their contract at that point. It is surprising that no more support what is the intention of the proposal. The Central Party also supports the establishment of a supervisory regime with associated penalties to ensure that enterprises follow up the statutory obligation to establish and maintain compulsory occupational pensions for their employees. It goes far beyond the people we're talking about here, but it's a general follow-up to the compulsory occupational pension scheme. If proposal No In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their excellent work. 5, at that point. We are also in favour of extending the regulation on working conditions in public service contracts to include occupational retirement provision. Finally, we are quite clear that, in the case of business transfers, we should not receive results that impair the pension conditions of employees, and we should ensure that employees retain at least the same good pension benefits as before. Otherwise, the Central Party will vote against the vote if our proposals fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2337	SV will be on hand with the heroes of our welfare, those who hold older ones in their hands and provide them with security, those who provide good health services to residents throughout the country, those who wash the offices of those who rule, those who keep parks and free areas green and beautiful, and those who give children and young people motivation and provide mastery – those who work for us all and keep the welfare state up. A few years ago, I myself worked in a nursing home, an ideal nursing home in Tasta Town in my home town of Stavanger. All my colleagues have been doing heavy lifting, care and care for the elderly and safety of the dents for many years. For me, my former colleagues are at the hospital as some of the heroes of our welfare state. Last week I spoke on the phone to an assistant nurse from the municipality of Austevoll in Hordaland. Some years ago, the FrP-led municipality decided to privatise care services. As we know, there are two areas in which you can save when you privatize. It is through cuts in pensions and pay and working conditions for employees and it is through cuts in the quality of services. In Austevoll it was supposed to show that there were employees' pensions on which it was to be saved. The assistant told me that more fear of losing their AFP after a long working life with heavy lifting. They over 55 years of age were in danger of losing the right to dispose of the AFP. Several experienced – they described to me – panic to lose a right they had earned over several decades in health and care professionals. In the municipality of Austevoll, the trade union and the employees negotiated an agreement that guarantees workers over 55 years of age the right to a special service pension. It was great relief and joy over the decision, which was actually a matter of course and a right they already had. But as the assistant said to me, there are probably a lot of people around the country who haven't got a good deal like what we got in Austevoll. And she's right about that. This is not the only example. Previously it has been mentioned Red Twelfth Hospital, which was privatised on 1 September 2014 by the previous Right-Leaded City Council in our capital, Oslo. There, two 62-year-old help nurses who were soon to lose their earned AFP, but they lost their right to it and had to work for another five years. When you have carried the welfare state on your shoulders, a wear becomes in your knees and arms. Who in this room would agree to have such a message just before retirement, that you should work another five years? The municipality – in this case Oslo – had to go inside and sort out the mess that one had made. I've been working more or less every Christmas since 1973. Now I will finally get home a Christmas, said one of them when the matter was resolved. There are large differences between government and private employers in pension saving. While the municipalities pay between 15 and 20 pst. of the compensation of employees for pensions, the private employers pay between 2 and 5 pst. This means that where you work, and whether or not the job is exposed to competition, will have a lot to say about how much pension you will be paid later. Examples from the Trade Union show that for a good number of employees, there is a loss of millions when their jobs are outsourced. It doesn't accept SV at all. Nor can it be that it should be up to municipalities and local people themselves to settle in the pension agreements of the people they have put up for competition or privatised. This requires national rules that ensure equal treatment for all. SV is on the team with the heroes in our welfare, rather than standing on the team but welfare professionals. SV will take the fight for the many, not for the few. We'll be on top of most people – not those who'll make money on yours and my taxes. Therefore, we will legislate on the right to safe pension conditions when right-wing politicians across the whole country launch and privatise competition. In this room, no one has poor pension conditions. On the contrary. Biggest politicians are very fussy about themselves. Well, today you can show that you want to be out with someone else's pension. I hope the Stortinget will support the proposals of the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre, and will inform you that we will subsidly support the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2362	I feel that the Committee shares a lot of the intention of the proposers to ensure the security of pensions for employees and that they should be treated equally, whether they are commercial, non-profit or public welfare providers. It is an intention supported by the Christian People's Party. Unfortunately, we see that over several years, neither under the red-green nor under the sitting government, we have not managed to achieve that goal. As long as one has had long-standing claims for good pension schemes in non-profit organisations, but has not been targeted, there are many actors who experience that public pension schemes mean irreplaceable costs for non-profit enterprises, as one has seen in the NOU 2016: 12, Non-profit clean-up – State coverage of the historical pension costs of non-profit institutions. It also shows that from the beginning of the 21st century, non-profit enterprises have faced challenges in managing pension costs when they are linked to a public service pension scheme. The challenges have to do with the obligation to regulate pension rights according to future wage growth. The selection points to the fact that companies are able to choose private pension schemes, and many of them have done so, precisely because of this issue. The Christian People's Party will not vote for proposal No. 2 and 4 in the setting, because these are problem settings related to ideal actors. This couldn't have solved it, given what I just picked up. In addition, this is the thing that tripartite cooperation also plays an important role in getting it in place. Proposal No. 3, on the other hand, is a proposal that the Christian People's Party has previously supported. It is about getting closer assessments of what is possible, and what are the challenges of any action to counter the fact that the use of public supply in the public sector, business transfers and change of supplier are weakening their pension conditions. That proposal will support the Christian People's Party when it comes to voting today. The opposition justifies proposal No. 1 that the financial supervision is largely based on tips from other institutions to check whether employers have created a compulsory service pension. The Labour Inspectorate does not check whether the pension rules are complied with when they are supervised, because the pension is not part of the pay scale in the public sector. Furthermore, the financial supervision cannot oblige the employer to pay the missing contributions. It is because these are matters of private law which the employee himself must follow up with the employer in accordance with the current legislation. This suggests that the opposition establish supervision of the establishment of compulsory service pensions, as required by law, for example: under the supervision of the Labour Inspectorate and that supervision is followed up with the necessary sanctions against those activities that do not comply with the law to establish OTP for its employees. The Christian People's Party believes that these are important issues in which we need more clarity, both in the interests of employees and not least in the aim of a serious working life. That's why we're going to make a loose proposal asking the government to consider this in greater detail. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider setting up a supervisory regime with associated penalties to ensure that businesses follow up the statutory obligation to establish and maintain compulsory occupational pensions for their employees.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2380	The representative, Tore Storehaug, has put forward the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2386	The representatives of Storting Solfrid Lerbreck, Gina Barstad and Kari Elisabeth Kaski have a proposal to legislate on the right to safe pension conditions in the event of the outsourcing of public enterprises. Proposal providers want to ensure employees at least as good retirement benefits as they did in the past when enterprises in the public sector are privatised. We agree that good pension schemes are important, but the occupational pension schemes in Norway are activity-based, i.e. the activities themselves choose the pension scheme applicable to the entity and its employees. There are a few exceptions, i.e. professional-based schemes, such as: for nurses and pharmacists. It is these pension schemes that proposers refer to as examples of occupational pension schemes. The pharmacies pension scheme was established in 1953 and the pension scheme for nurses was established in 1962. In my view, it is not right to establish similar arrangements today. A regulatory requirement for employers on cross-border schemes, as proposed by the representatives, involves a substantial conversion of occupational pension schemes in Norway. The proposal restricts the flexibility and autonomy of activities in this area. There are a number of issues arising from the proposal for horizontal arrangements. Who should be included? Are all employees or specific groups of training to be included? Should all workers in an establishment be included — even if the establishment has only a small service supply in the area covered by any requirement? What are the service areas for which the requirement is to be imposed? What kind of pension scheme should apply? Who pays for any value hedge of accrued rights after the end of the service supply or the termination of the activity? In my opinion, individual activities should be able to decide for themselves which occupational pension scheme is to apply to the employees of the establishment. Framework laws have been laid down for private occupational retirement provision schemes with tax-advanced treatment. Within these frameworks, activities have good options to choose pension schemes that are adapted to the economic capacity and competitiveness of each undertaking and which, at the same time, provide employees with a good level of care. Occupational pensions involve a high degree of long-term sustainability. It should also lead to a long-term performance phase of pension entitlements. This long-termity may be difficult to combine with the requirement for a specific occupational pension scheme for a period during which the activity has a special service provision. The proposers want the government to consider extending the rules on pay and working conditions in public service contracts to include occupational retirement provision. The Regulation lays down the conditions under which government acquisitions may require wages and salaries and working conditions. In my view, the type of occupational pension scheme should not be included as a requirement in public acquisitions. Activities are closest to assessing the pension scheme to apply. This assessment was also made by the red-green government in 2011, and I agree with that assessment. With the public service pension agreement concluded with the parties on 3 March 2018, the issue to which the proposers refer related to the AFP will be reduced, provided that the organisations agree to the agreement and the Stortinge agree. Following the agreement, a new public sector AFP scheme shall be designed in accordance with the model of the private sector AFP and the qualification requirements to be covered by the scheme shall be harmonised. This means that the connection time of one of the arrangements is also relevant to the other. I believe in the interaction between the public, private and non-profit sectors in the development of the Norwegian welfare offer. This helps to ensure a comprehensive welfare offer, freedom of choice, user involvement, user adaptation and better quality for users. In this mix, it is important to ensure that employees covered by business transfers are properly cared for. The Working Environment Act helps to ensure this, and I believe that public authorities, private operators and employees together find good solutions here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2407	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2412	I would like to draw your attention to the last paragraph of the Council's letter of reply to the Committee, which reads: «In privatisation and outsourcing of public services, it is important to ensure the proper care of workers affected by the changes.» Today, the Free Trade Union Movement reports that eleven cleaners in Defence Building have reserved themselves for being transferred to the ISS, and for two of them, there is now an ongoing legal dispute about the right to work during the case. They have now been sent home without a job. Does the Council of State think this is a good way of caring for older workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2422	It is difficult to comment on a case that may be in court, but I agree with the proposers that it is important to have good pension schemes for employees. That is also guaranteed today with the agreements that are. Private pension schemes are not left behind for government pension schemes – on the contrary, private schemes are also very good, although there are variations between private schemes. There is a question of negotiation between employees and their employers about which agreement should apply. As I mentioned in my statement, harmonisation – provided that the organisations agree to the pension agreement that we have negotiated with the organisations – by the AFP in the private and public sectors will help to strengthen more employees’ rights. To a large extent, many of the oldest workers will also benefit from this harmonisation, as one of the speakers was in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2429	I thank you for your answer. It is true, as the Council of State says, that with the legislative changes that are now on the steps following both negotiations in the public sector and the settlement in the private sector, we will have an increased degree of harmonisation. Then it is all the more incomprehensible that you can't find schemes that also fix for those who fall between two chairs there, but let go. The representative of Erlend Wiborg mentioned in his statement that there is no worse pension in the private sector than in the public sector. The last time we discussed the matter, he asked where to find better arrangements in the private sector. He couldn't answer it. Now I register that the Council of State says the same thing – private pension schemes are not left for the public, there are very good schemes there as well. Can the Council of State provide some examples of public sector employees who have been the subject of competitive outsourcing and privatisation and who have improved pension conditions after the event?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2436	Yes, there are several private sector pension schemes that are at least as good as those in the public sector. There are several hybrid schemes, among other things, which are very beneficial to employees. If I don't remember completely wrong, it's inside, among other things. Safe Barnhager is a hybrid scheme that is very good and does not stand back from public sector schemes. Often, when it comes to the transfer of activities, the pay and working conditions of employees and, in particular, pension contracts are often a discussion. How are employees to be cared for, and in particular perhaps the oldest workers, who are at risk of losing their rights? As was mentioned from the pulpit in the city, the bourgeois city council in Oslo, of which I myself was a part, took a lot of action, among other things. in order to ensure the rights of the oldest workers in relation to the outsourcing of nursing homes by maintaining the arrangements they had. This is often the case with other types of business transfers; transitional arrangements will be discussed for older workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2443	I thank you for your answer. We are aware that there are some responsible public employers who ensure that their employees are safe. But it's a little unsatisfactory that you have to look for adhoc solutions and get different solutions depending on which municipality you might be employed in, and the political governance of that municipality. In my last line, I would like to ask a question about what is stated in the Jeløya Declaration, as the government is negative to extend the regulation on public contracts to include pensions. The Jeleia Declaration states that the government will compete for better services and that individuals will compete on equal terms. Why does the Council not want public agencies to be allowed to compete on equal terms? Because it's not a level playing field when a private provider can ignore the employee's acquired pension rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2452	As I said in my answer, it is clear that retirement is of such a nature that it would be difficult to impose on all businesses the same pension scheme, both because it is a cost element, of course, and also because it is a duration that it is important that individual businesses themselves include in their assessments. The pension scheme should be financed in both the short and long term, and all those who have worked with the pension know that a very long-term perspective is needed when entering into pension agreements and when discussing the level of pensions. One would like to discuss at least 100 years in advance to ensure these rights. Yes, we are dedicated to dropping private actors to, because we know that private actors contribute to a diversity of services. They contribute to innovation in services and contribute to freedom of choice for users. So we've done that before, and we're going to do that in the future, because we think it's a good thing for users to have private actors on the track. Of course, they also need to be guaranteed good conditions of competition, so that they actually get into the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2459	It may be tempting to start by commenting on the latest, on diversity, because the Council of State believes that there is more diversity. But we see, among other things, in the kindergarten sector, there will be a few private commercial players who will monopolise and compete with the ideals. But we can go on to this with retirement, because that's what we're talking about. In my post, the Council of State heard more stories from both Oslo, in which she herself has been City Council, and in other places where one has lost pension rights. Then I have to ask: would the State Council have agreed to change its own pension conditions just before retirement? And if not, why is it okay for those who take the heaviest promises in the welfare state to be able to experience it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2466	To the example that the representative referred to in his post, namely the Red-Tarded Hospital, it was a competitive concession in which the bourgeois City Council in Oslo, in which I myself was part, actually corrected. We saw there that there were some of the oldest employees who stood at the entrance to their retirement life, who would lose rights. What we are doing now with the agreement that we have concluded with the organisations, which is now on a lashing round in the organisations, is just to look at how to harmonise the AFP, which is often the biggest challenge between the private and public sectors, in such a way that one can take the rights into account when switching jobs and going between the private and the public sectors. That approach, provided that the organisations agree to the agreement and the Storting join, may be one of the most important means of precisely avoiding the loss of rights for employees when they go between the different sectors. What is also important when it comes to putting out competition or transferring business is that we also look at what rights may be given, in particular, to the oldest, which they are in danger of losing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2475	If you hadn't been exposed to competition at first, the Oslo City Council wouldn't have had to correct the problems that you yourself had experienced and contributed to. Then I have to follow up and ask the Council of State: When e.g. Austevoll municipality must enter into special agreements now – Oslo municipality must also do so – and other municipalities leave alone, what is it that one should not have a national legislation that says that these conditions should be the same everywhere? Why should it be so that e.g. those who work in a nursing home or do laundry must depend on their local politicians taking responsibility – when their local politicians are the ones who have put the employees in this situation? What makes the Council of State think that we should not have a national legislation to ensure this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2483	Today, pay and pension issues are a question of negotiation between employers and employees. It is up to the employer and the employee to assess the pay and pension conditions to be met if the legislation and regulations in this area are followed. Oslo Municipality, for example, has the best pension agreement in the country. There is no municipality that has such a good and lucrative pension scheme as the municipality of Oslo, and it would be strange if you, for example. would oblige the entire municipality of Norway to have the same favourable pension scheme as the municipality of Oslo. This must be agreed between the employer and the employees. But the municipalities are also free to correct any imbalance. Our point is that when we say no to this proposal and we do not think we should adopt it, it is because pensions are of such a nature and of such an extent – also cost-effectively – that they themselves have to consider whether or not they can afford to bear the agreement. Of course, close cooperation with employees' organisations is also important here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2490	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2497	It's about a value question. Do we really believe that those who work in care for the elderly, child protection, cleaning and renovation have too good pensions? And do they serve too much? Right on the Elverum, in my county, Hedmark, once proposed to launch the hospital home. Then I invited the rapporteur from the Right – Erik Hanstad, whom he is called – and said that it is okay, you can take me in, and we can go to the hospital home, and then you can see the health professionals right into the eyes and say that you serve too much and you have too good a pension. That's what this is all about. There was no such outsourcing in that municipality. But in many municipalities it has been; in care of the elderly, in child protection, in renovation and in cleaning, it is massive. There we have also seen that part of this competition has resulted in so unhealthy competition on pay and working conditions that people become ill and ill, and also that the contracts are broken, and that the public in retrospect must take over. This is about what is our common responsibility, we should take responsibility for doing it in a responsible way, and that those who do the job for us have safe pay, pension and working conditions. There is not one assistant or reindeer in this country who serves too much or has too good a pension. They have little, they do important jobs, and the differences between them and others, with good pensions, should be reduced. If you put off competition, it's these costs it's often competitive at. I hear that the Council of State and others say that there are private arrangements that are at least as good. Yeah, but what's the problem? When the Council of State in its last response now comes back, the costs are the problem. Yeah, it's going to cost a lot. Yeah, it's worth it. Yes, these people deserve the pension they will receive, if they are employed like those employed in the public sector. That's the whole thing. That is what SV means, and we must ensure that. If there are some private pensions that are equally good, there can be no problem either for the state or for the municipalities concerned. So if that's the case, everyone should agree to it. This is about securing these employees. They're important -- they're actually most people. So while this hall, the government and its partners have had quite a billion to distribute to people with high incomes, they are not willing to help secure the retirement of the heroes of well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2516	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2530	I have been asked to inform you about the situation around the action programme, originally what Bane NOR came with. The Railway Directorate made its appearance yesterday. That's why I asked Stortinget to find out about it and not just about it from Bane NOR. I also think it is important that we put this in perspective – what we want with the railway, the development that has been, where one should go on – and not limit it to a few points in a big and broad bet. Overall, the government wants to work for good mobility and good transport solutions in society. It is important for us to have a functioning society, which allows us to develop good housing and work regions, and which allows business to easily recruit good labour and have easy access to markets. It's a long canvas to pale when you're going to make this, because we have a long country, with very different climates and different topography and geography. We're settled somewhere, very close elsewhere. This means that we need a variety of complementary transport solutions that are well adapted to both local and regional conditions, but also make the nation work well as a whole. The railway has an important role to play in this. Although it is on our roads that will have the vast majority of transport, there is no doubt that the railways – especially in cities, in terms of commuting and on long distances for freight – are doing an important job both in providing unique transport solutions and in complementing our road network. In order for travellers and freight operators to have a good rail service, there are many pieces that need to be in place. One is about good infrastructure, knowing that the infrastructure has capacity, that it functions, that the signalling system is modern and gives the signals to it, and that the facilities at the stations are both responsive and, not least, functional in terms of the needs that you have – it must be properly dimensioned and in good condition. All of this is an important part of the total picture. Without infrastructure, of course, there will be no service provision at the top of it. Therefore, in the years it has managed, the government has spent a lot of time ensuring good organisation of the way we own and operate the infrastructure, and on the plans for its further development. Ownership of all infrastructure is now collected in Bane NOR. Where it was previously partially dispersed, we have now received one actor to control this. We have to have a good train offer, because that's what makes the railway attractive. Having many departures, fixed frequencies, good flexibility and not least good predictability is important for people to choose the railway. Some people have good time and can choose from what costs the least. For many, there is a combination of quality, frequency, time and price that governs. If we are to make the railway even more competitive, especially in order to relieve traffic in and out of cities, the railway must have high frequency, high predictability and reliability. In addition, trains must have good capacity and be able to work on board. It must simply be attractive to travel by rail. It shall not only cover transport purposes but also appear more attractive than competitive offers on the same routes. It is therefore very good that in its draft action programme, the Directorate-General for Railways also emphasises the importance of ensuring that something as simple as having Internet coverage on board trains is one of the things that needs to be resolved. There has been a lot of effort on the railway over time. That effort has been very strong in recent years as well. Measured in rail transport, we now see the result. The number of passengers has increased by 22,3 pst. from 2012 to 2016, against an increase of 7.6 pst. for road traffic. So it's a growth rate for the railway that's almost three times higher than for road traffic. There's evidence that many people want to travel by rail, and that's good. We also see that we are now turning a negative trend in the transport of containers on the railway. NHO's figures in recent years show that after many years of decline, we've had an upturn. We've seen a total increase in freight by rail of 15.5 pst. from 2012 to 2016, when one includes timber and other goods, bulk goods – almost twice as much growth in relation to the growth that has been on the way. But there's no doubt that the volume on the road is initially larger. In the number of tons, in the number of kilometers, there is also a very high growth on the road. But there's a higher rate of growth on the railway. Despite the fact that more and more people travel by rail, that we get a record high number of travelers, we also experience that the customer satisfaction index of the NSB is record good. In 2017, it was measured at 75 points, which is considered a good result. So we're getting more people on the trains, and at the same time, the passengers are more satisfied. Often a believe one would get the opposite result, that when there are more on board a train set, people would feel less comfortable, less satisfied. We see on the contrary that the opposite happens. It's a little about one having had a huge increase in the number of departures, a good upgrade of many train sets, etc. These are the results of a long-term conscious effort. In money one sees that in recent years one has had a good growth both in percent and in dollars. In the last five years, i.e. in the budgets for 2014 up to and including 2018, 114 billion have been allocated. 2018-kronor for railway purposes. If we compare that with the previous five years, the budget was then 72.8 billion. 2018-kroner. If you look at the nominal growth, there's an increase of 60.2 billion. NOK 108,4 billion. kr. It itself reflects a political will and ability to invest many resources on the railways. The situation that one had, in which the Railway Agency in 2010-2011 warned against the danger of the railway collapsing, we must not get into. We have to make sure that trust is built up, not reduced. However, it is easier said than done to fix all problems that have built up over time, especially when one also wants to increase capacity. So it's not just about fixing what you had yesterday, it's about making sure you have even more tomorrow. Then it's important that you have a plan for the work that's to be done, because a political must be involved and evaluate what it is that we want to achieve. What are the regions in which a commitment is to be made? How do you view the different projects? We must avoid building a parcel that cannot be used for many years because the next parcel does not come, that one builds and sets one place, and yet it is not followed up by local authorities in their urban development or in other collective action, or that a simple competition between road and rail is unnecessary, instead of building up and specialising in the transport years of different places in the country to create the best possible national offer. In the national transport plan, the investment on the railway is continued. The plan adds 327.5 billion. to the railway during the 12-year period. There's a crazy big increase, both in percent and, not least, in dollars. Appropriations for the purchase of passenger transport services, i.e. subsidisation or the purchase of services to make train tickets cheaper, are added. Only in 2018 will it use public over 3 billion. kr to purchase train services. It's also a symbol of how important a cross-political seems to be getting more people to want to travel by rail. Based on the national transport plan presented, the Directorate-General for Railways has now, in the light of technical advice from other entities in the sector, clarified how these funds, the 327.5 billion. kr, should be used. The action programme which they have now submitted shall be open to consultation until 22 June and shall be finalized in July. It's important that all actors in society who have a heart for the railway, or who look at what's using the railway, can join in and make recordings, come up with even better ideas on how to meet the ambitions we've put up with in the NTP, which we're firmly committed to, in order to implement them in a good way. In the annual budgets, the government will return to the Storting with concrete proposals for appropriations for the implementation of the national transport plan. We will present the various concrete construction projects for the Storting for final decision. The action programme is not only an action programme for the major infrastructure projects but also for the overall supply of the railways and how to address the challenges. So NTP is a document that should describe not just investments, but overall how we want to solve our transport challenges in society. This includes the infrastructure we have – we will try to see how society evolves in terms of urban growth, in terms of growth in the districts, how business start-ups will affect transport flows in the future, how we ensure that our fish from North Norway and the Western countries get to the markets both nationally and, not least, internationally, and how the development of technology will affect our travel habits, our vehicles and the decisions we take on the long-term solutions, but also just day-to-day solutions. Based on those analyses, a national transport plan is drawn up, where we look at where we need to build up infrastructure, and what type. Where do we have to take better care of what we have? Where do we have to increase our capacity? Where can we reduce travel time by building the infrastructure elsewhere than where it went before? The government submitted its Report. St. 33, National Transport Plan 2018-2029, one year and five days ago. The frame was over 1,000 billion. kr. It shows how to work with development. When you're planning to spend over 1000 billion. 12 years old, it is important to be able to see things in the context and, as I said, to make sure that what is being built today is also useful tomorrow. It's important that we look at the long perspectives of what we're building, so we're also proud of it when we use the same infrastructure in 10, 20 and 30 years, so we don't experience, as we've experienced with some road projects, that before the couple is done from A to B, those who live in the middle of it, who got their part built up maybe 15 years ago, saying that the capacity is out of date and that the road goes to the wrong place. That's why you have a national transport plan to see the long lines. NTP is also a governance document from accumulation and government to the state agencies to implement this. When the Road Administration, the Railway NOR, the Coastal Works and the Avinor are to sit and convert this into projects, it is important that they are also given clear guidance signals on what they want, what projects they need to spend time on first to plan ready for construction, and what projects may be a little longer. Without a national transport plan, there would be an eternal struggle between all projects at all times. Now we're getting a governance paper. At the same time, it is important to stress that there is not a collection of construction projects where all plans are clear, where all plans can be started and built if only one had flipped on it. NTP is a collection of projects where some are already under construction and it's about completing them, where others have almost completed construction plans and control plans, while others have come back so short that you're doing municipal part work, where you might not know much about basic conditions and other things, but you know enough that it's the path you want the railway to have, that's where you want the motorway to go – not because you're going to build it tomorrow, but because it has to be a whole with all the other things you want to get, and just to have a 12-year perspective – yes, really, a 2050 perspective – on what you're doing. Then you also roll national transport plans at regular intervals, every four years, precisely so that, when you have a collection of everything from pottery-ready projects to those who, in the best or worst case, are a good idea – you can see as you get more knowledge of the projects: are we going to implement the plan as we would four years ago? Has there been any new information? Has our society changed? Has technology given us new opportunities, and are we going to realize other projects instead? Sometimes such decisions are made. Often you stick to the visions you've had, but you go a step further, just to be able to put the spade in the ground. In this work, it is important to have good planning opportunities in the floors, simply because many would point out that for example. InterCity projects in the East have been ideas presented by the NSB early in the 1990s. That doesn't mean that the plans we have now have been thoroughly worked out for almost 30 years. On the contrary, we see that there are many of the plans that are still relatively general, but that require a lot of work before the shovel can be put in the ground. In the work done since the National Transport Plan was presented, both from the time it was presented as a basic document to the government and from the government, the transport modes have continued to work. There's been new information. Much is quite undramatic, but strengthens the decisions that you have taken in different areas. Sometimes there's information from work that's done, which makes you see some projects with new eyes. Some of the work that has been done since spring 2017, and even more since the basic document was created in 2016, is among others. ground drilling in the Eastfold area to find out: what is the reason why we are now thinking that we should build a new railway? I'll come back to it. The level of funding that has been available has not necessarily been high enough for the Railway Agency to be able to do all the thorough preparatory work that we would like to do in order to make the final decisions. For the last five years, the railway has had almost 6.5 billion. 2018-krona for planning. The previous five years had a 2.5 billion. kr. It goes without saying that when you can more than double the real allocation to the railway, you'll eventually get more information about the projects, you mature them. It gives you the opportunity to have construction drawings ready, but sometimes also that there are dilemmas – some of them unproblematic, some of them a bit of chicken. In their input to the action programme of the Directorate-General for Railways, Bane NOR looked into these projects. They have found that there are two projects — or two sections — where basic conditions or other factors make it more difficult to build than originally thought. There is information that the government became familiar with when Bane NOR presented this – and that the Storting is now familiar with. In addition, Bane NOR has had time and capacity to look at other things, such as:Now that we actually know that we're going to build this, how do we make sure that the projects are implemented in a good way? How to prioritize progress, how to work with local authorities, how to maintain cost control with the large frameworks that we have, but without exceeding them? How to minimise the risk of implementation? But also practical things: how do we run out of traffic on a route where you have to build, with the experience you have from bus for trains to Oslo S in recent years? How do we ensure that we avoid new debates, which have been held around Folloban on contracts and nationality, and how can we ensure that these are both good agreements for the nation and for the state and contribute to employment and national industrial development? And is that other relationship that we have to relate to? In the changes that Bane NOR proposed, they assumed that with the knowledge they had then acquired, which we later also gained, there was an increased planning need for some sections, mainly on the Dovreban and the Eastfold Railway. There was an increase in the cost of some projects due to more complex basic conditions, especially on the Eastfold. But they also addressed what I said, that they wanted to achieve more flexible traffic management. They wanted to address the challenges related to the extensive use of busses for trains during the construction period, they wanted to avoid pressure on the construction market and to ensure that good Norwegian operators in competition with others could win contracts and that no new debates were brought to an end, see. The Folloban Tunnel. A rational and cost-effective implementation of the project would be ensured. I don't see what Bane NOR said, as a rematch about NTP, but it's about a call from professionals on how to implement NTP in a practical and cost-effective way. The railway directorate has now assessed Bane NOR's input, and they support most of the recommendations. This means that we have now had two good professional environments that have gone through the same evidence documentation and reached the same conclusions on a lot – but not on everything. An example is the Ringerix track, where the directorate now suggests that you start up earlier than Bane Nor had planned. The same applies to new level plated connection for the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway. It is also a reminder that even good environments in Bane NOR can be challenged by the directorate, but also by the entrepreneurial market – which now has this matter at their disposal – and can get input into even better ways of doing things. We should have that dynamic, so that we know that we can carry out the projects as best we can, at the lowest possible cost, with the best possible security for those who have to work there, and to the best possible satisfaction for the customers. Some have given the impression that what is now happening is a change in the level of ambition of the government. One gives the impression that it is now about too little money. That's not the case, the level of ambition is unchanged. What Bane NOR and the Directorate of Railways use is the allocation and escalation of the NTP. But it's based on further knowledge, which is passed on to them in the months and the year after, and they then give their best professional advice in line with that. I mentioned two projects where new knowledge makes you look a little different at them. One is Kliverud-Sørli-Akersvika. When it was handled by a quality assurance body in the KS2 process, a number of recommendations were made, including: in the case of contract strategy. In addition, it was recommended that a person should see the project in the context of Sørli–Åkersvika, because one believes that a more comprehensive development of the project could result in cost reductions and thus a better project. The planning of this route is now being carried out with a view to completing the detailed and regulatory work in 2019. So it's not a lack of money that's done this, it's simply because you think you can get a better project. This means that you have a slightly different view of how fast progress should be. The second is Haug-Seut, Sarpsborg, where the Railway Agency developed a proposal for a project in the planning programme we received in the spring of 2016. After that, the council, which discussed the proposal on 12 May, came with demands for the further process. This has meant that things have taken a little longer. Progress was slowed, and the plan programme was not adopted until one year later, early in May 2017, i.e. after the national transport plan was submitted to Stortinget. One has also seen, through new basic studies and planning in 2016 and 2017, that there are several sites where very poor basic conditions and much greater complexity have been identified in the project. Our Lord has simply not been so kind to us as we had hoped. It gives us a significant increase in costs, which means that we need to review the plans again. So there's no lack of money, it's not a reduction in the government's ambitions, it's not a warning that the money doesn't come from. It is quite simply that professionals are going to translate this into something that can be built. We should remember that many of these projects were never included as an implementation project in a national transport plan, they have been a bit diffuse, as part of a larger vision, but not at the level of detail that is now. Both Bane NOR and the Directorate-General for Railways also believe that not all IC projects in the East should be carried out at the same time for the benefit of travellers. It is knowledge that has come simply by seeing how one manages to carry out bus-for-train winding-up in Oslo Centre. The professionals believe that one cannot experience that thousands of rail customers for many months or perhaps many years are not going to get to them tomorrow and evening because Oslo Centre does not have the capacity to swallow away so many buses. This is advice from the competent professional body. We can choose even if we want to listen to them or not, but it is at least worth discussing – without just automatically rejecting them. One can of course say that this is information that Stortinget should have received last year. Then one can also say that this is information that the government should have received last year, because the information that the government had has also received the Stortinget. We should have wanted our colleges to know what they know about the basic conditions already when we got the basic material for NTP, but these basic drillings were carried out after the basic material was finished. There are things happening in projects that are at a sketch stage. When a person goes on to make construction drawings, sometimes it comes to information that can be unpleasant. The fact that this information was not available when a processed NTP, however, does not give us the luxury that we can ignore it. On the contrary. In any major construction project, we have to take over the information that comes. The fine thing is, after all, that now we get the information before one puts the spade in the ground. Then we can work on perfecting the project, talking to local politicians, talking to the entrepreneurs and seeing how we can do this in the best possible way. It would have been wrong if we didn't take the information to Stortinget – to the market, to say it like that – as we are now doing. It would have been wrong just to pretend like nothing and continue as before. It is also important to take this into account in the annual budget proposals and in the next roll-out of the national transport plan. Of course, I will come back to the Stortinge in the annual budget proposals with as much up-to-date information as possible on the projects that the Stortinge has dealt with, adopted and started to allocate money to – but also on the projects that the Stortinge has not dealt with, but nevertheless taken into account in the large picture of the national transport plan. So the discussion is how we handle new information. Does one maintain at the time aspect as the only one constant, keeps a firm hold of the costs as the only one fixed, or tries to strike a balance between them? How does a person manage a risk and ensure that a person does not go on a click after making a decision to start? It is enough to mention a moon landing plan, which was not entirely the moon landing many thought, to remind us that when professional advice indicates that this is not going the right way, politicians should go into the substance before one has done, not believe that one can just adopt it politically. At the same time, it's important not to create a situation around this where a gives the impression that now the whole NTP is in play. I have recorded that some in the political debate have given the impression that now one is being tricked, now everything is being scoffed at. Let me use the analogy to build a house. In this country we agree that we should build the house – not necessarily the Norwegian house, on which a former Prime Minister had ambition. So we've done construction drawings for what we're going to have, we've gotten pretty far into casting the base wall in many places, some places we're even invading the spaces. But then we're told that there are problems in the kitchen, that's a cost. I think most of us -- if we take it over to our privacy -- would say, if the cost of a kitchen project increased by 40-50 pst., that we have to think about this one more time -- not because we're going to build a house without the kitchen, but because we have to figure out how to solve the problem within the cost framework we've set ourselves. That's the problem we're facing right now. We're going to build the railway that's in the National Transport Plan, we just have to figure out, when it shows up information, how we can solve it without the cost of the kitchen making it impossible for us to invent some other rooms, because this is a total package that we have to get into. We're earned that we're trying to solve the problem in advance, early in a project, rather than rushing into surprises. I have already mentioned some sections where the main problems lie. There are two sections in the Sarpsborg area and a section on the Dovreban. In crowns and ears they amount to approx. 6.5 pst. of the total railway investment in the national transport plan. When someone gives the impression that the whole railway NTP is in play, we see that most of it is stuck. There's two major sections that we're talking about, and that's why I understand that in those regions it creates commitment. It's going to happen a lot, and a lot is going to be done in the next few years. There will be a new railway in place between Larvik and Porsground. It opens this year and reduces travel time by 20 minutes. It is an important part of the investment on the Westfold Railway to Skien. In 2021 we will complete the new double track between Oslo and Ski, Follobanen. This results in a 10 minute reduction in travel time between Oslo and the stations from Ski and south to the eastfold cities. Skiing is going to be closer to Oslo center than many of the districts of Oslo. It's going to be a revolution in the way people travel on that route, and it's going to change the perspective people have on where they can live and work. What's also a good bonus with what's happening on Follobanen is that when one opens up regional trains and long local trains running through the new tunnel, there will be more available capacity on existing railways. This means that one on today's eastern runway can have several departures covering the local areas between Ski and Oslo. It provides an almost t-track-like route offer where local trains from Ski and Oslo go so often that one doesn't need a timetable because the next train is always the same around the corner. It is worth bringing with it in this discussion, when someone gives the impression that now there are no improvements in offers from Oslo and down to Eastfold, but this will be one of the most important improvements in offers by all. Everyone benefits, whether you live in Halden or you live in Ski. The development of many InterCity routes in the East is well under way. In addition to the projects already started, we are launching the development of Sandbukta-Moss-Såstad on Østfoldbanen and Venjar-Eidsvoll-Langset on Dovrebanen in 2018. So there will be two new big projects starting in 2018. They won't be delayed. On the contrary, we're on track with them. We also propose a further development of the railway that allows for more departures to Tønsberg and Moss in 2024 and to Hamar in 2026. So one must not build completed double tracks to the full in order to get offer improvements, and that is also important. I think for the travellers there are how many departures, how often they go, which is the most important, not necessarily how the infrastructure is right where one sits in the train car on the road where one should. The development of the Vestfold track follows largely the progress made, with the completion of Nykirke-Barkåker in 2024 and Drammen-Kobbervikdalen in 2025. However, the complexity of the development of the Drammen-Gulskogen route makes it necessary to have a slightly longer construction period, and therefore both Bane NOR and the Directorate-General for Railways propose completion in 2025 for this project. In other words, there is a need for a slightly longer period of construction, but we are talking about a year's difference. So there's not a question of whether to build, but how fast. Planning the projects on the Eastfold Railway south of Moss has shown that the expansion is likely to have, as I have mentioned, significantly higher costs than what was used in the NTP for 2018-2029. Thus, there is no notified reduction in funding from the state that is the problem, but more knowledge and challenges in the implementation of the project. When we presented the national transport plan, the most recent cost estimate available for the development of Haug-Seut and Seut-Sarpsborg was just over 12 billion. kr. The current cost estimate, after drilling and other work, is over 20 billion. kr. So one has an increase of 12 billion. DKK to 20 billion kr. I believe that as the responsible state council, and as a responsible collapse, we are going into the project to find out how we can better use taxpayers' money and find other and better solutions – not because we are going to scrape the project, but simply because we have to do this. If we're going all the way to Halden, if we're going to get to Lillehammer, if we're going to get to the ski, if we're going to get to Hønefoss, if we're going to do everything north and south of Trondheim, etc., we need to get the money to go as far as we can. The railway directorate will therefore ask Bane NOR to look at cost-reduction measures on the route. It is important that professionals do a job, and it is important that local authorities, local businesses and entrepreneurs participate and contribute with their knowledge in order to find the best possible solutions. The aim of the Directorate is to obtain flat-rate clearance of the route during the first six-year period so that other developments can continue. Let me underline that, because in many of the places where we experience discussion, one local knows that it's still a few years before the railway comes, but sitting with tied space into eternity, one will have nothing of it. For us, it is important to ensure that – regardless of whether the railway comes in 2024 or 2026, in 2030 or 2032 in different places – we can quickly free up tied areas, because the faster urban development can be. Nothing would have been better than if those who are going to live and work near the railway station, the buildings have finished on the day the first train stops on a new and modern railway. Then we'll get more use of the railway and it'll be of greater use to the city. Updated costs of the Eastfold Railway must be worked on. They will at least be provided in the context of the roll-out of the national transport plan for 2022-2033. But it's like Bane NOR and the directorate have warned: with the information you have today, it's not realistic to hold on to the ambitions of double tracks to Fredrikstad in 2024 and Sarpsborg in 2026, but as mentioned, the travel time reductions and the benefits of a sheep from the Folloban tunnel will benefit them. We also want to work to see how to get a better offer for Moss and on all the other sections. I see that in some newspapers there is a given impression that nothing is going to happen to offer improvements until double tracks are physically finished in place. That's not necessarily the way we think about it. We think we'll see when there's free capacity on the tracks. Often, a cross-track or a partial double-track extension could give us the same frequency improvement as a continuation of double-tracks all the way into the station. I believe that the Directorate-General for Railways is following up NTP in a good way. It is important that we have a conscious relationship with costs, and that we do not accept any increase in costs without looking at the issues. In addition, it is important that we have a conscious relationship with the traffic that we need in and out of cities while the railway is under construction, and I think it should be a conscious relationship with how we can have contract strategies that make both Norwegian and other contractors want to compete for our contracts. In this period that we're going to expand the railway, there's also going to be a crazy lot of projects in the road sector, the coastal sector and airports. So there'll be a lot of contracts to compete over, and we have to make sure that everyone's interesting about the entrepreneurial market, that they can't pick and pick in someone, and then we're left with others that we don't get covered by good people, or just at a high price. That's a bit of the political debate that we need to have. We can always be disappointed that things didn't turn out like we hoped, but we have to listen to professional advice and find the best solutions. We know that both the Riksrevision and the control committee in this house have also been concerned that a project is being carried out in a good way, and therefore it is also important that the Stortinget gives a clear signal that we need to have a balance in the way we implement things, that we should be ambitious, but with that ambition it is also important to keep costs under control, not just to keep time frames. I think everyone should be sure that in this room I'll be in line first when it comes to being ambitious about doing things quickly, but I'll also make sure that we get it done completely. Although some investment projects are completed somewhat later than planned with what has now been presented, it is important to bear in mind that both on the Folloban and on the Mosse project have a major improvement, as I mentioned. On the Gjøvik track, a further phase-in of new trains will take place. It provides both increased capacity and greater comfort for travellers. The Railway Directorate proposes increased frequency and more customer-friendly scheduled times to Hakadal and Jaren in 2021 and hourly frequencies to Gjøvik in 2022. One will get improvements on the Kongswingerbahn by the fact that from 2020 there will be more take-offs with double trainsets. It will provide both increased capacity and better comfort. Work is also done on the Eastfold Railways from the Directorate of Railways, Bane NOR and Norwegian trains to quickly put in place the possibility of a better train offer. Both the possibility of longer trains, double deckers and several departures is assessed, and there is talk with different suppliers to see what is possible. There are also a number of smaller measures, which I should not mention. The Ringerix Railway is one of the railway projects that you might have dreamed about the longest without seeing the results. Proposals for a regulatory plan for the Ringeriksbanen and E16 shall be submitted for consultation during these days. It's an important milestone. We have come a long way in taking this project from being a vision to be something that is now to be built. The Directorate suggests that the construction of the Ringerix Railway begins in 2022, but this is the one project in which they indicate that an actual, by granting more money than what was in the NTP, can probably start up faster than 2022. In many of the other projects where I have pointed out that someone is not keeping the route, there is no lack of money, but it is more complicated than what you thought when you set up the timeframe. Here we also just have to stress that we're going to get one to 2021, that means that one has to give more money than the one that was provided in the national transport plan. Given that one should hold a frame of 327,5 billion. kr in the 12-year period, that means that that money will have to come from other projects, and that must also be a political discussion about whether or not you want it. There is no doubt that we have now come a long way in building the Ringerix Railway, and I am very pleased about that. The last estimate of the project shows a higher cost than the one set out in the NTP for 2018-2029, and in the same way as for projects on the Eastfold Railway, it is necessary that we review the costs to ensure that we have the best possible solution. For those who have participated in the media debate on the Ringeriksbanen, one will see that, among other things, is a discussion of the type of drive method to be used. It's important that there are professionals who have to make the decision, it's those who know the technology best, but it shows that there's a project that still works hard to figure out how to solve in the best possible way. Unlike in the past, we now have a national transport plan and an action programme that actually facilitates the construction of the Ringerix Railway. This means that the travel time between Oslo and Hönefoss or Oslo and Bergen is reduced by one hour. Add up to two trains an hour between Hønefoss and Oslo, and that once again means a region extension that is significant. There are also a number of measures being taken to extend train provision on the local train routes. From the Directorate-General for Railways, you are proposing to acquire more local train equipment so that the offer of trains on the sections near Oslo improves. On the lines called L1 and L2, which serve the suburban area between Asker, Lillestrøm and Ski, one today has almost 18 million travelers combined. In the run-up time, increased capacity is needed. Measured in number of passengers, these are the two most heavily worked train lines, and therefore more departures are needed. The Directorate-General for Railways proposes a new route model that will provide the interval of time for these trains. New trains and several departures on these routes will provide a lengthy lift for travelers from nearby areas such as Kolbotn and Holmlia. I think that's good reason to believe that during this national transport plan we could have ambitions of 100 million passengers on the rail. It's a strong growth. And once again, that's why we need to build and invest in the railway. But also outside Oslo and Eastern Europe, the Directorate for Railways proposes improvements. Railways have a special and important role, e.g.: on the Iron. The track shall be included at a block interval to also include Ganddal. We get a block interval at Bergen-Arna when a new Ulriken tunnel and Bergen-Fløen are finished in 2024. It is a measure that comes a little later than we hoped, simply because one has prioritised the progress of the urban railway project. Once again, it shows that different policy projects, both of which wish, conflict where one has to make a choice. The choice we have made has been to give priority to the Urban Railway. This does not mean that the project, in terms of the block interval of the railway, has been scrapped. It just takes a little longer before you can activate it. Modernisation of the Trønderbahn will continue in terms of both electrification, platform extension, new Leangen station and new trains. It provides reduced travel time and better comfort. Electrification of the treadmill has been one of the discussions that have shown how important it is that we actually take a breath in the ground to find better solutions. When one first presented this project, there was a large cost excess compared to what was in the NTP. In the numbers we get now, it looks like they've managed to deal with it. It shows that there is money to save on going one more round when needed. There is also a great deal of investment in the growth of goods. There is a package of goods in the national transport plan of about 18.5 billion. kr. It's the first time that's had the amount of a bet, and we also had a freight billion already in the previous four years to reinforce the work on rail and freight. I think that's some reason why we're now seeing those results. There will be a number of actions in terms of both new crossing tracks, expansion and construction of terminals and new links between different sections of the track. I think it's very exciting when we travel to North Norway and talk to the transport environments in Mo in Rana and the Lake of Mo, and they point to the swings in the interior as important to make the railway work with goods out of the country. This shows that even those involved in transportation see the whole picture. It also shows how important it is that one has an overall approach to a railway that is exceptionally efficient where it is well suited but requires one to have a system that sees the whole. The railway directorate provides for electrification of the Solørbahn, electrification of the Hamar-Elverum route on the Rørosbanen and proposes measures that would be a good thing for freight transport. I've gone through some of these different areas, just to remind you that even though the discussion gets very heated in terms of two of the routes, there's a lot going on on the railway that's in line with the plans. If one ignores the two sections of the Dovreban and the Eastfold Railway, it is over 90 pst. of the appropriations and plans we had, in the course. In it it is that we will continue to work where there are challenges. We have to find solutions, because we have to build up completely. But we also have to be aware that on some of the distances ahead in time, where one necessarily hasn't done all the basic research yet, there may be new problems again. Then we have to be dynamic and figure out how to solve it. We must be solution-oriented and not conflict-oriented. It has been a challenge over a long period of time that a person in the transport sector has had cost increases from the early stages of the plan – when projects are drawn, shown and excited – to actually having construction plans, putting the space in the ground and starting to pay the bills. When you make expectations about building something, I think it's very difficult for all politicians to come back and say that this was twice as expensive, we have to think about it again. This is precisely why it is important that we get more realistic cost estimates at an early stage, so that we can do more real priorities and not start planning processes where one either loses money or builds something on which one subsequently repents. I think building InterCity in the East is important. I think it was wrong when some parties in the election campaign said they would scrape railway projects in the East because one would rather spend money in the West. It's not because I'm not spending money on the West, but I just want to remind you that in the Swedish Road Authority's investment portfolio, it's the West that gets the most money in 2018. It is possible to give priority to different projects and to ensure that all regions develop without making it a geographical struggle. But at the same time, it is important that we create expectations that can be realized, where we have control of the projects and do not experience cost excesses that create both high media pressure, political consequences, and so on. Both the Børmer Committee, NOU 2015:14, and the Productivity Commission, NOU 2016: 3, point to challenges with cost increases in the planning of large government investment projects. Cost increases, as mentioned above, have often become extra high in early stages. We have therefore done a job to ensure that we avoid this kind of thing in the future – how we organisationally make sure that the railway is better run, that a get its own extension unit, Bane NOR, who in the next few years will work on how they are organized in their 2020 project, in order to be an even better builder, could make better use of the resources they have, could draw parallels between different projects and take in knowledge and experience with them. We've also worked a lot to get you to know better why you get cost increases in the planning phases. This is mentioned in, for example: the landfill message about NTP. We have also put in place more concrete measures to improve cost management at an early stage, and we have explained many of them in the national transport plan. For large projects, we will establish change logs from KS1 to KS2 with a description of the costs and consequences. For major projects, management objectives will be established after the adoption of the local authority plan, possibly before the start of the regulatory plan, where no local authority plan is to be drawn up. We have, as mentioned, expectations both in the way Path NOR organizes itself internally, and not least in the way they interact with the entrepreneurial sector to find cost-effective solutions that provide more rail for money. It might seem easy to say that, but I have great hopes that it can make some of the discussion we might get here today, yet not become so drastic when we get even more years on the back of preparing the projects that are far ahead of time, for construction. We've seen it with Nye Veier, who has a completely different form of contract from what you normally had, who has involved the entrepreneurs at a much earlier time, made sure that a user of their knowledge and competence, their diversity of ideas, to make the road projects better than we originally thought. By moving the road projects in the terrain a little bit up, a little bit down, a little bit away, a little bit here, a little bit there, you can find solutions that can both reduce it in length and, not least, reduce the need for long tunnels or long bridges. We also see that a number of places where one has done this job have reduced the degradation of food soils and so on, one gets better environmental perspectives. It's simply because one manages to have a dynamic along the way in the project where one ensures that several wise heads are involved, provides input and has flexibility and freedom to do so. It also means that we sometimes have to be a little more flexible in the work on regulation plans before we confirm that this is exactly the way it should be. The road service has also shown that this is possible. A number of projects have had large exceedances of costs, e.g.: E16 into Kongsvinger or E6 through Gudbrandsdalen. For the E6 Gudbrandsdalen and the project around Ringebu, there was a cost increase of 112 pst. It goes without saying that if a few people want to build everything you want, you have to keep costs under control. After we got both Vegvesenet and Nye Vejer to re-evaluate this, not only do they “grow” the same numbers, but look at the project – whether we can build it in another way, organize it in another way – they came back with cost savings in the billions class on each of those projects. There is no reason to believe that we cannot also find such a potential on part of the railway projects. That's why it's important that we keep working with Bane NOR, with the entrepreneurial market and the contract strategies, but sometimes we have to spend some time, so that we get this to happen. This is about managing the community's resources, and we can't close our eyes or ignore new knowledge. The Railway Directorate’s action plan specifies how NTP for 2018-2029 should be implemented. Professional assessments based on up-to-date knowledge are based on what the directorate has provided. It is still such that we can politically discuss which posts are going to be put deeper into the ground? Is this the time bar? Is that the cost bar? Is it the soil protection post? Is it the local environment, or is it urban development? Is it security, or is it the development of the Norwegian entrepreneurial market? The challenges, how deep each pole should be when we're going to make our priorities, don't disappear even if we don't hear them later. I am sure that through good cooperation we can achieve a good InterCity development in the East, a good development of the Jærbanen and Sørlandsbanen, great investments on the railway to Bergen, Vossebanen, not least, and on Trønderbanen. I just traveled with the Salt pendulum and the Nordlandsbanen. Only four days ago, Bane NOR signed a contract with Siemens for the development of a new signalling system. I'm referring to the Northern Railway because there's a section where one still sends the trains on by using the green flag. So we haven't had a lighting system on parts of the distance from Bodø to the lake. It says a little bit about the challenges that we have and that we're going to solve. Now there's a signed contract with Siemens for $5. kr, one has signed a contract with Thales, with Alstom and others. Over 20 B.C.E. kr shall be used to renew our signalling systems. It's a signal about a railway on which it's invested. That there are problems on some sections, don't take away the focus from the fact that it's actually a broad reinforcement of the railway that's going to happen in the next few years. That both the Railway Directorate and Bane NOR give many of the same advice, I believe is heavy and must be listened to. But I still hope that in the rounds that come – this is at the hearing – we get good input that allows us to find even more ideas on how to avoid problems. I must also stress that the Railway Directorate has given high priority to maintenance and renewal. We have years behind us, decades, where the railway has not been maintained, where the maturity has increased. We've turned that around. The appropriations have been doubled, but it is still such that we have a great job to do. That's also part of the political priority we have to do: how much money are we going to spend on what we have? How much are we going to spend on what we want? I think very many of us want a well maintained railway, and in some places we also need to build capacity. It's InterCity, among other things. It's about. The most important thing is to find solutions to ensure that those who are customers on the railways, the business community who have to carry goods and not least that those who are commuters and who depend on the railways in and out of cities each day receive a travel offer as quickly and as best as possible. Then it's more than just the rails. This is about train sets, signalling systems and capacity. One must not always build double tracks completely in order to have that capacity increase. It's worth including in the discussion, so you don't think when you don't get double tracks, you don't get offer improvements. That's what one does. The Folloban Tunnel is an important contribution to this. So there are many big and even more small measures. The two projects that now face challenges, the Dovrebanen and the Eastfold Railway, represent – to be precise – 6.8 pst. of the total allocation needs of the plan programme. It's also worth remembering when to try to give a picture of how much of the NTP that is actually followed up on the railway, how much that is actually going to happen, and how much it is to enjoy. To go back to the picture of the house: I think most people enjoy getting a new house with more toilets than the one one had where one was before, with a larger and better kitchen than the one where one was before. Although there are problems in the kitchen department, that doesn't mean that one stops building on the rest of the house. That doesn't mean that the house isn't going to be a good home. I believe that in the years ahead, more and more people will experience that the railway meets the transport needs in everyday life, ensuring that the customer satisfaction development that has been good will continue. We're going to be involved and make sure that this progress is made in the best possible way. We will ensure that the Storting is informed about the projects they have adopted and the developments that are taking place. We will ensure that, in the case of the projects currently being planned, where the Storting has not taken formal decisions, they will nevertheless be given a clear status through our budgetary proposals, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2710	Under the second paragraph of Section 45 of Storting’s Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that a brief comment round be opened limited to a contribution of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final submissions from the Council of State. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2715	The Minister of Transport is usually a man of the great words, also on the pulpit of the Storting. But after hearing him talk for almost an hour, I must say that I have rarely heard him as spat as today. I must say that I am surprised, and I am disappointed by what we have now heard. The Minister of Transport had two choices in Stortinget today: either he could say that the railway should be built as provided by Stortinget, or he could say that they have this in mind, and that is not certain it will be as the Stortinget has said. I thought he had chosen the first approach, but then he chose the last. So the Minister of Transport and the Government are not sure if they should do as the Storting has said. In our parliamentary system, it is such that the government implements what is decided by the Storting. In 2013, the Stortinget addressed the national transport plan. There was InterCity expansion in the East with double tracks to Halden, Lillehammer and Skien in 2030 one of the most important things. As part of full InterCity expansion, it was said that double tracks would be completed to Fredrikstad, Hamar and Tønsberg in 2024. Later, the Ringerix Railway to Hønefoss has arrived as the fourth InterCity route. Then there was a new NTP treatment in 2017, more specifically on 19 June, and that was less than ten months ago. Once again, Stortinget says that internal InterCity, i.e. double tracks to Fredrikstad, Hamar and Tønsberg, will be completed in 2024. There was nothing Big Thing just found out. No, it's black on white, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the government of Melding. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of 21 October I checked as late as today, once again, and there was no indication of doubt or uncertainty about these projects and the year 2024. I have also taken the freedom to go through press releases from the election campaign. There was little doubt when the Minister of Transport and his party traps traveled around Eastfold, Westfold, Buskerud and Hedmark, and it was only six months since this was promised by the Minister of Transport. Everyone understands that things can happen with individual projects, single sections. But the picture cannot change so completely in a few months. Nearly the whole investment portfolio of the railway sector has turned upside down with major changes. Norwegian railway is currently out of control, and it's understandable, as we see now, with a number of new companies, units and corporations popping up. The company Norske Tog owns the trains. The company Mantena maintains the trains. The company Entur sells tickets. NSB is driving the trains – as long as we get to say, because now the government wants many companies to run trains. Then we have the Railway Directorate, Bane NOR and probably even more. Now all these different units can owe each other, and the Minister of Transport owes us, we now listened to the different units, companies and companies – when he doesn't owe the red-green ones, because it's usually the ones that are responsible for the problems that exist. For Stortinget, the responsibility lies with the Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen for the chaos we now see, just one place. What is now happening is sad – terrible sadness – not primarily for the Stortinget, for the big business representatives, or for the government and all the underlying agencies. No, it's sad for the travelers, who probably have a slightly different sense of reality and understand the state of things in some other way than what we heard the Minister of Transport present here earlier. It is sad for those travelling on the Eastfold Railway, on the Westfold Railway, on the Dovre Railway, on the Tronder Railway, on the Fosse Railway or on the Jærbanen, by the way, that the train has stood today. It is sad for the business community, the forest and timber industry and others who carry goods by rail. It's sad that we have a government and a Minister of Transport who don't have the ability to build the railway as promised. [[The President clubs.]] Finally, I would like to put forward a proposal. I would suggest that the statement be annexed not only to the Minutes but to the Transport and Communications Committee for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2738	The President will recall that the representatives should deal with the speaking time allocated. The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2745	Let me first thank the Council of State for a thorough presentation. I think it's worth taking with me in the introductory part of the round we're going to have now. We all experience frustration when proposed changes in the implementation of large-scale transport projects. When the Directorate-General for Railways now recommends a different progress from that adopted in the National Transport Plan for some of the InterCity development projects, it is not a desired situation for anyone. It is quite common for transport modes to specify the implementation of the national transport plan in an action programme. It's part of the ordinary process. The state road authority presented its action programme earlier this year, and now it is the Directorate for Railways that is presenting it. The action programme for the Railway Directorate has been consulted, with a deadline of 22 June. It is important that all railway users make good use of the consultation period. Professional advice from both the Railway Directorate and the Bane NOR weighs heavily, but at the same time it is important to listen to the recordings that come into the consultation process. InterCity expansion is an important project for a lot of people. Therefore, it is demanding when the Directorate-General for Railways proposes a different pace of implementation for parts of InterCity, which means that not all sections can be completed by 2024, as the national transport plan suggests. It's not about lack of money, because it's more than ever committed to both maintenance and investment in the railway. It has produced results in terms of a strong growth in the number of travelers in the period, unlike what it might sound like when we listen to the representative Myrli. The transport budget has increased by more than 60 pst. Since 2013 and we intend to continue this effort in the next budgets. However, if we are to implement the national transport plan, we must also keep the cost level down. That is why we have carried out important reforms in the transport sector that provide more way and way for money. There must and must be strict cost management requirements in all projects. The customer is placed in the centre, and there have been continuous improvements in capacity and frequency in recent years. Customer satisfaction was record high in 2017 – the highest in many years. It's really worth taking with us when we hear the misery description of the railway that some people like to drive. There are also plans for further improvements in supply, particularly in the Eastern region. The ambition must be to implement the projects adopted in the National Transport Plan in spring 2017. The most important thing we can do to do is build cost-effectively and smartly. The goal must be to realise the projects we adopted in the NTP, as quickly as practical and economic implementation is possible – for the benefit of travellers and for those who need to transport goods. I would like to make a small comment on the proposal by the representative of Myrli and the Labour Party. We do not intend to oppose this being transmitted to the Transport Committee for further consideration, but I think it is a little strange to start dealing with a matter which is initially linked to a document that is out for consultation. It will be difficult to deal with and deal with it reasonably before the consultation process is concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2762	I want to start by thanking the Council of State for a thorough and lengthy presentation. Of course, we in the Progress Party are also sorry that information has emerged after the Stortingen has adopted the National Transport Plan, but it may seem that the Workers' Party is no longer believed to have ambitions. It has the Progress Party, and it has the government – no doubt. If we had followed the pace the Labour Party had in the period until 2013, we would have been far behind. Everyone knows that there are enormous sums in planning materials – well over 2 billion. kr only for planning in 2018. It is also negotiated in Stortinget, the appropriations have increased every year, and you have received what you asked for. Thus, the size and government have at least done what is possible to set the level of ambition on the map and get things done. What I miss a little bit, especially from the Workers' Party, is focus. For you have agreed, all the cross-parties – apart from the Centre Party, which may think too much money is being spent on rail in the East – that you should build double tracks, but the most important thing is at least to bring down your travel time and raise your capacity in those areas. It's the customers who are going to travel. I don't think, as the representative Sverre Myrli says from the pulpit, that the customers are frustrated. Customers are busy travelling. If there is a need for cross-rails to be built in order to raise the capacity, reduce driving time and get up the speed, it must be good – that’s what the customer is busy about. In the case of planning, yes, much has to be planned – precisely for those living along the routes to know whether or not their homes are affected by the line. It's important. For those who own businesses, it is important to clarify: Should my business still exist, lie where it is today, or should something happen to it? In the municipalities affected, in urban areas, it is important to drive urban development and development of the municipality to know where the line is going. We have to do everything we can to make this happen as quickly as possible, but in the best possible way. Path NOR has previously said that if they could plan and build in the long term, as they do now, they could save 10-15 pst. But now, when Bane NOR also says that they, like New Roads, drag in the contractors, you have the opportunity to further reduce costs. It's not wrong. But that the level of ambition is fixed is quite clear. I am concerned that we put the customer in focus. I have not heard a single customer – and I live in Westfold – who is concerned about who owns and operates, the customers are busy getting to and from work. They are concerned that there is room on the train. They are busy bringing down the driving time and could take the train back and forth. It's going to be solutions. Yes, some adjustments will be made. At least I am sure that new knowledge will be taken seriously, but that does not mean that we should lower the level of ambition – on the contrary. If there is one government that is betting on transportation, it is precisely this government, with the cooperation parties. It's a formidable bet. It's not to be reversed. We should not lower the level of ambition, but we must also listen to professional input – if it is the case that the Workers' Party has representatives who know much more than the trade unions. It's clear that when both Bane NOR and the Directorate of Railways say the same thing, we're going to listen. Then we have to optimise the conditions so that we can build as quickly as possible. I do not think Minister for Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen will put the handcuff on – on the contrary. I am absolutely sure the Minister for Transport agrees with me on that. If there's someone who pushes on to get money and spend the money that's spent in the NTP, it's Ketil Solvik-Olsen. For the Advance Party, the customer, travel time and capacity are important, and travel time is going to decrease, even with adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2783	Thank you to the Council of State for your distribution. It was an arrangement that showed very clearly the problems of the railway reform and the development of the level of the directorate: responsibility awaits. Last year, the Stortinget dealt with the national transport plan, with a rather high rail framework. Although the frame was high, the department had already pushed the InterCity bet. In the previous national transport plan treatment, in 2013, even the Council of State believed that 2025 was the right year to complete the entire InterCity development. Almost all the parts of this room accepted the adjusted InterCity progress plan that was submitted. It is therefore critical that the underlying bodies of the Ministry do not follow the plan agreed by the Stortinget, a plan based on just information from the Department and the former Railway Agency. There has also been a strong desire from this room to increase the volume of goods on the road, and the parcel of goods in the NTP was well received. For my area, Hedmark and Uppland, the development of the timber terminal has been a priority, especially with the extension of the capacity of the terminal on Kongswinger, which is now detonated. This expansion has now been stamped with great uncertainty about the performance. Yesterday we read in the VG that the director of Bane NOR stated that Stortinget's plan, which is based on government information, is "irrational". There's reason to ask whether the council thinks the plan is irrational. If the Council of State thinks so, it is alarming that such major changes in progress will not be made until after the collapse option. Before the elections, the Council of State took out a great deal of promises about just progress and implementation, and today it is said that it is not so precise when the development of transport is completed. What makes this case so important is also that the progress and divisional use associated with InterCity in the national transport plan is so leading for the rest of the transport plan. These projects bind up large parts of the government funds planned for transport. That's 327.5 billion. kr for railway investments during the NTP period, and the Railway Directorate claimed yesterday, just like Bane NOR, that if one is to stick to the frame and the annual distribution, many projects must be shifted. One might then ask whether the Stortinget had a good enough basis when dealing with the National Transport Plan 2018–2029, because the Minister now sees that there are professionals who have now been reckoned with and controlled the plans adopted here in Stortinget. The shift in time and the costs involved will be reflected in the contents of the nearly half of the plan. The fact that the Council of State is now coming and explaining itself is in its place, but here it is appropriate to ask whether the Storting should not take up everything now until the decision on NTP that the Storing did last year, when so much of the plans are changed by the Council of State and its budgets. How do the State Councils now assess the follow-up to the Storting National Transport Plan? It is obvious that one does not now intend to follow him up. There are many people who want a better rail service. There are many people who want it to be more conservative. And there's a lot of people who believed they'd get the big railway bet that's signed. So this hall last year, when the national transport plan was discussed. So now we get another signal from the Directorate of Railways and the Minister responsible. This is alarming. For this reason, the Central Party believes that the Council of State must now consider presenting a new, revised national transport plan, when so much is changed without the Storting being told. We do not get this case to be dealt with without asking to have her on the table again. The Central Party therefore supports the proposal put forward by the representative of Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2802	The background to the Council of State's statement was that the entire opposition here in the hall, including the Christian People's Party, got a pick-up when Bane NOR made his contribution to the directorate's action programme. Quite immediately, in the form of a letter, it was asked that the Council of State come to explain. We in SV have not just been reassured after the action programme was in place, and after hearing the State Council's comments on it, both in the press and here today. There's two important points here. Firstly, the political and the principle: should it be that the Storting has not updated information on what is realistic to implement by the railway operation when NTP is addressed? It is the most important document for Norwegian transport, and it was dealt with barely ten months ago. The InterCity bet was mentioned 45 times in this staging message. Even when the state budget for 2018 was treated about four months ago, there were new signals. No alarming information was given to the Stortinget that the beautiful objectives that had just been adopted could not be achieved. Did the Council of State know which way this led, that the rate of expansion was set too high, and/or that the capacity for planning and development was too poor – or that the money bag was too small all the time? Did he know that during the NTP treatment, or did he know it only during the election campaign? Or has he just got along with it? It could have been nice to know when the Council of State got this new information. Or does the Council of State not have control over its own offices? I may be naive, but does he not ask for reports to ensure that the Storting has the latest information on what is to be adopted? Secondly, once the Council of State has painted itself so emphatically into a corner, there is room for considering all the priorities. SV has proposed that he should transfer both funds and planning capacity from some of the major motorway projects to InterCity. He must not be so religious in view of his four-field highways that the InterCity bet cannot continue as planned. It expects not only SV, but also all those who have dreamed of more frequent departures and a vacant seat on their commuter train to the city. In my county, the Ringerix Railway gets another year's suspension. First it was 2018, then it was 2019 – then it was even served marzipan cake at Sundvollen. Then it became 2021 and now – truly my hat – 2022. This is the situation for several distances now, and it just doesn't matter. It cannot be presented as a joyous news that Bane NOR's great delays have been made a little less late for the Ringerix track. When Bane NOR's recording became known, State Council Solvik-Olsen commented on this as a useful input. Yes, I promise. It was useful, but not just useful. It was crucial and serious recordings, I would say. I would ask the Council of State to think carefully through its responsibility here, because I can't see that there have been new, big assumptions that would have meant that he has not been able to have an overview and have been able to inform the Storting before the NTP process and the budgetary procedure. I notice the magic word "ground drilling". It's been used a lot when you exceed the budgets, and I'm getting tired of the reference to ground drilling. Perhaps those wells would have been done a little earlier, or at least they should have been informed that the Storting had the relevant decision-making basis. We see in Bane NOR's play, which is also a lead for the action program, that planning capacity and entrepreneurial capacity can be scarce to build all of these InterCity sections more or less simultaneously. This in turn will lead to higher prices, and this will also put pressure on the plant industry. In its programme of action, however, the road system only refers to the entrepreneurship sector. As far as I can see, they say that the large projects have stimulated good growth in the entrepreneurial sector. The question to the Council of State is then: When the two departments consider this so differently, is it not the task of the Council of State to coordinate this? Is it not then the task of the Council of State to assess how far it is going to have a transfer of capacity from one sector, i.e. the motorway projects, to the railway? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2821	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2827	I would also like to say that I support the proposal of the representative, Sverre Myrli, that the matter should be sent to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2832	Then the representative was allowed to say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2837	First, the need for maintenance. The Council of State mentioned during its nocturnal but good points that there was a very great need for the means of maintenance that were granted and that have increased considerably in recent years – the left has been a contributor to it – to maintain the amount of passenger and not least the amount of freight carried on the Norwegian network. Imagine that there are now 76 million passengers a year on the railway, and just a few years ago it was less than 70, down to 66 million! And we don't have one of them to lose. We cannot lose any passengers, and we cannot lose any freight trains. We have to increase all the time because the amount of goods and the number of people in this country is increasing, but not least because this is a term in the green shift. Going over to being able to take a train instead of driving a car is just ahead of the green shift. It is such that I have to admit that when I saw the press release from the Directorate of Railways yesterday, the first thing I saw was how it was in my state, with the Trander Railway. Is it realisable at all? Because we had so much exceedances in the state budget. It is very good that the modernisation of the Trunder Railway can fortunately be implemented technically, and that the Railway Directorate recommends that it can be implemented by 2023. There are also many other train sections – Bergensbanen, Jærbanen, Gjøvikbanen, we are talking about electrification of the Rørosbanen from Hamar to Elverum and more. But the big Achilles heel is InterCity, of course. It's not good that you don't implement the plan on all the routes there, but what the left does seem to be incredibly important is that we put the internal areas into place according to the plan. Then we think of the fields Asker, Oslo, Lillestrøm, Ski. There are 18 million passengers. They're the ones who use the train every day, depending on the fact that it's actually a train that takes them to work every day. They use it as their collective system and maybe they just have it as an alternative. There we get a clear improvement by keeping up the capacity and also increasing the frequency. So I think that several speakers have been involved here that it is very important that, although not all the double tracks and perhaps not all the expansions are completed, it is possible to increase the capacity and frequency quite strongly in the phase we are in – under construction. That's why I think when Councillor Solvik-Olsen mentions a target of 100 million within a few years regarding the number of passengers on Norwegian railway, it's an ambitious, correct and important goal. The left does not fully see why we are going to deal with the railway directorate's plan in the committee, because now it is going to be consulted. We really hope that the hearing might show us an even more potential for new projects and savings. But that the Committee should examine it is not a particular matter for the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2850	InterCity expansion is important because it is forward-looking. Not only is it forward-looking, it is also absolutely necessary. It's a comprehensive project. This is precisely why clear objectives, clear decisions and tight political follow-up are important. In 2012, the Railway Agency considered InterCity to be a ten-year extension. The assumptions at the time were that parallel deployments with project funding were established through a separate project organisation. That was not the case, and InterCity has been the subject of long discussions and political struggles. In 2017, decisions were made on a financing plan and a tempo plan that the department thought was realistic and professionally well thought about. Now there is doubt about realism. If we are to succeed in these large and complex development projects, the objectives must be clear to all. We need to know what we're up against. The direction must be set at the moment when the decisions are taken. Then, of course, there will be new moments along the way. We always know that increases in costs and unforeseen obstacles will come – of course they will. But now it is less than one year – ten months – since the adoption of the national transport plan. So information that should have been available when the decision was taken is only now. Talks include: on ground conditions. It's almost as if you don't believe your own ears – that this is coming now. And it comes from the environments that have just been tasked with providing the premise for the political decisions. Maybe it's too much to ask, but one should expect the facts underlying the assessments to stand for more than ten months. With the population growth we get in the next few years, it is absolutely vital that we build the transport system based on ambitious but realistic plans. We have to look forward to planning transport solutions. If we don't dimension the transport system in line with the forecasts, it just gets too tight about the place. We need to develop the transport system by building new ones, while at the same time it is important that we take care of what we have. Railway in the InterCity area is a very important part of this. There has been a change of pace in the transport policy since the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party were given a majority in the Stortinget. With a new government and a new majority in 2013, the four parties were given the opportunity to realise the visions that we have developed together over time. Our common transport policy was linked to the renewal of the sector, such as: were reflected in the national transport plan for 2014-2023, when all the lots were in opposition. At the government change in 2013, we were given the opportunity to insert a new gear, and we have done so. Councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen has been at the forefront of a new and ambitious policy, with the bulk of the population in the back. He has done that job in an exemplary way so far. Reforms are in progress in several fields, with the support and participation of the Christian People's Party. Large and small measures contribute to the renewal of the sector, and people notice differences. The development of the railways in the Central East region was and is an important part. Now we see that there is considerable doubt in the professional community as to whether it is possible to achieve the agreed objectives, including funding and timetable, first through the input from Bane NOR and now through the proposal for a programme of action from the Directorate. Now, when I hear the State Council's statement, and he thinks that the Railway Directorate is following up the NTP in a good way, I have to say, unfortunately, that this is not good enough. This doesn't last. The mandate of the Council of State is clearly given by the Stortinget, and we assume that the objectives are met. It would be very strange if the information provided by the Ministry just one year ago did not prove to be consistent with the objectives set. Then the Council of State has solved a serious problem. Let me say that in clear terms: when it comes to progress in the expansion of InterCity, the Christian People's Party is laying the foundation on what the Stortinget has decided. The decision of the Grand Duchy is based on the proposal put forward by the Government. The investigation of the case is based on the information provided by the Ministry at that time. It is the task of the Ministry to ensure that progress is maintained. It is the responsibility of the Council of State and the Government to ensure that the budgets are then dimensioned. We have a very committed minister. We think he's doing the job this time too, but now it's about keeping the speed up, keeping a firm grip on the situation and making sure the progress Stortinget has decided. The Christian People's Party will not support the proposal of the Workers' Party since this has now been sent to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2869	It is with interest that I have heard the debate. It is also with a little wonder that I have heard the opposition's description of the railway. So we have a situation with several travelers, higher satisfaction, doubling maintenance, tripling of planning work and several projects under construction – two of them will start in 2018. And then you give the impression that everything is black. I don't understand. That one may be disappointed that one has now received information that suggests that some projects are more complicated to implement than we hoped, I understand, but when one draws a complete black image of everything else, it reminds more of a desire for a political polemics than trying to make the railway good. National transport plan is a document for coordinating plans. That means there's different maturity on the projects. It's a message. It is not a proposition in which all projects within it are automatically adopted and to be financed. There we come back to Stortinget with the concrete projects when the projects are ready to build, mature, and one knows exactly what it's going to cost. We don't know that for projects to be completed in 2024, 2026 or later than that. Being able to remember the difference between a proposition and a notification is important in how to deal with it later. But let me just stress that none of the adopted IC projects, none of the projects for which Stortinget has adopted the cost and governance framework, are delayed. Everyone has the progress they're going to have. Over many of those that will be available in the next few years, we have the same full control. But in the case of those projects that have been more immature, which have been further ahead in time, and which we continue to obtain information about, for example. Where we are going to build them has now come up with information that there are challenges on a few lines. And then the opposition gives the impression that that's why everything rages. No, there's two sections we have to work especially on to get fixed again. Then there was a statement here that one had not got the right information at the time of the decision of the national transport plan. Well, the Storting had the same information as the government had. The basic drilling we referred to was done in the period after the basic documents came, even while we were still dealing with NTP. When that information comes, we have two choices. We can relate to it, or we can stick our heads in the sand. Putting your head in the sand is a bad solution. It gave us no moon landing in Mongstad anyway, and there was a lot of professional advice along the way that said we should do it another way to succeed. The red-green government refused to hear, for that did not fit with the political decisions. We must not make the same mistake again with our railway – just walk forward, no matter what professional advice comes along. We have to discuss the input that comes to figure out how to do this as best as possible. I'm not going to crash the railroad. I'm going to make sure it flies higher into the future, and not that we make dogmas that don't fit reality, and then refuse to relate to reality. I think it is a little sad when some in the opposition do not show the willingness to take over the information and give back some signals about what is important. How are we going to solve this, so that the money goes all the way up? I'm going to promise that there's one person who's going to be the first to make sure that InterCity is implemented, and he's the one who's on the pulpit right now. For this is important for the East, and it is important for the country. I think it's a little strange that one – when one heard the Workers' Party say in the election campaign that one had to get better cost control – is here and cares about what things cost. And even when we say that here we probably have to change the project, it's irrelevant, one should build it just like one thought one could do it a few years ago. When the Central Party was running election campaigns, they wanted to stop railway projects in the East to spend the money in other parts of the country. Now one will suddenly take money from other parts of the country to build a railway in the East. The fact that SV wants to scrape road projects to build the railway is not surprising. But I just repeat what I said in my introduction: to these sections there is no lack of money. These are simply new challenges that we have to solve. Progress here is not due to a lack of government appropriations. This is about that we have to do it a different way than we thought. There is information that neither the government nor the Stortinget had access to, because the job was not done. Why didn't a ground drilling long ago? Well, we can start with concept selection investigations where one is going to do all the projects so that one has the construction drawings ready before one selects the concepts, but then we're going to spend a long time before we come up with a single new project. We have to accept some kind of risk in projects when we start them and put them into a larger context. But we also have to deal with new information before we make the final decision on what we're building. I hope the round we have had now, makes it visible in a good way that this government has not intended to put on a single handcuff. This is something we have to give money to, but we have to make sure that we treat taxpayers' money with respect. We must ensure that professionals are in charge, in line with the NTPs we have adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2894	The President would point out that the expression «feeling the cat about» is hardly a good parliamentary expression. The President allows the representative, Mr Helge Orten, to give the floor for a brief explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2901	I said in my post that we would consider supporting the transmission to the Committee for further consideration. In view of the fact that the full presentation is based on a document that is still being consulted and will be at the hearing until 22 June, we do not consider it appropriate. That is why we will be voting against that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2908	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. As there are two procedural proposals for the presentation, we will come back to it during the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2924	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2941	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2952	After it had been called to vote, said Councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen will transfer 10 kgl. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2965	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2973	In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e2982	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–5, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6, 8 and 9, by Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Centre Party and SV proposal No 10, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be set up to investigate measures to strengthen our digital defence capability without opening up mass surveillance of Norwegian citizens.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3014	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6, 8 and 9 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that very sensitive personal data are stored and operated in Norway.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to clarify whether the law on the intelligence service § 3 allows metadata to be collected and to operate in the air section communications mode.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to investigate and come back to the Storting with proposals for metadata collection conditions, storage length and how the data are to be used under the Intelligence Service Act, including a system of authorisation of the court for the collection and storage of such metadata, and authorisation for use’.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3043	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the state annually monitors the digital security culture of the population. Knowledge must serve as a basis for decision-making by the authorities and for advice and recommendations given to the population and small businesses in order to reduce digital vulnerability.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an overview of the status, challenges and possible privacy hazards and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure the integration of ICT security as a mandatory part of all ICT study programmes at the bachelor level.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that systems that handle data related to national security interests are operated from Norway.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for a stepping-up plan for the National Safety Authority and the e-Service in order to ensure more resources, increased competence and better coordination between the actors in the cyber defence.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3083	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that information related to national security interests is stored and operated in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3167	It shall be counted over II, III, IV, VII, VIII, IX and X. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3181	It shall be added to I, V, VI and XI. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3195	It is added over XII.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3209	During the debate, Mr Eide put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to set up a Data Protection Commission for Children and Young People or otherwise to ensure that the privacy of children and young people is given a separate seat in the forthcoming Data Protection Commission adopted in the Government Platform.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3233	The Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced support for the vote. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3247	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Solvency Horne on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party proposal No 3, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3266	The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3280	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the following of NOU 2016:9 to return to Stortinget with an assessment of the need to amend the legislation so that the compensation scheme covers victims of violence from older cases.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3297	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks in the context of the follow-up to NOU 2016: 9 to ensure that the compensation scheme includes victims of violence from older cases and resumption cases.’; All the other parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3316	During the debate, Mr Vågslid has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to work actively to ensure that the role of the international human rights and the European Court of Human Rights in respect of and safeguarding the fundamental freedoms and rights of individuals is not impaired, including that the role of the EMD as a review mechanism is not restricted’. [[EMD]] The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3333	It shall be put to the vote on the proposal for a representative:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3345	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3370	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Eirik Faret Sakariassen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to emphasise the positive experience of closer follow-up to sick leave in negotiations for a new IA agreement.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3403	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to extend and extend the self-explanatory procedure for disease for up to one year, with closer follow-up from managers at the workplace in case of disease, in order to gather more knowledge and assess the possibility of introducing the scheme on a country-by-country basis. The size assumes that there will be funding for thorough post-trial follow-up research.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3424	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Tore Storehaug on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide for the establishment of a supervisory system with associated penalties to ensure that businesses follow up the statutory obligation to establish and maintain compulsory occupational pensions for their employees.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3450	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 4 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government asks the Government to extend the rules on working conditions in public service contracts to include occupational retirement provision.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The budget asks the government to propose the necessary legislative changes that ensure equivalent pension schemes irrespective of the type of operation and that ensure employees the right to retain at least the same good pension benefits as before, in the case of privatisation and outsourcing of public tasks, activities and support functions [[cleanness, etc.]] The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3474	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider setting up a supervisory regime with associated penalties to ensure that businesses follow up the statutory obligation to establish and maintain compulsory occupational pensions for their employees.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3493	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider how to prevent the use of tenders in the public sector, including in the case of transfer of business and change of supplier, from weakening the pension conditions of employees.’;» The Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3517	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3529	Thus, the setting has been invalid.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3534	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3539	And then we'll do the vote again, so we're sure it's going to be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3561	During the debate we just had, some speakers said that they do not want the Directorate-General for Railways' investment programme to be dealt with in the Committee. I would like to make it clear that this is not what we have proposed. We have therefore proposed that the statement be sent to committee under Section 45 of the Rules of Procedure. Well, at least I'm glad the president got it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3566	Then we can go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3581	Case No. 11 and 12 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to legislative acts 46 and 47. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-10.ana.ud485e3753	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
