ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e28	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e33	On behalf of Audun Lysbakken, Solfrid Lerbreck, Freddy André Hövstegård and myself, I would like to make a proposal on permanent employees temporary workers for better well-being and safer jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e38	The representative, Mr Solfrid Lerbreck, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e43	On behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I would like to make a proposal with ten specific points on how to make the fight against labour crime simpler and more effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e48	The representative, Mr Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e53	I would like to make a representative proposal on behalf of the representatives of Anette Trettebergstuen, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Jonas Gahr Støre, Hadia Tajik and myself on a publicly and ideally driven child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e58	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e63	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Nicholas Wilkinson and myself to lay down the Broadcasting Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e69	The representative, Mr Ingarill Olsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e74	On behalf of Sverre Myrli, Kirsti Leirtrø, Øystein Langholm Hansen and myself, I would like to make proposals to ensure that professional responsibility for the planning of ports and fairgrounds lies with the Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e79	The representative, Steinar Ness, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e84	On behalf of the big-time representatives Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Knut Arild Hareide, Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal that the educational reform in the defence will be presented as a matter of course in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e89	The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e94	On behalf of Geir Jørgen Bekkewold and myself, I would like to propose a review of public redress and compensation schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e99	The representative, Mr Jørgen Bekkewold, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e104	On behalf of the representatives of Oluk V. Bollestad, Hans Fredrik Gruvan and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for language training to cash beneficiaries and the removal of the five-year housing requirement related to the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e109	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e125	On Monday the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Monica Mæland, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Jon Georg Dale will meet for oral Question Time. The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. We will then begin with the first main question, which is from the representative of Ingelill Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e132	My question goes to the Minister of State. The majority of the population has forced Troms and Finnmark to join in two rounds. The state politicians in the two counties have tried to reach a voluntary agreement. It failed. It ended up with a mediation man, and a deal was signed. This agreement boiled the minds of Finnmark, and the requirement to reject the agreement was out of the question. The Finnmarks rightly feel that collapse and government have overrun the county and its inhabitants – drawing a map without listening to those involved, and with a result that is a completely unfunctional giant state. The responsibility for the merger rests on the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, but the challenges and despair associated with this are bearing finnmarks. In the light of the reactions in Finnmark and the expected no from Finnmark County to the negotiated agreement, will the State Council itself take responsibility for the majority's coercive decision and not leave implementation to state politicians opposed to the merger?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e143	The representative actually said the important words that the Stortinge has adopted. I am aware that during the previous period the Stortinge adopted new states – in which there is also a merger of Troms and Finnmark. So after the election, this magnification dealt with a matter of a possible reversal of that decision. It didn't get a majority. That means that a democratically elected magnification, our highest elected body, both in the previous period and during this period, has decided that Troms and Finnmark should be merged. Then it is actually my job and my duty as a member of the government to ensure that that decision is followed up and that it is implemented. Right now I'm waiting for the county councils in Troms and Finnmark to make their decisions. That will be the next week, and then we will have to come back to the matter when we see the outcome of the county council decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e148	I record the answer, but I think that the majority and its minister are responsible for good and sound processes that do not cause even greater problems. Finnland is the country's largest state in the area and the smallest in the population. One such opposite says something about problems related to making the county or regions even bigger. The coercive Troms and Finnmark will be three times the area of the Week. When the law of division says that the common denominator should be named after the population, we know that we have lost before the common denominator is reduced. Will the Council of State take the initiative that land, not just the population, should also be given priority in the possible appointment of the Common Name of Troms and Finnmark? Does the Council share my concern that, in that case, Finnmark will be in a large minority and, in reality, totally free of influence over its own future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e155	Finnmark is to the greatest extent now where they can take control of their own future. My appeal to Finnmark and to Troms from my first meeting with the representatives of the two states was: take control of the process further, decide for yourself what future you will have. That has been my clear call. That is why I also asked the parties to be assisted by a mediation person whom they prided on, in order to reach an agreement that they wanted to implement. That's what happened. It is such that the head of the state of Troms and the chairman of the county of Finnmark carried out a mediation by means of a former staging representative and former member of the government Knut Storberget. I realized that it was a very good process. They recommended this agreement. They are all three members of the representative's own party. They are democratically elected in the two counties. My hope now is that the two counties join the agreement that their own elected representatives have adopted, and in which, of course, I have not interfered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e160	It opens for follow-up questions – first Ingelill Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e165	It is the Stortinget that has taken this decision. The Finnmarkings are not responsible for their own situation. They didn't choose it themselves. This is coercion. There is a great and loud demand for a referendum to be held in connection with the merger of Troms and Finnmark. The working party believes that the outcome would be overwhelmingly negative. If a referendum were conducted with a no-majority result, would it lead to the state council taking note of the outcome, bowing to the people's will in Finnmark and starting the process of converting the coercion decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e172	The representative invites me to wonder what would happen if we in Norway did not have democratic elections and pride in them. We've had that. We had the last harvest. The Storting has made a decision that Stortinget can make. You can disagree with that, and I can see that many people in Finnmark are. But that's how far you have to deal with what the majority has decided, and then Finnmark can now decide his own future or leave it to me. I don't want to make decisions on behalf of Finnmark, I want Finnmark himself to take them, and I hope the county council in Finnmark does.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e177	Kjell-Idar Juvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e182	Forces rarely bring something good with them. Now we're looking at Finnmark's exposure and rascal, and that's understandable. The same dissatisfaction we saw in Northern Ireland, and then the government turned around. More and Romesdal, Oslo and Rogaland have maintained their independence as a result of local resistance. The opposition from Finnmark has either been underestimated by the government, or then you simply haven't cared. The process has been unyielding and unsustainable by the government, and then you take responsibility for the states. Even today, you owe it to Stortinget alone. Now it will be up to the Council of State how this process is going to proceed. This will be crucial for increasing the unfriendliness of these states. Does the Council of State share the fears that the decision taken by a narrow majority leads to a lasting division between Troms and Finnmark? And what will the Council of State contribute to the proper implementation of this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e188	I understand that someone is trying to make this a government project. So it's not. This is a regional reform initiated by the Stortinget, adopted by the Stortinget and followed by the government. If you think about it, you will know that the two government parties in the last period had one primary wish, and that was to abolish the third level of government – to get even stronger municipalities, which could make even more decisions. We do not have a majority for that. Then we relate to the decisions the Stortinget has made. Two democratically elected magnates have decided that Troms and Finnmark will become one state. I feel that the two county rapporteurs, representing their counties, have had a good process by means of a mediation person. They have reached an agreement, which they recommend and to which I hope the democratically elected counties will join.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e193	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e198	Now the state council released the cat again and shows that this is a government that wants to lower this state level, and as a step on the way – as government parties have said on several occasions – these coercive mergers of the states come. It creates great problems, costs, wasted time, and evil blood. If you don't want to, you have to! If you do not accept the compulsory marriage and the conditions, the Council of State – at least in the media – has promised to come and clean up. It is no shame to turn around if you understand that a decision is wrong. My recommendation will be that the Council of State take the matter seriously, get up and talk to the Finnish authorities and those concerned, and get involved properly in the matter. Will the Council of State do that, or will you continue to coerce, at arm's length, without having been there and talking to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e205	I can assure the representative Karin Andersen that I have been involved in the matter. I was in Finnmark two weeks ago, and I've had several meetings with the people elected from Finnmark and Troms. This is not about not knowing a thing, this is about dealing with a big decision, and I think it's the first time I've experienced that the opposition in Stortinget is crying out that the government is not going to do what the Storinget has decided. We can't have it that way. We have to follow up these decisions, and we do that by Finnmark and Troms deciding for themselves how they want to proceed with this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e210	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e215	There are not many days since we received a full book sent to Stortinget about decisions made by Stortinget, which the government has not followed up. So there the government has a little bit to go on – to say it like that – by following up many of the proposals that the Storting has adopted and with which it is shared. But this is a matter where the Council of State also today in Stortinget admits that the goal is to lower this level. Then you invite a popular level to join some sort of decision on the way to settle down. That's not a good invitation. In the case of Finnmark in particular, the situation there is so special that there would be no shame to turn around. There are governments and parties that have changed their positions when they see in reality that this does not create anything good, that on the contrary it creates more problems, costs more and is not a solution that is good enough. Does the Council not see that decisions should in some cases be taken because they were initially neither appropriate nor good?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e224	I see the representative Karin Andersen as a very experienced politician, and if she has only discovered today what is the primary position of the Advance Party and the Right, I am very surprised. This is not ‘catting out of the bag’ – these are our primary positions. They're very well known, through both party programs and elections. And then I want to say, the alternative to not removing the third level of government is to get bigger and stronger regions that are actually able to do the tasks they're going to do. Finnmark is – as Andersen’s representative says – in a very special situation. They're in a situation where they're struggling with school dropouts, and they're yelling at the workforce and their skills. It is the country that has the lowest population. Then it will strengthen Finnmark to grow bigger and stronger. Therefore, it is my goal to ensure that the decision taken by the Stortinget is implemented, and preferably that Finnmark and Troms themselves control the implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e231	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e236	State Council Meland says this is not a government project. Norway has had a regional reform no one really wants. Who really thinks it is wise to coerce Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud into a new giant state, the Viking? Who is it that burns for Finnmark and Troms to coerce, where we get a region that is larger than Ireland and that has huge distances? And there's no local enthusiasm in Finnmark at all. The Right Party and the Advance Party have hardly been willing to defend the reform – well represented here by Monica Meland, who owes it to everyone else. It's the Right that has forced it through. But what they have said is that it is a compromise with the Christian People's Party and the Left. What was the Christian People's Party saying in June when this was enforced in Stortinget? It's a solution no parties really want,' said the Christian People's Party. And the representative Hareide was in Hallingdal this winter and said that many people have problems seeing that the Viking is an optimal region. That was very well said. Then he got follow-up questions, if he thought the Viking would be divided into two. Yes, he thought so, so now they had to work out of it. This is the Christian People's Party's position. They don't want the Fold, and they think it's going to be divided into two. In Finnmark, there is rebellion. But the Right-State Council of Malta has announced that additional coercion will be used, and then the government will sit in Oslo and decide. Why does the State Council of Malta think that it is wise that she should sit in Oslo on behalf of the government and the Right and coercion two states that do not?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e251	It's a fascinating description of a reality I don't know about at all. I think it's very wise of a government council, especially as a member of a minority government, to deal with the decisions Stortinget has taken. I understand that Battle violence Vedum and many others disagree with these decisions, but it is therefore the case that the Stortinget discussed whether to reverse this position before Christmas. It decided a majority in this House not to do. Then it's not like I've threatened Finnmark with us ruling from Oslo. On the contrary, in all the conversations I have had with representatives from Troms and Finnmark, and in all the interviews I have given, I have said that it is up to Finnmark to control Finnmark. I want them to do it. I have no desire to do so from an office in Oslo. The representative knows very well that the legal system is such that if the parties do not agree, they may ask the Ministry to take decisions. That's what Troms did. When they did, I asked the parties to let themselves be assisted by a mediation agent. So I didn't want us to sit in Oslo and control the development of Finnmark. The parties were assisted by a person in whom they were proud, whom they were helped to establish an agreement, which the parties therefore recommended to their council. I understand that Battle Violence Vedum disagrees with the decision taken by Stortinget, but it is so done, and my hope is that representatives from Troms and Finnmark themselves will guide development further. So if this isn't the system, then we can make decisions, and of course we will.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e264	It sounds very hollow when the Council of State, which is the front figure of those who want to use coercion, says that it is up to Finnmark to rule Finnmark. It is precisely the Right with its biggest representatives who have taken away Finnmark and other counties around the country the opportunity to rule their own county. So fair a council should be that she defends that position right now has forced through in Stortinget. And why do Monica Meland and Right think it's so wise to create new, big regions that nobody really wants? What gets better in Finnmark? What services are getting better? How is it going to be better school results, as a promise instead, by coercing Finnmark and Troms, when there's no local enthusiasm? What's the reason why the Right believes it's so wise to force Finnmarks to do something they don't want to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e272	You'd like to think it's hollow. I have now tried in a neat manner to explain the main point of view of the Right and the fact that the Storting has made decisions that I am following. It can't be explained in any other way than I've tried to do here. Then it is that when our primary position cannot be implemented because we do not have a majority in this hall, I am too larger and stronger regions. I actually thought that the Central Party was also the time they put in government and had a municipal minister named Åslaug Haga, who probably drew a regional map with nine regions. Now we actually get eleven. It is both about following up the tasks that the counties have today, and – not least – about getting new and heavier tasks. It's about size. It's about capacity. It's about competence. It is not that the less a municipality or county is, the more competent they are, and the better services they provide. On the contrary, all the overviews show that in small municipalities, and especially in North Norway, there are labouring in just these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e281	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Force Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e286	Monica Meland has made it his favorite exercise to push everyone else in front of him in this coercion practice. And I understand so much that the Council of State thinks this is unpleasant. She keeps saying that it's the decision of the Storting. But if the Right Will, there'll be a majority on a wink not to use this coercion. There was hardly a majority before Christmas. Knut Arild Hareide, leader of the Christian People's Party, has already announced that you want to divide the Week into two. Can Monica Meland say that this is a well-worked, wise reform, which has had good local processes, and which has created local enthusiasm, or has it become a achievement just to carry it out, cost what it costs, because it was part of the community reform? What is the best argument given by Monica Mæland to coerce Finnmark when she lets. More and Romesdal stand as their own state?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e295	I can repeat and repeat that I am dealing with the decisions and negotiations that have taken place in Stortinget. It was just supposed to be missing. The alternative, I can also repeat, to small states that lack skills and have difficulties in finding jobs, is to get larger and stronger regions. That means that once the Storting has made this decision, I trust myself, as we say in the West. That means that I want this reform to be as successful as possible. And it'll be the most successful if the states themselves control the process, and not know that we're doing it at a department office in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e302	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e307	The regional reform began as an invitation from the government to the neighbouring talks between the states, where they themselves should consider whether aggregation was sensible. The conclusions of the negotiations with neighbouring countries were brutally overrun by the government next time, and it ended with coercion across the county council decisions. One of the decisions that is most difficult to understand for central politicians, for citizens in the state, and not least for local politicians from all parties, is the merger of the counties Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud. It's a construction that breaks with all the prerequisites the government had for the establishment of functional regions. It will not be a common housing and labour market region. The population is 1.2 million – towards little Moor and Romsdal, which is getting smaller. And in the middle of the Week lies Oslo, which is a common labour market region with Akershus. At the same time, the government chooses to organise the county offices in a different way. They say themselves that this is incomprehensible. Can the Council of State explain to me how this construction can make sense, and how will the Council of State meet the strong reactions that have come upon the establishment of the Week as a new county?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e316	I hear that the representative disagrees with the decisions that have been taken. We can wonder about that, but I'm dealing with them being done. They're made of the previous biging, they're confirmed by this biging. Then my job is to make sure that this regional reform, these groupings, is as successful as possible, and it is by allowing the state politicians themselves to control the process, whether it be in the East, in North Norway or in the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e321	Geir Adelsten Iversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e326	I wonder if the Council of State understands the background of the great, enormous commitment, frustration and the uprising that is taking place in Finnmark. It's awfully strange that when the council called Troms and Finnmark into mediation, it was easiest to meet at the Gardermoen. Troms and Finnmark won't be a state, it'll be a continent. There will be major challenges due to distances, costs and not least to offering good services to people living in the new giant county. Of course, if the Finnish Government takes Finnmark seriously, she should listen to what people in Finnmark think. Will the Council of State support the implementation of a referendum on the merger of Troms and Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e335	That's not what the representative describes, that I called the parties into mediation. The parties wanted a meeting to discuss the situation with me. Actually, the invitation from both came at the same time. We had a meeting with me, where Troms asked that the department put down a common denominator, and they explained that they did not move forward in the negotiations. Then I asked that the parties get help from a broker. We discussed that. They suggested who the broker should be, they had contact with the broker and set time and place for the mediation meeting. I didn't get involved in that at all. I was just concerned that the parties themselves took control of the process, not that I did it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e344	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e350	This round of answers has been a whole series of explanations from the Council of State. What the Council of State has done in every answer throughout the Question Time is to distance itself from the coercive reform that it is going to implement. First, she owes everybody else. She says it's not a government project. She says we have to deal with the Storting. Nor is she the one who has invited to mediation, it is the parties that have done so. And don't you think she also says that we need to have the forced reform in Finnmark to stop the dropout in schools in Finnmark – at a time when the government has adopted a standard of teachers that will drain Finnmark for teachers? When will the Council of State be the Minister of State and actually stand up and take responsibility for what she has now planned to do? My concern is that if Malta and the state are going to meet the Finnish mark-ups in this way, it's going to be a very interesting exercise. The council did not answer Geir Adelsten Iversen's question: Is it relevant to hold a referendum, so that the Finnish markers are allowed to say what they think about the coercion of the states?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e359	I understand that the Center Party wants to operate with a different reality description than the one that is the actual one. On the question of referendum, the answer to that is simply no. We have a good system in Norway based on grossing-up choices. It was implemented in September. I understand that the centre party is not satisfied with the election result. I am. So it's like the Stortinget just before Christmas discussed whether to reverse this decision. The answer to that was no. Then it is my job as municipal minister to implement the decisions Stortinget has taken. That's what I'm going to do. I have had a very good dialogue with the parties in both Troms and Finnmark, and it was the parties who wanted to be assisted by the ministry. I didn't get involved in it. It's about taking the elected level, the state level, seriously. It's not about overcoming it. It's not about forcing through solutions that I think are better fit than the parties. The parties are best placed to govern their own future, and I hope they will.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e370	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e375	The Council of State will therefore not consider whether the Finnish mark-ups should be allowed to take a decision on this by referendum. She owes us a big shot, and the Stortinge adopted the reform, with the lowest possible majority. It is a reform that no one really wants. Neither does the own party of Malta want that reform. Nevertheless, it was adopted at Stortinget by a very limited majority. There is a reform that the Right Party does not want, and from which the State Council has now used six to seven responses to distance itself. And then the government won't let the Finns sail to say what they think about the reform? There's such a contradiction, there's such an explanation in what the Council of State here says, that it's quite remarkable. But let me ask another question, then. If it is now so thoughtful and important and the Storting has adopted it, why is it reasonable that Rogaland, who has one fifth of the area of Finnmark, is allowed to stand alone while Finnmark is being coerced?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e384	The remarkable thing here is that the Central Party has no confidence in a big elections, has no confidence in democratically elected representatives at state level. It is the county leaders in Troms and Finnmark who have negotiated this agreement, and who have let themselves be assisted by a mediation person. It's a mistrust of our entire political system that I've barely seen my husband do. With regard to the assessment made by Rogaland, there is an assessment made by those who negotiated in this room, but it may be a tip to look at the population in Rogaland. Rogaland has over 400,000 inhabitants – many more than Troms and Finnmark have combined.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e391	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e396	Tomorrow is March 8th – that is why I want to ask the Minister for Gender Equality a question. The social debater and the poet Sumaya Jirde Ali have recently been subjected to a brutal women's hateful and racist hate campaign led by the so-called Nettavis of the outer right, Resett. The threats, harassment and shellfishing have gone so far that Sumaya has had to withdraw from, among other things. March 8th marking in Bergen tomorrow. She has been called a tragic specimen of a human being, an immaterial being who should be sent home to Somalia, and one has commented: Call about her, spill gasoline and light the torches. This is an attack on democracy and freedom of expression. It particularly affects young minority women. Many have responded to the campaign against Sumaya with our own campaign in support of her. Only after several days of deafening silence and media pressure finally came Erna Solberg on the track and condemned the hate strikes against Sumaya. But to show its support and give visibility to the struggle for freedom of expression, the equality of women and the fight against social control by going on the 8th March train, from which Sumaya has been hounded away, however, it does not seem that she intends to do so. Apart from the Prime Minister's late response, there has seemed to be little political commitment from the right around this serious and important matter. The Minister for Equal Opportunities, who has been given a great constitutional political responsibility to combat discrimination and promote equality, has been so far both silent and invisible. I want to ask the Council of State where she's been for the past week, why not the country's Minister of Gender has taken Sumaya in defense when so many others have joined the 'I support Sumaya' campaign, and if the Council of State this time intends to take trains for Sumaya and her sisters who were pushed away from participating in, among others. tomorrow's marking.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e409	I very much appreciate getting that question from the representative of Oberstegård. I am very concerned about the climate of debate that we are now experiencing. I'm concerned about the extent of hateful expressions based on ethnicity, religion, and the way of life. Sumaya is one of those who are hit very hard, and who are threatened with – at least temporarily – deafness. It shows that we don't have a society that has room for everyone. Although freedom of expression is very central to our society and our freedom of expression is inalienable, we now see that democracy is gradually being turned in. Not least, we also see this against the politicians. I was very sorry and very angry when I saw what Sumaya was exposed to. That's why I contacted Sumaya. I sent her an enquiry where I regretted what she was experiencing, and where I invited her to a conversation when she felt ready for it. I see her as a very strong representative who dares stand up for his opinions. I want to hear from someone who experiences it himself: what are the most important measures we should take in the fight against hateful expressions? The government has also presented a strategy against hateful expressions and an action plan that is important to follow up. I'm glad the Prime Minister so clearly went out and stamped what this is. I will engage in further dialogue with Sumaya and others to fight against what they now experience, and also fight the fight against hateful expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e418	Strategies are good, but when no one in the government went on the 8th March train in 2017, the current state councillor, Hofstad Helleland, said, and I quote: ‘I have never been particularly concerned about going on a train. I rather joined the Right to influence women's opportunities and situation." Then it's interesting to see what the Minister for Equal Opportunities is doing politically. On 23 May last year, the Stortinget decided that the government should reduce a sample to look at the gender challenges children face. In January of this year, the Council of State states in a letter that they will return to the Grand Duchy with information on the follow-up to that decision. A year has passed since that decision was taken. In the meantime, we have been told by the Children’s Ombudsman that while adult women who experience rape are offered rape receptions, children do not have the same offer. They don't, it's discrimination. How long should Norwegian children and young people wait before the Minister for Gender Equality sets up such a sample, and, more importantly, when can we expect to see concrete proposals that will strengthen equality among children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e430	I guess I'm about to be a Minister for Gender Equality for six weeks. It's been very exciting. Not least is one of the areas in which I have prioritised going into, just youth challenges today. This is why we are now going to set up a separate selection to look at youth culture, on how young people and children are also affected by the digital world and the platforms on which they are now on, but not least give us more knowledge about gender role patterns and gender equality challenges that young people experience, both in education and in work. We're going to set up a separate youth committee. On 8 March, I invite bloggers and influencers to a meeting about the negative impact I think many people have on gender equality in relation to children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e437	It opens for follow-up questions – first Freddy André Upper Courtyard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e443	I asked for another specific decision – but that's okay. Last summer, the Stortinget decided that the government should investigate a low-threshold offer to enforce the ban on sexual harassment. The Council of State states in a letter this year that the Ministry will return to the Stortinget with information on the follow-up to that request decision. The months go by. In the meantime, brave women have told us about violations and harassment. Recently, a new gender equality report showed that sexual harassment is widespread, that women are more exposed than their male colleagues, and that a total of 10 pst. women have been exposed to unwanted sexual attention monthly or more frequently. How long does the Council of State think she needs to investigate the need for a low-threshold offer and an extension of the enforcement authority of the Discrimination Board in this area, a question that was addressed already in 2012, by the Skjeie Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e452	I'm going to start an investigation into the low-threshold offer these days. It's because we have two reasons to take care of, both the one who's warning, and the one that's being warned of. If the Stortinge is to be presented with a proposal on how we can strengthen not only the information and guidance part of this work – as the Equality Ombudsman today receives very many requests – but also this one in dealing with these issues, which are very complicated, we must first investigate. I hope to come back with a proposal for Stortinget as soon as it is possible, after we have determined how this should work in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e459	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e464	We're excited to wait for it. As mentioned, it's March 8th tomorrow. 253 days have passed since the government was asked to maintain and strengthen the duty of activity and presentation. In the meantime, the government has weakened the obligation to report by approx. 90 pst. by establishments which have been exempted. In addition, we see that the request decisions made by Stortinget are still suspended and explained that we are waiting for investigations. It is therefore tempting to remind the Council of State of Hofstad Helleland of what she said about the then Council of State of Audun Lysbakken in 2010, and I quote: ‘The light tray enters the sequence of a handful of red-green children’s ministers in the last five years who investigate, evaluate and reduce samples.’ Instead, he could have ‘put matters forward to the Stortinget’. But he might have met the wall. My question is then: How quickly will the Council of State ensure that the decision of the Grand Council is implemented and leads to action that gives children, women and men a more equal and secure everyday life – or has the Council of State perhaps met the wall?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e480	The challenge in this case is that Stortinget has winged a little. First, the Family and Culture Committee took a decision to remove the obligation to make presentations. Then the finance committee made a completely different decision before Christmas. And then we have a request decision that I'm following up, where I'm going to come back with an activity and reporting obligation that ensures that companies don't get an increase in bureaucracy associated with this, but that also does the equality work around the different workplaces in a good way. We are in the process of working, and we will, after a thorough work, make a proposal for the Storting where we will take good care of the two considerations. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e487	Time's up. Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e494	We've heard things take time. Now the government has been sitting for almost five years, so the Workers' Party has submitted a proposal on social control and honorary violence. We have seen that women get involved in the public debate, and they are threatened with life – these are people from the representative of the Supreme Court about this – and locally we have a gay man who is not allowed to sing in choirs because he is gay. The right and the government have been relatively tame about social control, which is at best in Norwegian society today. The government has now been responsible for this field for almost five years, and we are still waiting for action. But this matter is important, it also underlines the Council of State in its answer. That is why I expect – and I take it for granted – that this is a topic that has been addressed by the Council of State when she is now responsible for the gender equality field. I would ask her to share with Stortinget three important measures that she will work to get work done or start processes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e499	This is something that not only the government is very concerned about, but that the Storting is also very concerned about, and therefore there are now also several proposals in Stortinget. We are following up our action plan on hate response – not least about more knowledge and dialogue with those who feel affected – and we are also following up the action plan on negative social control, against forced marriage, and efforts to combat gender mutilation should be reinforced. First of all, it is important for us to strengthen legal protection for those who are subjected to coercion and negative social control. I look very forward to March 8. Then the Prime Minister and the Minister of Inclusion, together with me, have invited you to a lunch meeting in the Prime Minister's home, where we have invited a lot of women from the minority community to tell us how they experience this, and what we can do to improve their situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e506	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e511	I was happy when I saw that the Prime Minister was out defending Sumaya earlier this week against what she called "net-troll on the far right". Unfortunately, not only the network roles pose a threat to women's equal rights to contribute in public space. It makes editorials that are not aware of what votes they give room to in their column, it makes listeners, readers and viewers who more or less deliberately add to men's contribution greater credibility or authority, and we do so as legislators if we do not take our responsibility seriously. However, since the public debate is increasingly taking place on social media, networking is one of the most serious threats to an inclusive and equivocal vocabulary. I would therefore ask the Council of State how she thinks that politics can prevent women from being forced into silence, in order to use the Prime Minister's words, as Sumaya and more with her have already become.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e518	Sick and discriminatory statements do not belong either in politics or elsewhere, and it is with great concern that I look at this development and how it distorts the public debate we have. I believe that the policy can contribute something important to the independence of women, to the understanding that their voice is important, that they should be heard, and that in Norway they have a right to be heard. We have freedom of expression. You can say whatever you want, you can disagree as much as you want, but you have to be heard. It is also important that we ensure that we disseminate knowledge about this, not least that we involve more people in the public debate. I think that's important for all parties in the future, too, that we're more able to involve more than the few that stand very alone, and that are being subjected to such a pressure as they are now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e524	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e529	It is fine if the Minister for Children and Gender Equality stays standing. Tomorrow it's the Great Women's Day, and tradition also comes the debate about whether we need this day here in one of the world's most equal countries. I think on Women's Day we should raise our eyes. Women's day must be about girls and women being more vulnerable to climate change, more vulnerable to violence and abuse as civilians in war-torn areas, more vulnerable to poverty and more vulnerable to severe illness. While we have this global perspective, women's day must also be about real equality at home. It's e.g. not so women and men serve the same for the same job. Equal pay for equal work is a fundamental principle of equality. Even small children understand that the only fair thing is that two people who do the same job have to get the same pay. Therefore, in the Christian People's Party, it is inspiring when Iceland seized this injustice and this year introduced, as the world's first country, an equal pay law that requires all companies with over 25 employees to report on the equal pay situation, and where men earn more than women for the same sweat game, fines are imposed. Together with a certification scheme, Iceland will thus close the pay gap between men and women, which is about 16 p.m., by 2022. Here on the mountain we have the principle of equal pay, but just a few months ago, the SSB came up with fresh figures that show that there is still a piece between the ideals of equality law and the realities of life, and this shows that there is a need for clear action to close the pay gap. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State on this day before the Women's Day: What concrete measures does she think is important for us to close this unfair pay gap between men and women?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e542	There are many things we have to do, and I am very happy that the Christian People's Party is so concerned about that issue. The most important thing we do is to motivate educational choices other than what we see. We have a very gender-based labour market in Norway, and if we're going to make some changes there, it's also about motivating the boys, but also the girls, to take other types of educational choices, for example. by the programmes currently in place: men in health and girls and technology. Yeah, it's important, because we have to motivate already in kindergarten, so there's not just girls going to be nurses, and there's only boys going to be boss. There the government has ambitions – we also have ambitions when it comes to continuing work to reduce involuntary part-time. The numbers that have gone down from 2013 to now, and it's very happy, because it's also about income. Then it's about getting more women into management. We need more women into the boards, but the proposal that is now being promoted in Iceland, I think, is going very far. I think we're still going to try other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e547	Thanks for the answer. One of the concrete tools we have in the fight for equal opportunities in employment is the obligation to make representations, which according to the Equality Act is that employers should report on the status of enterprises in relation to gender equality. When we dealt with the Gender Equality Act last year, we received some feedback that this obligation to report was unnecessary bureaucracy for businesses, without sufficient concrete content or effect. So the duty of reporting has been through dangerous waters in recent years, but seems to be on its way safely again. On that basis, and with an eye to Iceland, I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether she will consider including a part of the obligation to report back to the company, which goes into the company's equal pay situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e556	As I previously answered a question here today, we are now going through the law, so that we can follow up the request decision of the Stortingen and file a case on the obligation to make representations. There we are concerned that small and medium-sized enterprises should not be over-bureaucratic but at the same time be able to maintain a gender perspective. I will come back to the recording by the representative Bekkevold, after the government has dealt with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e561	It opens for follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e566	At the NRK today, it was noted that there are few female top managers compared to male top managers in Norwegian working life. In the oil and gas industry and shipping sector, a female senior executive serves 81.6 pst. of the remuneration of male top managers in the same profession. So my question to the council is, what does she think about women getting 81.6 pst? of the pay pot, while men get 100? And what will she do directly to smooth this pay gap? Because neither of us can say that we think this is fair when you do the same job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e571	As I also replied to the representative, Bekkevold, I think we have to do a lot of things in the education process, but also work with attitudes and motivations for a less gender-segregated working life than what we now have. Then we also need to stimulate more women to become both middle managers and top managers. I was at an event yesterday, and Berit Svendsen, Group Director of Telenor, was appointed to this year's boardwoman. What was discussed there was that now the Stortinget and our politicians have done enough with the law, now the business and the working life must come after. I hope that we also see a change not least in the case of an equal pay situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e578	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e583	I understand that we're pretty much in agreement that we want more female leaders, and I don't just want female middle managers, I also want female top managers. In health, there has been a different gender division. There's a lot of women working there, there's been a lot more female doctors. But it is now once that there are women, even though we have come a long way in many areas, who are still giving birth. We also know that there are women who also take the greatest care burden at home, and we know that the women who take care of them at home are the ones who are not allowed to be on a payroll or a career jump, because you see that they can be on leave arrangements to take care of children. It's a paradox to today's birth rate, I think. My question to the Council of State is: When the Council of State says that there are many other things that have to be done, are there things that have to be done to ensure that women who take care of themselves, who are those who bear children and have maternity responsibility, can also participate in the work and become top managers without there being a pay gap there, even if you take a social responsibility for having children?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e590	I am delighted that the government will present a historic parental leave scheme, which is a third just to take care of the equality of the family. We know that when Father is home, it shows research, he takes more responsibility for the child and the home, and Mother goes back to work faster and can invest more in her professional career. I'm really looking forward to that third. That I think would have a lot to say for equality both at home and in the workplace. Then it is that pay discrimination is prohibited. We have to work against employers to ensure that some employers do not remain brake blocks in the workplace. I still believe that there are some industries where you have a long way to go, and there I hope to cooperate with the employers' organisations. Some industries are very good, but some are still hanging. We have to have several fathers who go home and pick up the nursery, who take out the whole family quota and also their share of the community leave, so it doesn't just belong to mom.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e600	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e605	My question goes to the Dale State Council. Compared to the other Nordic countries, Norway is at the bottom of the statistics on the share of land under organic farming. The blue-blue government left in addition to last year's previous stated goal of 15 pst. food production in Norway shall come from organic farming. At the same time, there is reason to believe that demand for organic food will continue to increase in Norway. Demand increased by 14 pst. in the first half of 2017, according to a report by the Directorate for Agriculture. Demand is often greater than Norwegian production and thus requires increased imports. While Norway's targets are weakened, the arrows point in a completely opposite direction in the countries around us. Sweden and Denmark are actively committed to supporting ecosystems. Denmark has a target to double the ecological area up to 15 pst. already by 2020. In Sweden, the target is 30 pst. ecological area by 2030; It is becoming increasingly evident that the government’s lack of support for Norwegian eco-agriculture will lead to trade leakages, increased imports of organic products and loss of rural jobs and value creation, because Norwegian producers do not get the same good conditions as eco-obligors in our neighbouring country and therefore lose out on competition with this market. Will the Council of State present a strategy to correct this imbalance between support for Norwegian, Swedish and Danish eco-objectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e614	I think I should start by encouraging the representative to read the agricultural policy from the last few years. If, above the agricultural agreement, we are to offset the imbalance between Norway and, for example, Norway. In Denmark, when there is an incentive to eco-production, transfers will definitely not rise. After all, at the top of fairly high transfers to agriculture to stimulate production across the country in all productions, organic producers often experience additional incentives beyond conventional production. Nevertheless, there has been a mismatch between what is produced in Norway and what is consumed in Norway – but in the sense that organic production has never been linked to what is actually demanded in the market, and that is the sensible approach. For Norwegian farmers, the possibility to produce organically shall exist, and Norwegian farmers will take advantage of that possibility as long as one produces the products consumed. But for many years we have had an overproduction on, for example. meat – organically produced, conventionally translated because there was no demand for it. In the milk sector it is partly the same. One area where we have grown is fruit and green, and that also explains why some of the numbers that come from the Directorate of Agriculture show what they do. This is precisely because for fruit and green we have more import needs than we have too many other productions, and that hangs among other things. together with our climatic conditions. So we're going to have an organic production in Norway, we're going to continue to stimulate it, but he should stick with what's actually demanded in the market, so that one doesn't use land to produce food that's not requested by the users. Rather, we should produce more efficiently.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e621	The government has decided to put forward a strategy for eco-farming, and there should then be a strategy with high ambitions and concrete measures to take the market, as mentioned by the Dale Council. We need public purchasers to ensure predictable demand. We need more research on how eco-farming can become the best possible spearhead for the environment and animal-friendly agriculture. We need a better economic framework in the agricultural sector. In short, this is an important strategy. My next question will then be: will the Council of State present this strategy as a matter of its own, so that we can also get a proper treatment of it in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e628	The answer to that is yes. Stortinget has ordered this, and Stortinget will be delivered. But there is reason to question how coherent the policy of the Green Party is in this area. Because we can, for example, Stimulate organic beef production – it is certainly quite possible, and it is probably possible to get a response to it too – but then the Greens will charge the same production to the Greens. So it's okay that everything is connected, and that one has a thoughtful policy in these areas instead of just running symbol policies. I think the most important thing about the eco-codbat is to move him away from the question of percentages for sales or purchases and to create a production that is related to market demand, so that consumers in Norway feel that they can buy the goods they want. It is the most important provision for happiness in organic production. That's what I'm going to address in the eco-strategy that we're going to put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e635	It opens for follow-up questions – Per Espen Stoknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e640	I'm glad Dale acknowledges that demand for organic products is growing strongly in Norway. Switzerland is a very interesting country to learn from in this way. They have the world's highest per-capita consumption of organic food, with a total of 31 pst. of the area of organic production in 2015. My final question is: Will the Council of State ensure that the strategy acquires thorough knowledge from the Swiss experience — another mountain with enormously varied topography and soil — to look at what can be transferred to Norwegian conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e647	I always let myself be inspired by things other countries do right. I'm not sure Switzerland is the only place one has to go after it. Switzerland has a land area of about the same size as Trøndelag. It's easier to keep the cultural landscape up there. It is located in the centre of central Europe and has a significantly larger market around it. But I'm sure it's also possible to see what experience they've had. At the end of the day, this is about the fact that today we have had significantly higher organic production of many products than we have been on the market. An imbalance between production and turnover is not good for anyone. That is why we must have organic production that is linked to market demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e652	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e657	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality: It's March 8th tomorrow, a day to highlight the gender equality challenges we have in Norway, and they're many, despite the fact that we've come very far compared to most countries. One of the arrangements that have been crucial for equality, that women and men can combine family life with working life, is among other things. the parental leave scheme — with a large father’s quota, which allows mother to go back to work and father to go home and take part in the care of children, homes and homes. It's primarily good for the child, it's good for the father and the child's relationship, and it's good for equality at home and for equality in society in general. Because we know that when women have children, something happens about career development and gender equality in working life and in family life. Fortunately, the government has listened to the Left, who, like the Workers' Party, believes that a large part of the parental leave should be a father's quota reserved for father. Nevertheless, many thousands of fathers do not have the right to a single day of papacy leave, because mothers do not have earned rights before birth and do not have the opportunity to go into activity after birth. In these cases, Father loses everything and is not given the opportunity to be at home and bond closely with his child. It is unfair and is a quite obvious gender equality challenge in Norway today. It also believes that the EU, which has asked Norway to change the scheme, so that all dads get cardboard. What will the Council of State do to correct this, so that all fathers have the opportunity to have paper issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e668	I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has expressed such clear support for the proposal of the third division, and I am pleased that the government will soon present it, that mother and father will have each their own corpse. But we also have a third to free distribution, which I hope many fathers are going to take out, and that this is not still going to be the mother's share. It's right, as the representative of the Trettebergstien has said, that we've got questions from ESA. There is currently no obligation to pay parental leave. Nevertheless, ESA considers that it may be discriminatory in relation to equality. I believe it should be up to national authorities what conditions are met for entitlement to the payment of parental leave. We have one of Europe's most noisy and equivocal parental leave schemes, and I do not believe that the requirement for mother's activity is contrary to the EU's gender equality directive. I believe it should be up to us as a national authority to decide for ourselves how best to arrange the payments of parental leave, and therefore Norway has sent a letter to ESA where we believe this is not correct. Then it is that removing the activity requirement could have a negative effect on employment. We haven't anchored in the Jelaua platform that we're going to do something about the obligation of activity, so far. [[The President clubs.]] It's also a budgetary question because it's about 800 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e678	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e683	I am pleased that the Council of State is pleased to file a case on three-part leave, because we know that the Council of State was previously opposed to the entire father's quota, but has turned around. It's a pleasure. But also on this question that we are now discussing, the Council of State has turned around, and it is not as joyful. In 2010, the current representative of Groningen, Hofstad Helleland, said that today fathers can have the job for 20 years and pay taxes and social security contributions without having the opportunity to withdraw a family allowance. ‘This discriminates against several thousand men in the law. It shall change to the right’, said the Council of State at that time. How did the Council of State, when she was a poacher, feel that all fathers were going to have a paper mission, and that the law is discriminating against fathers, but that it is now suddenly no longer doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e690	I see both sides of this case. As I said, the obligation of activity also contributes to a faster return to work, and we know that it contributes to increased equality at home as well. But when I now say that this is not discriminatory, it has to do with what ESA has said to us. I believe that what ESA tells us to change is not contrary to the Equality Act. All the time now there is no obligation to pay parental leave, I believe this must be up to the national authorities to decide for themselves. So to the activity requirement: for father to take out a common part, mother must be in work, in studies, in the introduction program or qualification program. If both have earned the right, this allowance does not apply. But if father has earned the right to parental leave and mother then goes into an activity, as mentioned earlier, then father may have the right to be at home with paid parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e697	It opens for follow-up questions – first Anette Trettebergstien.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e702	It is nice to explain the legislation, but we know the legislation. My question is what the Council of State should do to correct that injustice. The working party has been involved in introducing the activity requirement and thought it was right, but when we see that nearly 6,000 fathers lose the right to take out the paper issue because mother has no earned rights and has no activity to go into, we have to ask ourselves how well this activity requirement actually works. Does the Council of State see that it will be good for the equality at home and also for the equality and workline later that, despite Mom’s lack of activity, father can actually get away from home, take responsibility for home and home, and be home with children even in cases where mother is not active?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e709	I remember when I was the women's political leader in the Right and had the position that I was going to kick the mother party a little behind, that I went out and said it was discriminatory that my father did not get his own right of withdrawal. Then the Workers' Party sat in government, and for eight years the Workers' Party chose not to do anything about it. They didn't think it was discriminatory. So the Labour Party challenges me now and asks me why I shouldn't do anything about it. Has the Labour Party prioritised one krone to correct this so-called discrimination against father in its alternative budget? No, the Labour Party has not put one penny in its own budget. If this is so discriminatory for father, perhaps the Workers' Party should give priority to doing something about it – before they attack and demand government answers. I am not saying that I do not see that this can be perceived unfairly by some fathers. What I do not agree with is discriminatory, is what ESA has specifically accused us of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e714	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e719	It is useful to record that the Council of State considers it more important to receive answers from the Workers' Party than to answer it itself. But that's another thing. The Labour Party has provided the most important gender equality reform in recent times, namely full childcare coverage. We can therefore see that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality has come up with better ideas on cardboard. The scrap safety of paperwork turned out to be of a short-term nature. Governments have also been short-sighted in the past in the wake of sloppy opinions on family policies. Before the government change, she said about kindergarten places that there would be a continuous recording with monthly counting points as the norm for kindergarten admissions in Norwegian municipalities. The first thing the Right-leaded government did was cut the kindergarten bet. There were longer cows and more expensive young children's parents to have room. Going high, but failing in the follow-up seems to be a bit of a trademark for Hofstad Helleland as the Council of State. Can we hope for a somewhat better date stamping of the political statement in the new role of the Council of State as Minister for Children?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e724	There has probably been a nice workshop between the Workers' Party and SV when they have gone through quotes from me as the women's political leader from 2008, 2010 and 2012. Now we are in 2018. I am most concerned about the future, what we should do to improve equality, so that families can combine good care for their children and take care of family priorities in their everyday lives and at the same time be active. That's why I'm glad that more people go to kindergarten, that we've reduced the kindergarten payment for those who earn the least, and that we have trial projects to reduce the cost for the SFO as well. I'm glad that we have one of the world's most plentiful arrangements, and that there is a Right Party, Progress Party and Left Government that is going to present the most offensively equal parental leave ever in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e729	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e734	My question goes to the Dale State Council. This applies to the agricultural policy of the Right and the Advance Party. It appears in the Notice. St. 11 for 2016-2017, Change and development — A future-oriented agricultural production, under Chapter 8, Increased production in Norwegian resources, on the societal mission of agricultural policy: ‘The self-sufficiency rate corrected for imports of feed should not be a result target for increased food production based on Norwegian resources.’ Calculated in this way, the degree of maritime supply of agricultural food is about 50 pst. In its position, there was a note from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party which took a distance from this definition, and proposed instead: ‘self-sufficiency corrected for imports of feed as a result target for Norwegian food production on Norwegian resources’.» When calculating the degree of maritime supply in this way, an international definition, the degree of maritime supply for Norwegian agricultural food will be about 40 pst. This is frighteningly low and needs to be increased. It requires larger plant production in Norway. We need better fertility in the soil and greater area in operation. Agricultural policy is a matter for society. The societal mission is food security — enough to be safe food. The holder is the instrument and has to have profitability in production in order to carry out the societal task, as is the role of health professionals in implementing health policy. The social mission of agriculture, food security, must be followed up in the agricultural settlement of the year. Greater profitability needs to be stimulated in the private sector to implement the content of this societal task. My question is: will the government follow up the majority comments of the Grand Duchy, or does the government need a decision to decide on the policy in line with this social mission?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e756	I note that in the processing of the Storing Message to which the representative Lundtegegen refers, the Centre Party went away from the self-sufficiency targets that they themselves proposed from Stortinget, the last time they were in government. That the Center Party brings with it the other party on Stortinget to reverse what one itself was for once, does not surprise me in any way, and I am able to take the signal on it. The only thing that will happen is that we'll never be self-sufficient in Norway. The way to measure it will make us unable to do it. I accept that Storting may choose to believe that it is the best way to measure the degree of self-sufficiency. However, in a country that primarily has the potential to produce grass – from which comes animal production, which largely results in food production based on protein – it is very little smart to achieve results based on where it has been producing sugar for years, which gives us carbohydrates. If the Storting wants such a result measure, they'll get it. But we don't have to trick ourselves into thinking that it says something about our ability to keep food production at a high level – because we do. To a greater extent than ever before, we produce food in this country. This government has strengthened the agricultural division of labour and improved the production of fruit and vegetables and cereals in the best agricultural areas — at the expense of grassland, which may remain in the districts — and thus have agriculture throughout the country. So if you're busy with results, there might be other parameters you should be as attentive as how to measure this self-sufficiency rate, which will vary between 40 pst. and 50 pst. – depending on the crop – with the way Lundtigen speaks for, and at the top of 50 pst. And the portion of the centurion, when they were appointed to the government, which I charged to the great assembly last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e767	These were many words to a concrete question. My question was simple: will the government follow up the majority comments of the Grand Duchy, or does the government need large numbers of people to change policy in line with this social mission? That's the central one.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e772	I thought the Center Party was familiar with using a lot of words. At least they have done so in agricultural policy as long as I have followed. There have been few results. I will try to be an example card: As I said in my previous answer, I will base the plural comments from Stortinget, and I will report it to Stortinget, while making the Stortinget aware of what the number will look like if one calculates the other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e777	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e782	My question goes to the Minister of State. A total construction industry was behind the report Simple to be serious, which was a response to an order from the government. When the report was available, the recommendations were ignored, which means that the construction industry is now asking itself if the government really meant the goal of facilitating the serious industry. Instead of following the recommendations of the report, the government has now come to the conclusion that they will set up an expert committee, but without representation by the social partners. It once again shows that the government does not understand or will use the tripartite cooperation to ensure a serious and organised working life. The industry is asking for measures that make it easy to be serious, but the government seems to be the easiest way to make new investigations, rather than political action. It shouldn't be on us. I can guarantee that the Storting would vote in favour of any proposal that would have actually strengthened the serious construction industry, if the government had agreed to make proposals. Why does the Council of State consider that the BNL and the Joint Alliance are not relevant to the expert committee, especially given that the background to the case is the report simple to be serious, which these very actors were behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e795	I can assure you that this is a work the government is taking seriously. That's why it's a work that's been top priority the weeks I've been a municipal minister. We have had many meetings with representatives of the construction industry. It's big, it's important, and it's holding up all over the country. It consists of many small, many medium-sized and some large enterprises, and the challenges are quite different. They're very different whether you're working with masonry or you're a carpenter. There are also very many actors and many interest groups. I am responsible for the central approval authority. It has been a major debate on this. It's a code that's been patched up for 20 years now, and it's time to do a more thorough job. I feel that the parties agree very much on that. We've taken the parties' input seriously and invited them to make representations about who's going to sit in an expert group, and it's simply to get to work that's manageable. The BNL alone has pointed to 14 representatives in a party selection. I don't think we can handle that. We therefore need to get experts who are confident in doing a job and make recommendations. Then we have invited the parties to sit in an advisory body and work closely on the experts. It is the parties who know their challenges, who have knowledge, and they can provide the necessary information and have a dialogue with the Expert Committee. So this is simply about putting in place a new code that is being followed equally throughout the country, but which the different groups also have confidence in. It's a lot of work, but it's an important piece of work that we, as I said, prioritise.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e806	I believe that the top experts in this field are those who represent the industry and the employees in these industries. And it is quite remarkable that the government does not listen to the recordings that come from the social partners to be taken seriously, to be involved in this work, but which are most graciously allowed to sit in a so-called reference group. I believe that it is no shame to turn to the Council of State, and I had met a signal that the parties would be invited to sit in this committee of experts. In parallel with this, however, the government has already accepted a new interpretation of the legislation of the Construction Quality Directorate, which allows a person to obtain central approval without permanent employees. This undermines the skilled worker, and it opens the door to unprofessional operators, to which the Workers' Party is strongly critical. Is the Council willing to reinterpret the legislation until the work on new legislation is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e813	I just have to stress: we take the parties' input very seriously. We have close dialogue, and I feel that we are very much in agreement that we need to put in place a new and appropriate legislation. But then there's a very big disagreement between the different groups about how this legislation should be, and then I'm concerned that we're getting a job that can give us some good advice based on the input from the parties. We need to take the knowledge they have very seriously, but we also need to get a job done and get a result of that work. We now have dialogue with the parties on how to deal with this interim period. When the directorate did an interpretation of the regulation, it was because they perceive not to have the authority for what they have demanded. We live in a state of law, we have to have a basis for the demands we make, but we are now in close dialogue with the parties on how the legislation should be until we have a new one in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e822	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Arild Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e827	I get no answer from the Council of State to what is my question. Is the Council willing to wait until the work of the Committee of Experts has been completed to reinterpret the legislation? I hear the Council of State is interested in getting a recording. There is clear evidence from an overall industry that the new interpretation of the legislation is detrimental to serious actors. An expert committee is now to be set up and action is to be taken. Is the Council willing to put the new interpretation on hold until work is done?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e832	I have answered the question. We're in dialogue with the parties about how we're going to behave now in an interim period. But I just have to repeat: we need to be allowed the requirements we set. We cannot make demands that we do not have the right to make. It is not legal under Norwegian law, it is not legal under the EEA Agreement. Therefore, we need to agree with the parties on how to behave in an interim period now, until we have a good and forward-looking system in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e841	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e855	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Health. Question 8, from the representative Tore Hagebakken to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health who directs him. At the request of the State Council, the question is moved and answered before question 15, to be answered by the same State Council. Question 11, from the representative of Mr Huitfeldt to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 16, from the representative Nina Sandberg to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, will be answered by the Minister for Older People and Public Health on behalf of the Minister for Research and Higher Education, who has left. The first question is from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre to the Minister of Health. Gahr Støre is not present, and we will then proceed to question 2, which is from the representative of Kari Henriksen to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e875	‘The Municipality of Kvinesdal is notified by the Vest, Vest-Agder IKS Municipal Audit Office that they will not certify the requirement for VAT compensation for the 6th of semester 2017 to the swimming pool, without taking into account the fact that this is considered in competition with private operators. With this practice, the absence of VAT compensation could mean closed municipal bathing and swimming facilities throughout the country. What will the Council of State do to ensure that bathing and swimming facilities will continue to be accessible and affordable for all, and not just for those with a good economy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e882	Framework financing is the main principle for financing the municipal sector. The fact that municipalities have freedom of action is important for the service to be well adapted to local needs and for the efficient use of local resources. It is up to each municipality to prioritize between good purposes in its municipality. The state contributes by providing municipalities with good and predictable financial framework conditions. The economic situation in the municipalities is good and has been strongly strengthened during this government. The real growth in the total income of the local government sector is estimated at 2.4 pst. annual in the four-year period from 2013 to 2017, against 2 pst. from 2009 to 2013. The government is concerned that our children will learn to swim, regardless of income. The government has followed up the strategy against child poverty. In the 2018 budget agreement, 30 million were prioritised. kr more for swimming training in kindergarten, so that the grant now amounts to 66 million. kr. In the case of the VAT compensation scheme for the municipal sector, it is based on self-determination. This means that the municipality itself provides the basis for VAT compensation in the tax notification. If the tax office examines this determination, the municipality may appeal against the decision. The Tax Directorate is the Board of Appeal, and the municipality may also bring the case before the courts. The Ministry of Finance is not a decision-making authority, so I cannot go into individual cases. Municipalities are initially outside the VAT system and, because of their lack of right to deduct, have an incentive to produce their own rather than to buy goods and services from others. The purpose of the compensation scheme is to counter this distortion of competition by providing compensation for VAT to municipalities. Thus, the compensation scheme is not a support scheme for the municipal sector. Municipalities also operate outside their core area and can offer a range of services that are partly provided in competition with private actors, such as the public sector. offer of sport through swimming facilities. As a general rule, sport is exempt from VAT. In that case, there is neither a right to deduct VAT nor a right to compensation. In such cases, compensation granted to municipalities would discriminate against private and local authorities. The aim of the rules is to ensure a level playing field and therefore no compensation is granted to municipalities in so far as they have economic activity in competition with other service providers. This rule was introduced in 2008, after ESA concluded that parts of the compensation scheme were in breach of State aid law. The purpose of the compensation rules is not to privatise municipal activities but to ensure that municipal and private activities in the same market are treated in a non-discriminatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e905	Thanks for the answer. In terms of predictable framework conditions, as I understand it, these rules have changed during the construction period, but that is another matter. I record that the government is using the ESA code, and they also get criticism that they are using this code without carefully assessing the scope of action it provides. In the reduced Hjelmeng selection, KS and LO have taken it in some areas of that sample, precisely on the basis of this relationship between private and municipal services. L.O. economist Reegård even says that the government has turned its back on ESA. Can the Minister of Finance guarantee to Stortinget that there is no room for action to solve this by other means?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e916	This code is known. It's known for Stortinget, it's known to the municipalities, it's known to the actors. This is a piece of legislation that we have to follow. This is a problem that comes up at regular intervals in Stortinget, but the legislation has been known for many years, including under previous governments. The problem is not the regulation itself. I think at least we should agree that non-discrimination between private and public operators in the same business is a prerequisite. That is why this legislation came into place in its time. It is therefore not a support scheme. Then, of course, the municipalities themselves need to figure out how they want to solve the organisation of different offers to their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e921	I record that the Minister of Finance guarantees that there is no other room for action in these cases. But the reality is that Kvinesdal and other municipalities lose income because they have to compensate for this loss of VAT. For Kvinesdal municipality, that means between 13 and 14 million. kr. And so they're going to be in the state treasury instead of in the municipal register. It is possible that it will contribute to the financing of the tax cuts that the government has in progress. The alternative for municipalities to pay this is either that they have to borrow, or that they have to take it from the fund reserve. They've got a 14-million-dollar cultural budget. NOK, and they may then have to pay the repayment of loans of around NOK 700000 in instalments. This will affect the provision of services, for example: cultural activities of children and young people and public health activities in the municipality. What will the Council of State do to ensure that children and young people have reasonable access to bathing facilities and do not have to reduce the activity of the cultural offer in Kvinesdal and other municipalities that will be affected, such as: Buddy? Will she return the income she collects?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e928	The question suggests that the representative speaks on the regulatory page. This is not a regulation intended as a support scheme for the municipal sector. It is intended as a zero game to facilitate non-discrimination in competition between operators operating in the same market. I thought the Workers' Party agreed to that, especially because this legislation came into place under a previous government. That being said, this government has given priority to the efforts of children and young people, among other things. through strong municipal budgets over several years, which have made the local economy stronger than it has been in many years, thus enabling municipalities to give priority to the most important tasks, which I think we can agree on, among other things. is about children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e933	Then we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e941	This question, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e946	I am sorry that I was absent from the beginning of the meeting. ‘The Minister of State has had a lucrative commitment to both the UN’s Millennium Goal and the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal. But the new sustainability targets are very comprehensive: 17 targets and 169 targets. Norwegian development policy cannot have full speed in all directions at the same time. We must give priority. The Stoltenberg II government prioritised in particular maternal and paediatric health, thousand-year-olds 4 and 5. What will the government do to achieve sustainability targets 3.1. – that by 2030 the world society will reduce maternal mortality to less than 70 per 100,000 live births?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e955	On behalf of the Prime Minister, I would like to answer this important question. The UN Sustainable Development Goal involves a time separation in development policy. The objectives are ambitious and universal and focus on partnership and cooperation between countries. In the Jeløya platform, the Blue-Green Government states that human rights and the UN's sustainability objectives are to be the overall framework of development policy. Within sustainability targets, the government will select some areas where Norway has particularly good conditions to make a difference. The government further developed the Norwegian global health leadership. Our priorities testify to long-term leadership and commitment to the work of sexual and reproductive health and rights. Norway has a rights-based approach and supports the work on access to safe abortion and means of contraception and combating sexual mutilation and child and forced marriage. Overall health assistance is high in record terms and targets women, children and young people in particular. Reduced maternal mortality, sustainability objective 3.1, is a high priority within the government’s health effort. Reduced maternal mortality was also one of the thousand-year targets that was not achieved and that was therefore passed on. The government contributes to this through a number of targeted efforts. The Prime Minister participated in the launch of the Global Finance Facility Every Woman Every Child, GFF, in 2015. Norway is today the largest contributor to the GFF, with a GDP of 3.6 billion. kr for the period 2015-2020. The GFF aims to ensure universal access to healthcare, in particular prevention, maternity and maternity services and services for children and young people. At the same time, efforts are being made to ensure a transition to long-term domestic funding in order to ensure sustainability. In the light of the international movements She Decides and Family Planning 2020, which mobilise the rights of girls to determine their own bodies and futures and to increase access to prevention, the government has committed itself to increasing investment in sexual and reproductive health and rights by 700 million. kr between 2017 and 2020, with particular emphasis on access to safe abortion, prevention and sexual education. Central partners in addition to the GFF are the UN Population Fund, UNAIDS, UNESCO, UNICEF and, in particular, civil society organisations. The efforts of these organisations are at the heart of our efforts to reduce maternal mortality. Teenage pregnancies and childbirth pose a significantly higher risk of death in mother and child than in later life. This is why the government’s efforts for girls’ education focus on continuing girls at school, which is an important contribution in this area. Sexual education is another important area, and Norway hosted an expert meeting on sexual education in December 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e974	I thank you for your answer. In its extension, the Council of State refers to another topical and serious issue in the field of international women’s health, and it deals with access to prevention and safe abortions. He mentioned it several times. I remember that the president of the United States – with seven men around him in the Oval Office – published a few years ago a cut in all funding for abortion guidance organisations. The restrictions apply to aid of a total of 9 billion. dollar. That is when all this effort has been hit pretty hard. The Dutch Minister for Development mobilised a large conference in Brussels to compensate for the Americans' cutbacks, where she thanked the co-organisers Belgium, Denmark and Sweden and the countries that had notified its support for the initiative: Canada, Cape Verde, Estonia, Finland and Luxembourg. Unfortunately, Norway was neither in the first, second or third row of this important fight for women’s rights. The question is, what will the government do to prevent the serious consequences of these cuts, both politically and economically?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e983	Norway works multilaterally with UN organisations, in particular with UNFPA, the UN population programme, as well as a number of international organisations, such as the International Planned Parenthood Federation, IPPF, where a youth counsellor, clinics for testing HIV and other gender diseases, guidance on prevention and safe abortion and mother/child health services. Local organisations work with information and influence to ensure that the authorities comply with sexual and reproductive health rights. IPPF also deals with sexual education for young people who have dropped out of school and have an effort to combat sexual harassment. It is important that the international community prepare and support this work. In the last ten years, Norwegian aid has been in excess of 40 million. kr annually. Now there's an increase in support. During these days, Norad is concluding a new cooperation agreement with IPPF of 292 million. kr over 4 years. This means that the annual aid will increase to 73 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e992	It was the economy. We know that Norway has money in the aid budget that can be distributed, and the aid budget has increased. What I am calling for are politically visible initiatives. I have praised the Prime Minister for the initiative she has taken on young girls' right to education, but this is a political matter towards the US administration, which has removed 9 billion. dollar. Now the Council of State can't answer whether this was a topic in the conversation the Prime Minister had with President Trump, but how does Norway work politically to create both mobilization for new resources and not least attitudes in this area? Then I think it's not enough just to work towards the special organizations of the United Nations system that are involved in population, women, children and development. We should also work towards them, but in terms of working politically towards other governments and mobilising support and support and upliftment: what action or initiatives does the government plan in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e999	As I also said in my first reply: the Prime Minister has taken a leading role in this work internationally through several initiatives, precisely to raise the importance of women's health and to work with it also politically, through the measures for which the representative himself has praised the Prime Minister, but not least through the leading role that the Prime Minister has taken in increasing efforts for the education of young girls, which is also crucial in this area. Norway, of course, works internationally at different venues to raise this issue in other countries too, but Norway has to show that we are going ahead with a good example, and we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1006	Then we go to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1014	‘Bane NOR has concluded the contracts with the company Condotte on Follobanen. The work was stopped immediately, and the employees did not receive a salary after that. This has led to much frustration and conflict. If the condotte fails to pay the employees wages, calls for tenders or goes bankrupt, the government's remuneration guarantee scheme could be terminated. In other words, the Norwegian State may have to pay the employees of an Italian company. Does the Council of State consider this to be a good use of public funds?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1021	The Folloban Tunnel is an important part of the development of the railway around Oslo. It's one of the priority sections that it's important to arrange, so that you can get a better offer on the railways both to Eastfold and Akershus and on the railways in general. It has therefore been important for the government to ensure that work on the Folloban tunnel is well advanced. When Condotte experienced economic challenges, Bane NOR was on the ball quickly to ensure that there were no delays, and to ensure that there were no cost increases. Therefore, their conclusion was also relatively rapid that the contract as it was today had to be terminated in order to avoid problems for the project. They have, and we see that the work is going on. We see that most people are at work, so the overall description that can be interpreted from the question is not entirely comprehensive. But that it's a group of people who have problems, that's the case. That is why I am pleased that we in Norway have a welfare system that protects employees if their employer comes into a liquidity crisis, reports a call and therefore does not pay wages. That is the point of the pay guarantee scheme – just to ensure that employees do not get hurt when the employer has problems. I am therefore pleased that the system is working. I am pleased that those affected have the opportunity to apply to Nav to ensure that the money comes. I have also registered that after the question was submitted, it seems that this has been resolved. I am not going to put myself into the deposit or pay guarantee scheme – it is not I who manage – but I am concerned that those who work on the railway project will be properly treated, and that the public schemes that exist are put into effect when needed, so that they feel that they have a safe job and get the pay they are going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1030	The question is essentially not about the pay guarantee scheme as a scheme, because it is a very good system, and we have to call about it. It is clear that the employees who have worked in Condotte, as I understand it, have set up a Norwegian company working at Follobanen, to get paid, and I understand that this is the pay during the notice period, i.e. February and March. I have also received information from the Norwegian Arbeitsmandsförbund that in any case some of the employees, I do not think everyone, have been paid in the meantime. The special thing here is that we have such good welfare arrangements in Norway as the pay guarantee scheme is. At Follobanen, the state chose an Italian company. Then the state terminates the contract with the company, and the end of the visa can therefore be that the Norwegian community has to pay salaries to employees of an Italian company through its pay guarantee scheme. Does the Minister for Transport think this is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1039	There are many companies with foreign owners operating in Norway, but as I think we should be happy to come under the Norwegian welfare regimes when they operate in Norway after all. Many of the major industrial enterprises are partly foreign. I do not want us to exclude those companies from either unemployment benefit, pay guarantee schemes or anything else. What is an important prerequisite for the remuneration guarantee scheme is that the employer’s contribution must have been paid in the employment relationship to the social security fund. So this doesn't apply to Italians who have been sitting in Rome and projecting this project, etc. They are not part of the scheme. Those who have worked in the tunnel in Norway — they may as well be Norwegians as Italians, but they have been employed in this company. I think we should take care of those who do a job in Norway, who pay their taxes to Norway. They shall be subject to those arrangements. Sitting and doing a discretionary assessment of whether a Northman, because he's an employee of an Italian company, should not share in the benefits of the Norwegian welfare community, is an approach I don't want to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1046	We're happy about that, and I don't think anyone has that either. Of course, those who have worked in Norway, in a company that I understand is Norwegian, and who have paid taxes to Norway because of what they have earned in Norway, will of course have rights like others. But this raises some broader issues. The company as such is Italian. There are questions about what the government wants with the Norwegian construction industry, which is a major and important industry. In other areas, we adopt objectives, and the government provides strategies and important documents to support the industry – whether it be maritime food, tourism, industry, technology or whatever it may be. We – and the authorities – often have a policy to develop those industries. Now we have to start looking at the Norwegian construction industry as an industry under which it is important to support it. Therefore, we should now learn from what has happened to a number of foreign companies in Norwegian transport projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1053	I think it is good when the Workers' Party says it is time to look at the Norwegian construction industry. We've been doing that for a long time. Therefore, we have been very concerned that we should facilitate Norwegian contractors to win contracts, and we have not traveled abroad to recruit the contractors – as my predecessor Marit Arnstad did. She went to Germany to make the Norwegian entrepreneurial market more open to foreign entrepreneurs. When you look at who wins contracts under today's government, in 2017 it was largely only Norwegian company that won Norwegian railway contracts. It was mostly only Norwegian companies that won road contracts. The results are so far that the Norwegian entrepreneurs are doing much better now than in recent years the representative Myrlis party put in government. It is a sign that this government already took the first day of the government seriously that Norwegian entrepreneurs have to secure their job. With regard to the issue raised by the representative Myrli, we believe that a company like Hurtigruten is over 80 pst. owned by non-resident shareholders. Does this mean that the employees who were also not to be included in the pay guarantee scheme? It would be the wrong discussion to start, as the representative Myrli here adds. I do not recommend further follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1062	I'm not adding up to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1070	We're both rogalendings, and Höie's well-known that ‘New Stavanger Hospital shall be clear in 2023, but without a patient’s hotel and with the general rule that birthers are sent home on the same day as birth’, which is now known as the Right’s ‘fixed track’ births. ‘Professionals have warned against this weakening of the provision of maternity. In the disagreement between the economic and medical councils, the economy and savings have won through. What action will the Council of State take to ensure that the provision of maternity leave is not weakened, and is it right to listen only to the economic advice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1079	The representative Tvedt Solberg claims that when new Stavanger hospitals are ready in 2023 without a patient hotel, birthing as a general rule will be sent home on the same day of birth. He also makes a number of other claims in relation to his question. I have obtained information from the Health West. Let me give you some very clear and clarifying information. Today, the women's clinic uses a floor in the patient's hotel for midwives. This is an area of the patient hotel that has been converted for the purpose, and it is staffed as an ordinary maternity ward. The reason for this solution is lack of space in today's hospital. All somatic daily operations are to be introduced into a new hospital building at Ullandhaug in Stavanger from 2023. The new hospital is only built with exclusive rooms, which will be arranged with a bed area for a family member. Health West reports that it is not planned for fewer beds for pregnant women than today. The number of rooms currently located in the patient hotel is included in the total number of the new hospital – the claim is therefore incorrect. It is not right that Health Stavanger aims to send birthers home on the same day – that claim is also incorrect. Health Stavanger, in close cooperation with the municipalities in the reception area, has started work on improving maternity care in line with national guidelines. The starting point for work is that maternity, maternity and maternity care should be comprehensive and provide the best possible health care for women and children. Health Stavanger shall, in cooperation with the municipal health and care services, facilitate an offer whereby mother and children shall have the opportunity to leave their previous home from the hospital if they so wish and the state of health indicates that it is sound. I am concerned that Health Stavanger is planning operations in line with medical advice and national professional guidelines. I do not agree with the claim that the maternity allowance at the new hospital will be weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1094	I thank you for the answers that came, but I find that there were no answers to the questions I asked, why the economy has become the leading decision-making process, and whether the Council of State will take action. It seems that the Council of State is once again doing disclaimer, but I also hear that he confirms that the government is defending the new scheme of early repatriation for the natives. I would like an answer, when I draw a picture of the extent and seriousness of the situation that is, of the weakening of the offer. More than a year ago, there were warnings from the Norwegian Women’s and Family Association, which the Council of State Höie characterised as a scare campaign, and the professionals have continued to warn. I can mention the Federation of midwives, the Association of midwives and the Norwegian Association of Nurses, and now several newly-baked parents have also joined the debate. At home in Stavanger it seems that the parole of March 8th on the maternity offer will gather many. It has been notified of a ‘wagon train’ for better maternity provision. State Council Höie has again managed to mobilize to new records on Women's Day, as under the right of reservation. So the question now is, is he at all concerned about the obvious warnings that come from professionals about a weakened provision of maternity, and is there anything that the Council of State will do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1103	It may almost seem that the representative had a written question about follow-up, which did not take my answer into account, because he got the answer – that the claims he made on the question were incorrect. There is no mention of a reduction in the capacity of the maternity allowance at the new hospital. The capacity of the department at the patient hotel today, which is staffed as a maternity ward, will be continued in the new hospital. It is not right that the new hospital should be planned on the basis that birthing women should be sent home on the first day. That's why I hope the representative instead of repeating this is involved in bringing down the fear that's created in the population through these claims. The supply of birthing women in Norway will continue, as it is now, to be developed on the basis of professional recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1110	My question was about the concerns of the professionals, and of course I have with me the concerns about things in my notes to support this. So I'm not saying that my answer is done. I note that the Council of State still does not respond to his responsibility to follow up the concerns of both the professionals and the parents in these matters – whether it is the concrete new hospital in Stavanger, or whether these are the general concerns about the provision of maternity services that we see across the country. Ultimately, this is a question that concerns both the hospital economy and the municipal economy – about hospitals and municipalities are able to do this job. I think it is serious that the Minister of Health so much rejects the concerns of both professionals and parents and calls it scare propaganda, because it is in no way. My question, which I hope the Council of State will be able to answer on one last occasion, is what he will do to meet these concerns, which are both with professionals and with parents – or whether he will just let this scour and go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1119	I will continue to refute misclaims about offers that are being developed, because it helps to create unnecessary concerns both in pregnant women and in the professionals. I hope the representative can join in, so that people don't become unnecessarily concerned. The second is that I work to constantly improve the situation in the hospitals. That is why, as Minister of Health, I have committed myself to the state budgets for which I have been responsible for five years, a higher growth in patient treatment than the Labour Party has been able through its eight years in government. It is about facilitating continued positive development in hospitals. In addition, the blue-green government – in cooperation with the Christian People's Party – has a significant commitment to the offer in the municipalities through the construction of the midwife service there, by granting more than 1 billion in the last few years. kr just for this. We do that in concrete terms to strengthen the offer and remove unjustified concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1129	‘In winter we have been able to read about young people with severe eating disorders who experience having to wait for treatment for up to six months. Mother of a 22-year-old girl has told the newspaper that ‘waiting for several months is very long when someone is so bad. It's scary to think that she's been dead almost twice." Is the Council of State confident that persons with severe eating disorders will receive the assistance they need in time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1136	No, I'm busy reducing the waiting time for this patient group, and I'm also busy improving the treatment offer, because I experience the same thing the representative mentions, that there are too many feedback from this patient group that the offer is not good enough. It should not be that you have to wait several months to get proper health care when you are seriously ill. We now follow this up, for example. through the establishment of package trajectories, the development of better indicators and the management of hospitals. The waiting times for specialised mental health care have narrowed, and the deadlines are almost gone. In 2013, the average waiting time to start health care was 54 days. In 2016 it had decreased to 46 days. I think it's positive, but it's not a development that I'm satisfied with – I want the waiting time to go down further. We have introduced a priority rule relating to mental health protection and drug treatment that I work with hospitals to make them even more effective, and waiting time is one of the indicators used to monitor whether this is done. There are specific challenges related to the treatment of demanding conditions that require special skills, such as: severe eating disorders. This means that some patients have to wait a long time for proper specialist treatment after they have been diagnosed and have received first treatment at a general psychiatric unit or outpatient clinic. I believe that this is very much about how we organise the service, how we prioritise, how we do not listen well enough to what is the user's wishes and experience, and sometimes it is also about lack of knowledge and qualified staff. The first package steps in the fields of mental health and alcohol are to be set in motion for the autumn. A total of 15 different package trajectories are planned to be implemented from 2018 to 2020. Several of these are general procedures for investigation and treatment, which apply independently of diagnosis. A separate package of eating disorders for children and young people is also planned. The aim is precisely to create predictability, better interaction, shorter waiting times and, in particular, more influence from patients on treatment. In 2017, the Health Directorate launched new national professional guidelines for the investigation and treatment of eating disorders, which should also contribute to better and proper treatment. In the context of the National Health and Hospital Plan 2019 and the child and adolescent mental health programme, I will draw attention to several areas that are also important in order to provide this patient group with a better range of services than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1151	The matter to which I referred is, of course, very serious, because it's a serious sick patient, but unfortunately it's also so that very many people with eating disorders are rejected in healthcare because they're not sick enough. What thoughts does the Minister of Health have on the socio-economic impact, but in particular on the individual patient, it has that people with eating disorders are not treated because they are not ill enough – are not underweight enough, if they are anorexics – and then come back to health care later, when the condition is significantly worse and so far you have not managed to improve the waiting times in line with the ambitions expressed by the Council of State here?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1156	I mean, it's not good enough. That is why I am also concerned that we are developing a low-threshold mental health service in the municipalities. It's a work we're doing well. We are building up psychological skills in municipalities with earmarked resources and a legal requirement, and we are now seeing a sharp increase in the number of municipalities that employ psychologists, just as early help is provided through the health station and the school health service, which is also being expanded. At the same time, I am concerned that there are too many patients who are rejected in mental health in situations such as: the decision maker finds that he does not have a good enough offer locally, asks for assistance from the specialist health service and is rejected. We also see that there are too many variations in practice related to rejection. That's something that health regions are now working on, and that's also one of the reasons why we, among other things. have raised mental health as a main theme of the next National Health and Sickness Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1161	I thank the Council of State for its response so far. One of the things about eating disorders is that you often need treatment in a combination of psychiatry and somatic medicine. The Councils of State point out the waiting times and the need to bring them down, but also the importance of maintaining user perspective. There is a dilemma when it comes to these patients – that they should manage their own treatment, and that they should actually receive health care. Does the Council of State have any idea of how the service currently performs this most centrally in an eating disorder, namely the ambivalence between dealing with an autonomous patient and providing the necessary health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1166	This is something that makes this very complicated. But there's also a difference between patients in this area. Therefore, I am concerned that there is a width of the offer, so that one can find offers that are suitable for the individual patient. Therefore, this is part of the free choice of treatment, where alternative treatment sites are also available, which are operated by private and non-profit institutions. Some of these are the themes of the updated technical guidelines. Ensuring better coordination of services across borders is, of course, one of the things that package trajectories should contribute to, and one of the reasons why we have just chosen eating disorders as one of the diagnostic-specific package pathways in mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1174	‘Research shows that male diseases are ranked consistently higher among doctors and user organisations than those primarily affecting women, such as: fibromyalgia, anxiety, anorexia, ovarian and femoral fractures. There are also examples of less resources being used for the treatment of women than for men. How does the government work to ensure that women’s diseases are taken as seriously as ‘manly diseases’, and what can the Council of State indicate by concrete action?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1181	Equality and non-discrimination are a fundamental principle of Norwegian healthcare. The gender perspective in health has received particular attention since the publication of the women’s health strategy more than 10 years ago. The government's aim is for women and men to have equal quality services. In creating the patient’s health care, it is important to view gender as one of the variables that affects the patient’s health. Constant attention to gender in health is needed if we are to succeed in fully integrating the gender perspective into the sector. The Health Directorate has been mandated to ensure that gender specificity is addressed in all professional guidelines and guidance where appropriate. This is part of the follow-up to the gender equality message that came in 2015. In the national professional guideline on the treatment and rehabilitation of people with drug problems and addiction, the theme has been raised. The guideline places particular emphasis on gender-specific approaches, minorities and sexual orientation in drug treatment. The Health Directorate shall also assess gender-related differences in the use of medicinal products. The Health Directorate will look at how to develop an overall methodology to ensure gender equality in services, for example: using quality indicators and other measurement parameters related to health records. Muscle and skeletal disorders are very common in the population. More women than men are hit. At the same time, many people feel that they are not getting adequate help for their disease. The government therefore wants to develop and introduce the package pathways also for muscle and skeletal disorders, fatigue and pain management, in order to ensure an equivalent offering of high quality for all patients. These are diseases where women are overrepresented. Women’s health and gender perspective are also part of the Ministry of Health and Welfare’s strategic research effort. Among other things, the initiative will contribute to more research into the health of older women, undesirable differences in the provision of health and services between women and men, the health of minority women and the mental health of young women. Diseases leading to long-term sick messages and disability in women are also research areas of interest. Health research will focus more on issues related to gender inequality and will be linked to the follow-up to gender equality messages. In 2017, research funding was announced in cooperation with the three health research programmes TREATMENT, RELATIONSHIP AND HEALTH. In total, 19 projects have been funded between 2004 and 2014. In addition, several ongoing projects are relevant to women’s health, both in the Research Council’s health programmes and in the other programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1196	I thank you for your answer. In Norway, we think about equality on all fronts, and there's something to be proud of. Even I'm trained as a health professional and probably the first male mammographer in Telemark, and I'm proud of that. That's why I've always had a big heart for health and gender issues. So on to a serious follow-up issue: a report from Oslo Economics recently showed that Norway spends an average of NOK 6,000 more on cancer treatment in men than in women. In addition, differences in funding for both treatment and research on cancer in men and in women are seen. Does the Council of State think this discrimination is right – and if not, what has he done to change this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1207	It is one of the perspectives that was just raised in my original answer – that there is a recognition of gender differences in health, and that is the background for this, among other things. towards the allocation of research funds, precisely to compensate for what has been the result of a development in which research into human health has been focused and where, in particular, treatment and the effects of medicinal products have been focused on men. This is something that starts as early as the animal trials, where a user and test on only male mice instead of also on female mice, for example. avoiding variations associated with the health of women. So this is a fundamental and important question that needs to be followed up as broadly as what I explained in my original answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1212	The Minister for Health knows that mental health challenges among young people can have serious health consequences. We also know that such challenges are also important for many young people to drop out of high school. The most recent figures from the Young Data Survey showed a 40 pst. Increases in mental disorders in young girls – the incidence of depression, anxiety, disturbed eating and exercise behaviour is increasing every year. Although we see an increase also in boys, there is a much more dramatic and marked increase among young girls who are struggling. What does the Council of State think about these differences, and what action does he think should be taken to change this trend?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1219	I think it's a broad question and therefore one of the reasons why the government has raised mental health as an equal part of public health work, so I think we have to start thinking about how to strengthen mental public health in the whole population. In many ways, there is a kind of paradox in the Young Data Surveys, because they show that girls are more successful in school, less likely to fall out, get better grades, start higher education, while they are struggling more with their mental health. Young boys drop out of school more easily, etc., and get challenges in life with it, but have fewer challenges with their mental health. So here, there are also gender differences, and as I also said in my original answer, researching young women's, young girls', mental health is a priority area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1229	‘The use of painkillers by young people against headaches and migraines is record high. From 2006–2016, the increase in age 15 to 19 has been 66 per cent, between 20 and 24 years of age 29 per cent, and between 25 and 29 years of age 16 per cent. The numbers are from the Recipe Register. 120,000 do not tolerate medicine for headaches due to over-consumption, shows a doctorate study conducted by the NRK on 17 February. What will the Council of State do to prevent over-consumption and misuse of painkillers, and will he consider to prescribe medicines that are currently non-prescription?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1236	The representative Kjersti Toppe shows that the consumption of painkillers for headaches and migraines among young people has increased. The statistics referred to include migraine medicines, all of which are prescribed on prescription. The fact that more people are receiving migraine drugs may indicate that there is an increased attention to migrants and that more people are being treated correctly under medical supervision. In 2016, 2,821 girls and 2,225 boys picked up paracetamol on prescription. Overall, the number of users of paracetamol on prescription has increased steadily from 2007 to 2016 among children and young people, and use increased especially for girls and boys aged 10-17 years. The use of prescription-free medicines, especially paracetamol, has remained virtually unchanged since the sale in the store was authorised in 2004. Non-prescription medicinal products are mainly used for everyday use in the otherwise healthy part of the population. It is important to prevent over-use and misuse of medicinal products, especially among children and young people. Therefore, good information on the use of non-prescription medicinal products is important. At the same time, it is essential that the availability of medicinal products used in self-care is good. Therefore, some medicinal products sold in non-prescription packs are allowed both in pharmacies and through the LUA system – the sale of non-pharmacies. LUA medicines are a good supplement and are important for good self-care in simple and moderate conditions such as pain and fever. It is the State Medicines Agency that assesses the prescription status of the medicinal products and determines the medicinal products to be available in the LUA scheme. The Medical Products Agency does not consider that there is a need for prescription coating of small packages, such as: paracetamol or ibuprofen. Prescription coatings are unlikely to have a significant preventive effect. The population would lose access to good medicine in acute situations, and the caregivers would have a significantly increased workload.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1247	Governments argue against making prescription-free medicinal products subject to prescription, and that is a position that I know the Council of State has. But I want to ask you again if the Council of State didn't think it was alarming that one in ten years has had an increase of 66 pst. in the use of painkillers among young people aged 15 to 19. I don't think it's due to an increase in disease, I think it's due to an increase in use, and I'm worried that that use can't be proven, so there's an excess in the population. So we know that there are 120,000 people who have drug-induced headaches in Norway, that's an excess of painkillers. If you do not want to look at prescription requirements, what will the Council of State do to prevent overconsumption of painkillers in the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1256	I am very concerned about the proper use of medicine. It is also one of the reasons why there was a central theme in the notification of medicinal products, and it is important that a person works against the prescribers in order to ensure the proper use of medicinal products. But what I'm experiencing is that every time this question is put on the agenda, the representative Toppe's answer is to prescribe the non-prescription medicines. It was also suggested on this question. I think that's a paradox given that the increase is among those drugs that already have prescriptions, while the sale of prescription-free drugs in this area is more or less flat. Discussing how to ensure that we use the right medicines and instruments for it is an important discussion, but then I hope we can get further from the discussion on whether to prescribe prescription-free medicines, which are essentially Toppe's answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1261	I'm just asking about what is the Council of State's alternative measures, but I'm not getting an answer to that. It is true that there are 120 000 people who have induced drug headaches, and so the government will not answer what the government will do to prevent this from happening. One thing that has happened under this government is that one has opened up to advertising on television for painkillers. It was not in the previous period. So I see that this government says that now one should go in to ban advertising of gambling. That's about. 120,000 who have problems because they are dependent on it — as many people today have problems with them using too much painkillers. One does it for the people who depend on the game. Will the Council of State do the same in the field of health and ban advertising on television for non-prescription painkillers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1268	I like to talk about what we do to get the right medicine, but once again, the representative draws up a proposal that includes prescription-free medicines, and that's not where we have the increase, so it's on prescription drugs. The advertising of prescription medicines on television in Norway is not allowed. It is for non-prescription medicines. We are now working on establishing the patient's medical list. It will be an important instrument for proper use of medicinal products. We demand that those who are going to work as permanent doctors be specialists in general medicine. It will enhance the competence and quality of this important part of the service. We also work on different models of how to operate with colleague guidance in key areas. There we have seen a positive effect, especially with regard to the use of antibiotics, which has been a priority area now, but it is an instrument that can also be used in other priority areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1277	Question 8 will be addressed before question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1285	«Migrants hit people in work class professions twice as often as leaders. Women are hit three times as often as men. Data from the Register of Recipes show that record numbers of young people use migraine drugs. Two to four times more women than men aged 15 to 29 are on such drugs. So the migrants are not a disease for middle-class people in the middle of life. There we put money and other resources into research and treatment. What has the Council of State done to improve the situation of migrants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1292	The representative Auchrust asks what I've done for people with the diagnosis of the migrants. I would first like to clarify that I am concerned that everyone should receive good health and care services, regardless of diagnosis, sex, age, profession, etc. It is my main task and my responsibility to establish a comprehensive health and care service that provides good health care to all. It's a fact that more women than men get the diagnosis of migrants. The fact that more people get the diagnosis, and that more people get migraine drugs, may indicate that there is an increased attention to migrants, and that diagnostics have improved. It is good that more people receive proper treatment under medical supervision. Living with migrants has great consequences – both for individuals and for society. Chronic disease, like the migrants, affects the quality of life and can make it difficult to master everyday life. Learning and mastering offers can be useful. Improving such offers is a central objective in several of the messages I made during the previous period of government, among others. in the primary health service message. For example, many headache patients have the benefit of learning to identify trigger factors that may trigger headaches and establish strategies to avoid them. Last fall, I presented national brain health strategy. It is about the responsibility of health and care services to care for good brain health. This includes prevention and health promotion, early intervention, investigation, treatment, rehabilitation, research and innovation. It's about lifting up the individual's ability to promote one's own brain health and mastering life with impaired function because of a brain disease. Education and training are essential, and training must include both staff in the services and patients. Migrants and other serious headaches are referred to in the brain health strategy as the largest group of brain diseases. Migrants are an important cause of disability, and headaches are a subject where health care skills are still lacking. The representative is concerned about what I've done, but I expect that he's also concerned about what we're going to do. I would like to give an example of an important measure. In order to strengthen the offer of chronically ill patients, we start this spring a primary health team trial as a follow-up to the previous mentioned primary health report. Lawyers in a primary health team, in cooperation with nurses, will have better opportunities to follow up the list population with chronic diseases, such as migrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1307	Of course, I am most concerned about what the Council of State will do, but after four years in the post office I have to say that I am also interested in what he has done. He refers to the National Brain Health Strategy as – what to say – a major anti-migraine agent. That document says a lot of good and sensible, but the word'migres' is only mentioned once in that strategy. It's too small when we know that this is one of the major public health diseases. The WHO believes that this is one of the ten most stressful public health diseases globally, and it is a major social problem. We know that there are about 2 million days of absence from school or work because of the migrants today, as well as all those who provide reduced work due to pain and discomfort. My follow-up question is aimed specifically at what concerns young people, as we know, is the group that has the largest increase. What has the Council of State done to meet all the young people who are struggling with the migrants?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1312	I don't think one can assess the emphasis of the brain health strategy on migrants by counting the occurrences of the word "migres". The brain health strategy states that the migraines and other severe headaches are the largest group of brain diseases. To present a separate strategy for brain diseases that actually determines that this is the largest patient group is to take this issue and this disease group very seriously. The fact that one sees an increase in the treatment of a disease does not necessarily mean an increase in disease cases, which may mean increased knowledge of the disease and increased treatment options. Therefore, it is positive that more people are receiving migraine medicines, as this may indicate increased attention around migrants and that more people are being treated correctly under medical supervision. It's also, as I said in my answer, other treatment strategies that it's important that a developer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1319	I have a concern that there is too little knowledge about this in the health sector, and that the migrants do not receive the attention they deserve, either in the media or in the health sector, and that this is a disease that is not considered exciting enough or has a high level of performance among those who treat it. We know the migrants don't hit blindly. It hits people primarily in work class professions, and it hits women far more often than men. Unfortunately, there is every reason to believe that this disease had received much greater attention if it had hit men in leadership positions. This is why measures against migrants also have a class perspective and a gender perspective. My question to the Minister of Health now, the day before 8 March, is whether he agrees with the premise that working against migrants is getting too little attention precisely because it affects women the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1324	I agree that we have a general challenge in healthcare, including in Norway, in relation to the gender perspective, and I have also answered that in a previous question. That is one of the reasons why the Right-Fremskritspart government withdrew the red-green government's proposals for gender equality. It was because it didn't have its own health chapter. We believe that equality and health are a very important topic, so a new gender equality message was created, where health was a more central theme. We are just working to raise the gender perspective in health – from treatment to advanced research – and I fully agree that migrants are one of the diseases where there is a gender difference. That is why I am very pleased that we have presented a brain health strategy that points out that patients with migraines and headaches are a patient group that has not received a good enough offer. It also showed the process of working on the brain health strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1332	‘In 2018, as in the 1930s, semen donation in Norway is allowed. It helps couples where the man is infertile. In 2018, unlike in the rest of the Nordic region, there is still no law on egg donation. Couples where the woman is infertile and needs eggs from another woman, they don't get any help. In the debate on the NRK on 15 February, the Minister of Health pointed out that mother’s genetic connection is so important that egg donation should not be law, while father’s genetic connection is less important. Does the Council of State think that mother is a more important parent than father?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1339	On that question, I can answer unequivocally no. It is also not a completely correct representation of what was my point in that debate. What is the difference between sperm donation and egg donation is that in egg donation, one has a birthing woman who has the biological relationship with the child, while the woman has given the egg, who has the genetic connection. It actually makes it a difference between egg donation and sperm donation. But the equality, the ability to get help for assisted conception to the same extent when it's the woman who has a problem, as when it's the man who has it, is, of course, an argument for egg donation that I also recognize and acknowledge. The Government has provided a major communication on the evaluation of biotechnology, and a central theme addressed there is whether or not egg donation should be permitted in Norway. The message describes both arguments that speak for and arguments that speak against egg donation, without concluding it. I represent a party that has this discussion now. This discussion in my own party I want to participate in, although the government does not have a position on the matter. I would like to await the consideration of the EEAS which is now under consideration in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1352	I thank you for your answer. The argument previously used by the Council of State is that this should be at the best of the child. What's important here is that what's best for the child must be wanted – not that you can only be born by someone. For the Workers' Party, it is important that a child is given a safe home, regardless of whether you live in a home with foster parents, co-parents, adoptive parents or any other composition. In 2018, there will be different types of homes. What I ask and want to ask the minister is whether living with and knowing their genetic origin is the best thing for the child, or whether it is a strong desire.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1363	I think we fully agree that for a child the most important thing is to have safe adults. Therefore, the Right’s starting point in this discussion is that, regardless of the method used to give birth, a child should never be questioned. There is a cross-political consensus in Norway that one should not allow surrogati, but all children born through surrogati should, of course, be equally welcome and receive the same support as all other children. It must, of course, be possible to have a discussion — both medically and ethically — of which methods are acceptable. This is the current discussion in the Right. But this is definitely not about the basics, about all children having a good upbringing. And then it's part of the children's convention that children have the right to know their genetic and biological origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1368	The child will have more opportunity to know its origin if we allow this at home in Norway than if women need to go abroad to get this help. We know that's approx. 1000 women who have been in other countries and have received help from a foreign donor. As long as we do it in Norway and get it regulated, the more likely the child is actually getting to know its origin. I'm curious why the Council of State will allow sperm donation and not egg donation because of the parent's relationship with the child, when no biological connection or genetic connection to the child is obtained by semen donation at all. So once again, is mom more important here?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1375	No, Mother is not more important, but as I described in my first answer, however, a different situation arises in egg donation than in semen donation, which is part of the discussion. It is quite correct, as also emerges from the Storing Communication, that by allowing egg donation, there are likely to be a few more women who are able to carry out egg donation in Norway. However, there is no reason to believe that all women who wish to have egg donation carried out in Norway, thus receiving an offer in Norway, for Norway is strictly related to the international conventions relating to the transmission of germ cells. This means that, in reality, there will probably not be access to donor eggs to the extent that it will be needed. Therefore, although egg donation would be permitted in Norway, many would have to travel abroad to obtain that offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1392	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has gone away. So we go to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1402	‘According to the Evening Post, Nav has launched more than 216 000 measures for approx. 40,000 Northmen with Somali background. Despite this, they work with a Somali background less and have lower education and living conditions than other groups in Norway. Profo-scientist Jon Horgen Friberg believes Nav has spent money on a series of pointless courses. How can it be that the Minister of Labour does not conduct a more targeted policy to qualify more people for work so that they can support themselves and their families?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1409	Many Somali immigrants face major challenges in entering the labour market. Many have problems exploiting educational and qualification services, including: as a result of illiteracy. A significant proportion of the adult Somali immigrant population is more vulnerable in terms of poverty, poor housing and poor health. Many therefore rely on public benefits. This applies not only to Norway but also to other western countries. Labour market measures shall include, inter alia: contribute to the qualification of participants in the labour market. The government has taken a number of measures both to strengthen individual opportunities in the labour market and to reduce the perceived risk of employing vulnerable groups. We have strengthened the provision of basic skills and Norwegian training through the AMO and established a two-year vocational training scheme for people with weak formal qualifications. This training may provide formal secondary competence, in particular in the professional field. However, many Somali immigrants need more extensive qualifications than the training measures in Nav can offer. Last year, a report showed that the introduction programme contained too little truly qualifying instruments and that the results varied considerably from municipality to municipality. This takes the government very seriously. We will therefore give priority to the work of speeding up the entry of migrants with a refugee background by stimulating work and making demands. The Minister of Knowledge and Integration will reform the introduction programme and introduce clear expectations for good results and more labour-oriented actions. It shall be easier to acquire the necessary competences in the context of the introduction programme. It is necessary to cooperate across sectors in order to facilitate the combination of participation in the programmes with regular work, the renewal and improvement of Norwegian training and the provision of a good basis for learning and participation in working and social life. The State of work and welfare shall participate in this cooperation with the municipalities on the implementation of the individual introduction programme. The government has also taken the initiative of a broad inclusion framework with the aim of bringing vulnerable groups into work. Several actors will contribute to the effort, not least employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1422	During the previous period, the government presented in two key messages a number of measures to strengthen the work of qualification for work or education. Many of the measures have now been explained by the Minister of Labour. However, when Nav implements 216 000 measures for approx. 40,000 Norwegians with Somali background feel that she has succeeded in getting Norwegians with Somali background into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1427	As far as I understand from the Evening Post, this measure is implemented in the period 2002–2017, i.e. over a 15-year period. There's a lot that's happened over the 15 years. The introduction programme was introduced in 2004, was well, and has worked since 2004, and that is what has now been evaluated. Now you can see that it doesn't work well enough, and that's why the government has announced a reform of the introduction program. In addition, we presented a Nav message in 2016, where we show that we need to turn Nav more towards work than what has been before. We've cleaned up the portfolio of measures, we've cleaned up and simplified the regulations. We have also taken several new measures to reach the target group that we have not met in a good enough way in the past. There have been too many measures that have not produced sufficient results. We've mismeasured Nav. We have measured Nav based on the measures implemented and not on the results implemented. Everything that's changed now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1434	Fafo submitted an evaluation of the introduction programme in autumn. Fafo concluded that the measures in the scheme do not adequately qualify participants for what is required in the Norwegian labour market. Now the government is going to review the introduction system and bring new solutions and improvements. At the same time, the government said before Christmas that during 2018, 27 people will be finished in the introduction scheme and will go to work or education. They cannot wait for a reform of the introduction system; they are going into work and education now. Has the Council of State done enough to ensure that those who leave the introduction programme this year will get to work or in education?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1439	I'm going to be careful to have too many opinions about the introduction program, it's under another state council. But what the evaluation shows is that the scheme has not worked well enough. That is also the background for us wanting to reform the entire introduction programme. What I'm responsible for is to make Nav work better, to get action that works better for the target audience that is meant to reach. One of the important things about what we have done is that we opened up to get Norwegian training as a response. You couldn't do that before. We have opened up so that education could be taken as an action. You haven't been able to do it the same way before. And we now have more use of wage subsidies in ordinary activities, because we see that there are measures that work better to get people to work. But of course, we still have to work to simplify and improve Nav and make sure that they are more capable of qualifying people for work. That's where I think we're on the right track. And with this reform of the introduction programme in addition, we will achieve the objectives in an even better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1447	My question is, "30. In January 2018, Drammen’s Official Journal had a disturbing article about many young nurses aged 20 to 30 at Drammen Hospital who are unable to work fully due to the widespread use of the work environment regulations regarding working time and rest periods. Will the Council of State take the initiative to review legislation and practices in order to facilitate a full-time culture in our hospitals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1454	I agree with the representative that working time arrangements in the health and care sector must be such that conditions are conducive to a long and good professional life for health workers. At the same time, hospitals must be operated in such a way as to ensure good health care throughout the day and throughout the year. This is a very central and very important welfare offer for the Norwegian population. The specific working time arrangements in hospitals will be established through cooperation between employers, employees and their trustees. It is the employers and the trustees who know the situation of the individual workplace the best and who know what requirements result from the operation of the individual hospital. It is also possible to take account of the specific needs of some workers at work locally. If the working time arrangements require exceptions to the general rules of the law, they are currently implemented by agreement between the employer and the trustees. It may be done either at individual workplaces or with central organisations where the derogations are extensive. I assume that the employer, in cooperation with the parties involved in the work on tour plans, assesses the risks arising from the scheme, e.g.: in the case of night work and rest periods. The government will facilitate a full-time culture in Norwegian working life. The proportion of persons working part-time is highest in health and social services, trade in goods, education and in service professions in the state and municipal sectors. It is therefore very positive that municipalities and the health sector are actively working on this issue, such as: Kristiansand municipality has ambitions about when they now say that the positions to be published should be 100 % jobs. I would also like to mention that every moment, i.e. before Easter, the government will promote a legislative proposal to strengthen the provisions of the Working Environment Act on the right of priority for part-time employees to an extended position rather than new employment. This has been discussed by the representative Christoffersen and I in the past, and now this proposition is on its way to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1467	I thank you for your answer. I registered that the Council of State paid great attention to the fact that what we are talking about here is something that needs to be agreed locally. Now the tour described in Drammen is legal in the light of the Working Environment Act, but only in the case of the exemption rules. Trustees say that they do not actually have a real opportunity to discuss and that the tour deals are completed by the employer. On several occasions, the Council of State has expressed concern that sick leave does not go down quickly enough. She wants a pension scheme that encourages her to work longer. Research shows that short rest and frequent shifts provide increased sick leave. On average, nurses are on the job until they are 57 years old, and poorly organized turns affect female health in a negative direction. Will the Council of State take the initiative in tripartite cooperation, for example: in the context of a new IA agreement, for a better and more health-promoting organisation of the turn for nurses and other health-care professionals, where trustees are also effectively involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1474	It is the management of employees and their trustees in hospitals who are responsible for the development of sound tours, tours that take care of patients’ needs for day-to-day health care, but who, of course, also care for the health, environment and safety of employees – I kept saying – at work. Local care must be taken within the provisions of the law, regulation or collective bargaining agreement. There are different levels of where exceptions can be agreed, etc. Yesterday I had a meeting with the social partners of the Employment and Pension Policy Council, where we discussed a possible new IA agreement. The IA agreement expires during 2018. This means that 2018 is the year of any renegotiation of a new agreement. We have also agreed on how to proceed with this. I feel that there is a great interest in continuing to have an inclusive employment contract in some form. But I've also experienced that there's a lot of interest in changing it, just to see if we can reorganize it in another way in order to fulfill our intention in a better way than the results have shown so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1481	I thank you for your answer. I notice that the Council of State refers to the law and regulations. It's not something that's hogged down in the rock, it's something to do with. I also point out that as late as April 2016, when treating the gender equality message, the Right-wing-Fremskritsparti-regierung and the majority of the population said no to a proposal from the Workers' Party that the government should require health companies to reduce the use of part-time work. I had a certain hope when I saw the Jelaua platform, where the government says it will actually work for a full-time culture in the workplace. But what the Council of State then primarily addresses to the management of the individual hospital and the negotiations there leads to figures such as: from Vestre Viken HF in 2017: Of 290 announced positions were only 37 pst. full-time positions: is the Council of State a good starting point for ensuring the necessary recruitment for the health and care professions in the future, in line with what is actually on the Jeløya platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1488	No, it is quite obvious that it is difficult to obtain a full-time culture if employers – municipalities and hospitals – release small job breaks. This is the background to the government's desire to strengthen the preference of employees to a better position when they are published. That proposition will come before Easter. Then Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss it there. Recruitment to hospitals is difficult if job breaks are small, and it is clear that by strengthening the preference of employees for jobs, the possibility of getting more jobs is also increased. It is also important that municipalities, which are a large employer in these sectors, also look to Kristiansand and what they intend to do there, namely that posts to be published in the future should preferably be 100 % jobs. Here, municipalities, which are a large employer, have to take their responsibilities and publish larger job homes than many people do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1498	I would like to ask the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs the following questions: ‘In January 2016, the Government of a regulatory change removed the possibility of providing action grants to young people between 16 and 18 years of age. There would have been a limited amount of up to NOK 4000 per month as an incentive for those who fall out of school to participate in active measures. This is followed by reports of those who work to prevent exclusion among young people in, for example: The Groruddalen in Oslo, that they lack an important tool to work with young people who are at risk of having problems with crime, drugs and so on. Will the government reconsider this amendment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1507	The representative points to an important dilemma. On the one hand, action money may be an incentive to participate in actions from Nav, and on the other hand, the possibility of receiving action money may be sufficient to ensure that young people who are already at risk of dropping out of secondary education do so. Many young people who come to the Nav office have not completed their secondary education. The Nav Office cooperates closely with school and follow-up services to enable more people to complete the training. It is important that this cooperation works well and that the instruments are well suited for the follow-up of this group. The 18-year threshold for receiving action money was introduced because action money could be perceived as an incentive to leave secondary education to participate in Nav actions and receive action money. Unlike participation in labour market measures, there are no immediate economic incentives linked to participation in secondary education. Furthermore, it is stated in the Children’s Act that young people under the age of 18 should be cared for by their parents. This, together with the desire to increase implementation in secondary education, became crucial to setting 18 years as the age limit for receiving action grants. The government will prevent young people from becoming passive. We believe that early and good follow-up is important to capture young people and ensure that they get into education or work. The government’s new youth effort is a systematic strengthening of the work and welfare seat’s follow-up of young people. We have strengthened the allocation of human resources in the Working and Welfare Session for the follow-up of young people with a total of 100 million. kr in the last two years. Together with the introduction of a statutory activity obligation for social welfare beneficiaries under 30 years of age, these Nav offices support the follow-up work of vulnerable young people across state and municipal areas. It also provides an improved basis for cooperation with education authorities on the follow-up of young people outside of work and education. It is important that Nav’s instruments are adapted to the needs of users, so that Nav can help young people and others in the best possible way. This means that we need to constantly consider the need to make adjustments. So far, there is nothing to suggest that the introduction of the 18-year threshold for action money is particularly problematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1520	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What I think is regrettable is that it is the same as was said when this was implemented in 2016. I have asked about it earlier in Stortinget and had hoped that, after a few years, you were now able to see the problems it creates. I have visited those who work with outreach services to these young people who fall outside, in other words, all urban areas where this is most relevant in Oslo, and everyone says it without a doubt is such that the $4,000 in pocket money you could get for action money to be involved in action is not an incentive in the way governments talk about it. On the contrary, for those who have fallen out of school, and who are far from being able to get back there, getting up in the morning and taking action will make it possible for them to get their lives straight and get back to school easier. I'd like to ask if the Council of State doesn't see the side of this, that being a part of something and not just going without anything to do with is important for these young people. It's a fact that in some parts of Oslo, 40-45 pst is dropped. Out of school. You can't just say that everyone has to go to school, dot. You have to have an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1529	There are dilemmas in this area. I was a City Councillor in Oslo at the time this was introduced, and then I heard the opposite of the representative from Bohemia, which is a concern that vulnerable young people are being withdrawn from school for the $4,000 of action money, that it became an important part of both the young people's and perhaps even the families' economy. So this can go both ways. If you give young people $4,000 to quit school, there's a risk that the threshold for leaving school is lower. We're dedicated to keeping young people in school, of what's going on to keep them in school, and making sure they get high school education, and so on, they're better equipped to handle their adult life. Nav counsellors at school are an important tool that we are trying out just to see if it can help keep young people in school. Different training measures directed by Nav to get the young people back to school, I think, are important. The obligation of activity is important and the threshold of absence is important. We have to spend all our resources keeping young people in school and not having measures that draw them out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1536	I fully agree with the Council of State that it is important to keep young people in school and do everything for it, but unfortunately the large percentage that falls out, and that falls out for long periods – many people don't come back to school – we can't just go and look at it. We need measures that can involve them in activity. I would like to point out that in Oslo in 2016 and 2017 – without claiming that I have proof of a direct relationship – after the action money for this age group we are talking about was liquidated, juvenile delinquency has increased by 25 pst, respectively. and 20 pst. in those years. This is just one of many measures that can help bring those who are subject to this type of influence into activities. But I think all sectors need to prevent and help to see what you can do, and not that the police should do the job alone. I wish the Council of State would take a closer look at this, because it's about young people who have a long distance from going to school and who have been falling out for a long time, as the follow-up teams recruited for these schemes. They're talking about that only in the Groruddalen is there 200 current... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1545	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1550	Yes, it is true that youth crime has increased from 2016, in fact also from 2015, but so has the school implementation rate. The increase in implementation rate is an important signal to take with it. I believe that what is crucial now is that we take care of the young people we are talking about, who are initially exposed – many fall out of school and have few formal qualifications. When we can't qualify them in youth, they're going to have big challenges when they get older. They don't want a foundation wall to build their future on. We must avoid having measures and initiatives that draw them out of what is to lay the foundation for the rest of their lives. I would also like to remind you, if I do not remember completely wrongly, that this very scheme created the concept of ‘navers’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1557	Question 8 will be processed now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1565	This question, from the representative of Tore Hagebakken to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health, who will address the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1570	‘Before that, one of the daughters’ tasks was to care for the elderly in the family. Today's daughters are usually in full employment, but still bear the main responsibility when mother or father needs care. In 2014, NOVA showed that a woman with a son would receive 25 percent more public care than if she had had a daughter – 120 minutes more a week. What has the Council of State done to ensure that everyone is given equal care, regardless of the gender of their children, and what will he do to ensure that women do not have to take greater responsibility for relatives than men?"
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1577	The family is an invaluable resource — both for their immediate loved ones and for the health and care services. It can also be called a renewable resource if well-preserved. The voluntary and mainly family-based care is almost the size of the municipal care service. Regrettably, this will not happen in the coming years. Old parents and nursing family members need care from their neighbors, and society depends on the efforts of its relatives. We need to support and relieve the relatives and make it possible for the family to have the opportunity to combine professional activities with care for their families. In this way, we take care of the relatives as a resource – also in the future. This government has already done a great deal to strengthen the situation of the relatives. A new provision of the Health and Welfare Act came into force on 1 October last year. It gathers and clarifies the municipality's responsibility for relatives who have a particularly burdensome care job. Health and care are becoming more and more attractive to ask the user: What is important to you? The new obligation implies that this question is also to be asked to the relatives. We need more knowledge about what users and relatives think about care services. We hope to get a good answer to that in the national user and family survey that we are going to conduct. One of the main goals of the reform Life throughout life is to ensure that relatives are not worn out and that they can contribute to their loved ones. I will come back to the content of this reform in a separate big message during the spring. So a little bit to the concrete thing that the representative here is dealing with, this with the gender difference in terms of use. I believe that much of this also has to do with attitudes within the close family of the individual elderly, and how you might expect the girls to take more responsibility than the boys. While it is difficult to legislate for attitudes, we have to work with attitudes that there should be a full-time culture, that everyone should be able to participate both in normal day-to-day work and shift work, regardless of gender, and at the same time be able to participate in care work at home. Health and care services shall be provided as necessary. It is therefore not possible for older people who have daughters as relatives to receive less care from the public if the need for help is the same. In the government platform, we have announced that we will present our own related strategy. The fact that there are different expectations for the care of men and women, and what will be important to ensure that women are not charged with greater responsibility than men, can be a topical issue in this strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1594	Thanks for the answer. I perceive the council there that she will take this, but I must be allowed to ask a little further. I think flexibility will work well. So how does the Council of State feel that it can better organise care provision to become more flexible? For today, most relief schemes are adapted to daytime, for example, day-time demented activities. There is little variation in the offer for those who have relatives who work shifts, as on evenings and weekends, as one in many typical women's girls just do. This can lead to a reduction in the amount of work and a reduction in the rate of retirement. How can a person ensure that relief services for relatives are not only in the daytime but also take greater account of people working shifts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1603	I think the representative here is very important, because we want a smooth transition, and we want a closer cooperation with the different professional groups, whether a working day or working shifts. Putting the patient, or the elderly, in the centre is the goal of this government and much more to be able to ask the individual what he or she needs. Then it should not be that one is locked to get good services only if one has normal daytime work. So these are the things I want to take with me when we're going to present the related strategy gradually – look at how we can achieve cooperation, be more flexible and have a broader approach to addressing the challenges related to the issues that the representative addresses. I think it's very relevant and important questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1610	The Council of State responses give great cause for expectations of the coming message and for an active follow-up of relatives in the context of the national strategy that one of the government platforms has said should come to. So once again, that gives cause for great expectations, because this is very important for us to succeed in having enough hands in the future. However, I would like to ask: what will the government do to highlight these challenges and promote equality for women who are related and who care for the elderly and the sick no matter what they work with and where they work?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1617	I referred in my main post to the fact that we are now conducting a national user and family survey that will also give a hint of where the shoe is pressing, and what a person feels out there is difficult to get the ends to meet, to give a good care. There's going to be a pilot this March, that's this month. Thereafter, the Public Health Institute shall validate the issues and analyse the results of the survey of the pilot municipalities that entered the project in December 2017 and with recommendations for further operation and work on the survey. I think we'll gain a lot of experience and a lot of knowledge when we get these answers in place. Those who work actively with this will certainly come back, because they know where the shoe prints.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1624	We're now going to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1632	My first question to the Council of State is as follows: ‘What kind of carrots will the Council of State use to improve working hours for elderly people, so that we get less sick leave, more whole jobs and more staff able to stand longer in the job?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1639	I must first point out that during the interview with the Fädrelandsvennen – the regional newspaper down in the South, to which I suppose the representative is aiming – I did not use the terms ‘better turn’ or ‘fight’ and that these terms are for the newspaper’s own account. My starting point is to provide the best possible care services. Research shows that large numbers of small jobs in this sector lead to a deterioration in quality of service and inefficient services. The quality of services is reduced when users have to deal with many employees, important information is lost in shifts, many small job rates make it difficult to recruit skilled workers, and, not least, the provision of only part-time jobs has a negative impact on young people’s educational choices. On the other hand, many part-time jobs are selected on a voluntary basis, and the possibility of working part-time is likely to be an important cause of the high level of participation among women in Norway. At the same time, small jobs provide unworthy jobs for workers who depend on a fully-fledged and, not least, predictable job situation in order to obtain adequate wages and pensions. The shift/turnus sample concluded that one of the main reasons for the high part-time proportion of turn-around workers is that there is a high demand for labour during weekends when the tour plans are usually scheduled every three weekends or less frequently. Furthermore, the sample expressed that what appears to be central to reducing time use is that the weekend frequency of the rotational plans should be increased. In this work we need, among other things. alternative rotational arrangements agreed between the social partners, based on volunteering and based on the needs of the sector. These included: therefore, in 2015, the government amended the Labour Environment Act and opened up the possibility for the parties locally to make it easier to make arrangements up to 12.5 hours. This way you can, for example: plan long shifts on weekends and therefore meet the need for Sunday work without working several weekends. I know that there is a lot of good work in the municipalities to reduce the proportion of part-time, but this does not seem to be enough. The Working Time Committee pointed out that the problems related to the health and care sector have been known and discussed for many years, but that the parties have not been able to find a solution. I understand – and I understand very well – that the part-time issue in the care services is complex, and I am interested in having a dialogue with the social partners to take a closer look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1656	Many municipalities are now attempting to roll out increased basic staff in the care of the elderly. This includes, among other things: Rana municipality gave good results at Gruben hospital, and they are now looking at an extension to several parts of the municipality. With increased basic staffing, you can get a better working day for employees, better quality for users, more full time and less sick leave. My question will then be: Will the Council of State facilitate increased basic staffing in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1661	The most important thing for me now is to look at a flexibility that preserves the user in the center. If that means that one should increase the basic crew, if that means that one should open up to this with flexible alternative turns, as I have expressed a desire to look at, I think it is important to engage in dialogue with both the users and not least the organisations in order to be able to solve – that we do not lock ourselves to a position and say that it is the only thing that will be able to solve the challenges we have, as we have known for so many years, and not clearly – but I will not conclude that now. But I'm very open to looking at solutions, because I'm well aware that if we're going to solve the challenge with the increase we're getting from the elderly – and not least the sicker elderly, because we're living longer – we're going to have to dry up thinking new, and we're going to have to dry up thinking new together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1666	Linda Lavik, head of Norwegian Nursery Association in Buskerud, writes in Drammen’s Official Journal today: ‘Over the last few years, there has been a great deal of research on the relationship between working time systems and health. Research shows that tour work is associated with a number of adverse health effects and consequences for psychosocial well-being, such as conflict between work and family, increased fatigue, increased risk of cardiovascular disease, gastrointestinal problems and cancer.’ With this hindrance and the awareness that we need to make it attractive to work in the health sector, does the Minister fear the health consequences of a so-called tougher turn, and fears the consequences when it comes to recruitment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1676	What's known from research, as the representative here points out, I know. I look at some of the latest research findings that have been mentioned, which relate to shift and rotation work, where one has pointed out that when the individual health worker goes for short periods of work and has what can be called short rest periods, one never gets picked up again. When one looks at the fact that many people might go for a three-day tour at work, two days off, etc., the research community in the last report has now pointed out that having a longer period of free time allows one to pick up. In addition, the element will go on a tour that suggests that you may have morning shifts and alternate shifts within a short time – evening, morning and maybe again the next morning, etc. - and that the rest period is not long enough. It's a lot of stress, because we know that the body needs a break. It's just these things I want to look at and work with. But having a longer period of free time has proved to be very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1684	This question, from the representative Nina Sandberg to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, will be answered by the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health on behalf of the Minister for Research and Higher Education, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1689	‘NIFU has calculated that, unless action is taken, it will take 50 years before gender balance among university and university professors. Unless the Council of State is satisfied with waiting for a few generations to achieve gender balance, what action will the government take to speed up gender equality in this important area of society?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1696	For the Minister of Research and Higher Education and for the Government, the ambition is clear that the growth we have seen in the proportion of women in top professional positions in the university and higher education sectors will continue in the coming years. Work on a good gender balance in academia is closely linked to the ambitions of increasing quality in research and higher education. We can't afford to lose or miss out on some good heads because of the lack of equality and diversity in this sector. An independent and important point is that increasing gender balance and diversity in the sector and improving the integration of gender perspectives into research and innovation is not just about justice, but about the emergence and development of the ongoing dialogue in the academia. The Ministry of Knowledge is closely monitoring the proportion of women in docent and professorship positions at universities and colleges. This is a national governance parameter in our target and performance management system and an important theme in the strategic governance dialogue that the Ministry has with universities and colleges. The proportion of women in top professional positions is growing, but it is still too slow. The large picture in recent years has been an increase of about 1 percentage point per year, but behind these figures there are considerable variations between institutions and not least between disciplines. We therefore need to base our actions on knowledge of this variation and instruments adapted to this complex picture. The Government supports within the Committee on Gender Balance and Diversity in Research, Kif, its efforts to promote gender equality and diversity at universities, colleges and research institutes. During the period 2014-2017, the Committee has paid particular attention to gender and ethnicity and has contributed to the emphasising of gender equality in many mergers in the context of the sector’s structural process. For example, leadership positions at NTNU are now being published with demands for gender equality, and several other universities have followed in the NTNU footsteps. The Kif Committee has recently been appointed for the period 2018-2021 and is one of the main instruments we have as spearheads and pushes for the field, together with the BALANSE programme in the Research Council, which is financed in the period 2013-2022 by approximately 130 million. to support the objective of improving gender balance at senior level in Norwegian research through new knowledge, learning and, in particular, innovative actions. I would also like to mention the good work of the Research Council on recruitment and good career opportunities for younger researchers, where they pay particular attention to gender. It is also important that through NordForsk, we fund Nordic centres for excellent research to gain more knowledge about what the barriers are and what can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1709	The Council of State referred to the BALANSE programme, and that is good. The research institute Simula has introduced a family-friendly bonus for its employees. Anyone who has a child receives a bonus of NOK 25 000. In addition, newly-baked parents who work with a doctorate receive four months extra funding. A study in the BALANSE project of the Research Council shows that the balance between work and family is a barrier to gender equality in academia. The question of gender balance is also about the culture of the workplace and not least the structure of equality. Are these types of structural measures such as baby bonus and extra time something that the Council of State will provide in general academia?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1714	Now I am not responsible for the matter, so I cannot talk on behalf of the Minister of Research and Higher Education about exactly this, about what she would like to do, but I would like to get back to it. It is clear that this follow-up question will be addressed to the Minister of Research and Higher Education with the possibility of responding at a later stage. So I hope that's okay with the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1719	In Europe, several countries have introduced national strategies to ensure broad recruitment for higher education. In the past, the Swedish Research Association has asked the government to engage in dialogue with the sector to develop such a comprehensive recruitment strategy. The Norwegian student organisation has addressed the same issue. In the context of the treatment of the gender equality notification, the Labour Party proposed that Norway should also develop such a type of recruitment strategy to combat gender inequalities in the educational and academic pathways. In this context, gender scores and gender equality grants can be assessed together with other allowances and instruments. I then ask the Council of State: will the Council of State take the initiative to give Norway such a recruitment strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1724	Once again, I cannot answer on behalf of the Minister for Research and Higher Education at this very point. But on a general basis, I can say that this government is concerned that we get a balance in both academia and in other areas, which reflects what society is asking for. There is an equivalency between the sexes, that one has equal opportunities to succeed and has equal opportunities to reach the top, and that one does not at any time when the so-called glass ceiling. The fact that Norway, as a nation, should look at an overall approach, I can say on a general basis that the government is concerned about. But what the Minister for Research and Higher Education will actually do, I also think there will be an opportunity to get answers on another occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1729	Then today's regular Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-07.ana.ud465e1743	There is no record available. So the map is ready for today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
