ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e190	Representatives Norunn Tveiden Benestad, Nils Aage Jagstad, Abid Q. Raja, Bente Stein Mathisen, Marianne Synnes, Siv Mossleth, Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen and Trond Giske, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. They called for alternates, for Hedmark County of Per-gunnar Sveen and for Northland County of Rita Lekang, now take the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Steinar Reiten on sick leave for the period from 11 June to 15 June by Mr Björn Moxnes, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on Monday 11 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Simon Molvær Grimstad For Oslo: Seher Aydar
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e263	Simon Molvær Grimstad and Seher Aydar are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e275	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e293	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e302	I would like to begin by welcoming Mr Stortinget and the members of the Finance Committee to a long and debated day. This is the first case of a total of twelve cases to be referred to by the Financial Committee. We'll see if the debate is as lively when we finish with the European statistical programme – perhaps not the one that will have the highest temperature today, but we probably have other things that can happen. The government has presented a revised national budget that is just that, a revised version of the budget adopted by the Stortinget last December, which is, moreover, a budget in which we continue to lower taxes for people most and business, while prioritizing investment in the future of the country through better roads, faster hospital treatment and record research efforts and better teachers. For this reason, there are no major investments or many new measures being presented in this budget. This is how a revised budget is most often, and the main purpose is to obtain up-to-date figures and analyses, to make adjustments where necessary, and to receive answers from the government to various requests that have been promoted in the past. I would like to mention some of the changes and proposals that have been made in this proposition. The first concerns property taxes on works and uses, the phasing out of machine taxes. It was decided before Christmas, as part of the current state budget, that the machine tax should be removed. After the negotiations, the transitional rule adopted was called into question. Some interpreted it in such a way that municipalities that have only had property taxes on works and uses also have to impose property taxes on other commercial property. Since these questions were raised, the position of the majority of the Financial Committee was clear that this provision should not be interpreted. It was never intended or intended that municipalities should have to extend their property tax base in order to participate in the compensation scheme. When the question was still raised, I think it is nice that the government comes back with a legal provision that cannot be interpreted, although I believe it should initially be unnecessary when the meaning of the bulk of the population behind the provision is expressed in such clear forms. The debate on machine taxes, I am going to take the next case, which I am going to deal with that committee's members, too, when the agenda is the way it is. The second concerns easier taxation of non-resident workers. The Government proposes in the revised budget to introduce a withholding tax for foreign workers who are here for temporary employment. The proposal has been through a wide-ranging consultation leading up to the legislation currently proposed. I have noticed that other parties in this room are going against this amendment because it is believed that it would give better conditions for foreign workers than for Norwegians. Until it is said that it must then be better to get the right tax than errors or no tax at all. The biggest difference between Norwegian and non-resident workers today is that it is easier to collect taxes from Norwegians because less information is needed. It is easier to collect, it is easier to control, and the tax rate has more information about Norwegian taxpayers. Furthermore, the percentage of the simplified scheme is a theme. If you have a tax rate higher than 25 p.m., it is close to believing that the few foreign workers will choose to use the scheme proposed here. Today's proposals have balanced consideration, inter alia: LO, who wants a higher rate, and the NHO and the Tax Directorate, who want a lower rate. By 25 pst. we are also similar to the Swedish scheme, and an income ceiling is introduced, so that workers with high incomes cannot participate in the scheme. This is a simplification that you have professionally wanted, which will make it easier for the thousands of foreign workers we have in Norway to get taxed correctly. The government is following up weaknesses that have been discovered in its own controls and revealed by the National Audit Office. The third is better rules for reporting and taxing benefits in kind. It is already the general rule today that all benefits that a person receives free of charge through work, but which provide a private economic advantage, should be taxed. There is agreement between business and tax authorities that clarifications and improvements are needed in how this should be done. I am not going to go into these changes any further than noting that the government will come back to the changes also in the state budget for 2019, with supplementary rules. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Work and Cooperation. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e321	I want to focus on the proposals where the Workers' Party has comments. The first concerns the taxation of foreign workers who are required to choose a simplified tax regime of 25 pst. tax without deduction, up to a certain level. We support the principle, but ask questions about not 25 pst, as the government proposes, giving too much benefit over ordinary taxation less. Here we miss a more thorough case presentation, so that we can see the difference between this simplified and the ordinary taxation at different levels of income, and the government believes that a higher tax rate than 25 pst should be assessed. So for taxing benefits in kind, which is essentially a modernisation and simplification. We're supporting the main lines. However, there are consultation bodies that point out any need for further clarification. They should be studied more thoroughly by the government before the final proposals are drawn up. The representatives of the government parties also agree, so I suppose the Council of State will listen. We would also like to recall LO's opinion in the consultation round, that staff rebates and benefits in kind should be regulated so that they do not become a substitute for parts of a «durable, ordinary salary on retirement, sickness and holiday pay». As regards the transfer of complaints from the Tax Act to the Tax Directorate, we support the transfer of complaints relating to periodic penalty payments, including complaints related to the A-Information Act, to the Directorate. However, we share the concern expressed by a majority of the hearing bodies, namely the fragmentation of complaints and the adequate protection of legal certainty when the same body is dealing with cases and complaints where the object of the appeal is so-called low in value. These complaints should, in our view, continue to be addressed, which should be allocated more resources to avoid residues. With regard to the property tax on machinery in works and use, we support the setting. That is in line with what the Workers' Party has proposed. But I want to remind you that in the treatment of Doc. 8:158 S for 2017-2018 agreed that the government would come back in revision with proposals for the compensation scheme of up to 500 million. kr shall be arranged and distributed. The government has not done this. It is also clear that the compensation scheme is up to 500 million. kr will not cover the income loss of the municipalities concerned, and the municipalities still do not know the criteria for the distribution to each municipality. So, until a proposal from the Labour Party has been included in this setting, to remove the subsidies on foreign online commerce by releasing less than 350 kroner of VAT, any customs duties and excise duties. It causes a significant loss of income and represents a significant competitive disadvantage for Norwegian business. That is why we propose a change in the law where Section 5-9 of the Customs Act will be repealed from 1 August of this year, which I recommend to everyone to support. The position on the matter we are going to deal with later today based on Doc. 8:205 and Doc. 8:213 shows that there is actually a majority in this room to remove this tax haven. It is more important than ever to close this tax haven, after the third tax collected from the government parties and the cooperation parties, in order to get an agreement on the state budget in port – the sugar levy. The first was the bag charge, which had to be put in the drawer. Then there was the flight seat fee, which unfortunately was not canceled. It led to the laying down of the Back Civil Airport, and to the loss of hundreds of jobs in Eastfold and elsewhere in the country. So this time it was the sugar and the product tax that was going to get a big jump. Nearly a few billion were needed to make the revenue meet the level of expenditure, and then the level of increase was added. What that could mean for the Norwegian food industry, you didn't care about thinking, at least not figured out. The result of the price jump on candy and drinks at home is that the online trade has made a strong jump. According to Working, 16 to 20 tonnes of cane and drink are sent over the limit each week. How long should the Minister of Finance sit still and see that Norwegian jobs and tax receipts to the Treasury run out between her fingers? Int. 364 S, which we will consider later, is a majority to ask the government to investigate the removal of this tax exemption and come back to the draft government budget for 2019. Hopefully, the Minister of Finance will discover that she will need these revenues to get the income to cover the expenses. With this I address the proposal of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e351	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e356	I would like to start by thanking the case manager for doing some good for the tax, tax and legal changes proposed in this proposition. I would also like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation and, in particular, thank the Christian People's Party for having agreed with the Government Party one day before the deadline for the revised national budget, which has led the Committee to have had more time than it normally has with such revisions. This is, as the case-leader said, a revision of the tax and tax arrangements that are under way, not an arena to propose much new. However, the case spokesperson was involved in some of the new proposals proposed by the government, to which the Stortinget is now joining. We're very happy and happy with what's lying there. Something that he does not mention, and that the Progress Party is particularly pleased with, is the proposal to reduce the rates of small breweries. It's a good district case, and something that we think is very good for creating jobs in the districts and getting competitive conditions, like being able to sell beer in shops, thus securing district work places. There is one thing we are very happy that the plural numbers end up today. When the Labour Party representative lists all possible expenditure increases that have occurred as part of a settlement between the Christian People's Party and the Left and the former government parties and now between the Christian People's Party and the three government parties, there is reason to recall that one then takes some small fees out of context and creates the impression that this large majority has increased taxes and fees. That's wrong. If one sees this period as a whole, we have reduced taxes and charges by 24.2 billion. kr for this and the previous period. It's a significant reduction, and it's mostly for ordinary people. The reduction in the income tax on ordinary persons amounts to SEK 13.8 billion. NOK of this. Reduction in taxes on wealth is only 6,1 billion. kr. In addition, we have removed the inheritance fee, which represents 2.2 billion. kr, and we have done a lot for business by reducing the tax and tax burden on them by 8.8 billion. kr, to name something. So if one sees these five years under one and the ten budgets, with revisions, the bulk of the population has reduced the tax and tax burden on both the majority of people and the business community. If we dare to compare this with the alternatives that the opposition has presented over the same decade, Norwegian consumers, Norwegian people and Norwegian business would have been worse off with any number of others than those who have prepared the budget. It is an important image to draw. We also see quite clearly that some of the things that have been introduced have created some irreversible consequences, such as the increase in the fees associated with candy and candy. It has created greater border trade, especially over the web. But the solution to this is not, as the Labour Party suggests, to remove the 350-kroner limit, with effect from August 1. It is a little ironic to hear the representative Svein Roald Hansen criticise that one has done something without explaining, and then suggests a solution by removing a fee limit without resolving it, and it will come into force on 1 August, which will mean that all those who have ordered, for example. small goods from China today, will not be delivered until the Labour Party – if they get more for it – has changed the legislation. Then one would see the same thing as one sees in Sweden, that there are thousands of packages at Posten, which nobody picks up, and with which the Posten gets a lot of problems. I don't think we should let the Post get such a big challenge by being as responsible as the Workers' Party. Nor is it true that in the other case we are dealing with today, there is a number to remove this fee. There's a number that asks the government to figure out, and then it's natural that a guy does what creates challenges. But of course you have to figure out both aspects: What does this mean for the Post? What would it be like for Norwegian consumers to be able to import small goods that they cannot find in Norwegian stores? There are quite a number of Norwegian consumers who appreciate such a limit and who appreciate the fact that it is possible to shop cheap goods without having to pay an expensive fee in addition to customs duties. I hope that this arrangement will point to all the elements, and that one can have a thorough and good review before one only suggests removing the limit on 1 August, as the Labour Party does. We'll get back to this when the government gets it done. Until then, I hope we can focus on Norwegian consumers as well, not only on the few shops that are busy with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e373	The Center Party believes in all of Norway. We will strengthen preparedness throughout the country and secure services close to people. We will cut the red tape and ensure the basis for Norwegian jobs. We have an overall alternative to the revised national budget that makes these priorities visible. To the legislative proposals that we are going to consider today: several of the legislative proposals from the majority parties will help to weaken Norwegian jobs and Norwegian business, while at the same time not implementing the necessary changes to secure Norwegian jobs. At the 350-kroner limit, which several of the speakers have already touched on today: it is a very special system that if you act online with a Norwegian actor, you have to pay ordinary taxes and taxes, VAT from the first crown. But if you shop exactly the same goods in a foreign online store, you don't have to pay VAT or any other charges. It is a system that is directly in conflict with Norwegian interests and that is draining us from jobs. Work has estimated that the 350-kroner limit alone is draining us for 6,000 jobs. There's a hurry to do something about this. To the representative of Njåstad, who is concerned that things need to be investigated: Well, a narrow one, therefore, with a fee increase on sugar and chocolate products and non-alcoholic beverages of over 80 pst, respectively. and over 40 pst. with a few weeks’ notice before Christmas – which hit Norwegian jobs, which hit Norwegian businesses. It was quite possible to do in a late night hour without an investigation and without any prior information from those affected. But when someone here from our side and the Workers' Party is proposing to remove a completely unfair exception that is in direct contradiction with Norwegian interests, a person will obviously push it out into eternity before one is willing to do anything about it. This applies to the limit of NOK 350. Countries by country remove similar schemes. It is fully possible to find solutions to avoid customs duties, and it has been proposed by the Centre Party. Other countries find good solutions to this. It's just a matter of being willing to act. So to the changes in benefits in kind: of course, it's good to clean up and simplify. The problem with the changes being implemented is that they are neither good for employees nor good for businesses. It will lead to more bureaucracy. This will lead to increased costs for enterprises, such as: Work has pointed out. In his letter to the Financial Committee, the Board of Auditors writes, among others: several of the proposals involve: ‘that the employer has to establish comprehensive and detailed follow-up and control procedures that will capture significant resources for traders. In addition, enterprises are charged an increased cost in the form of an employer’s fee on third party benefits. The additional costs of implementing the proposals have not been discussed but will be significant.» They also write: ‘The government has given high priority to business simplification. The proposal in this proposition indicates that these are words, with little content.’» The proposal submitted must be rejected. It must be the subject of a more thorough process involving not least stakeholders and business. So to the proposal on non-resident workers: what one establishes here is an optional scheme, in which non-resident workers are not imposed on the new scheme, but where one can choose the type of tax to which one should be subject — a privilege that non-Norwegian workers have the opportunity. It is a tax subsidy for non-resident workers, a pure subsidy that could harm Norwegian business and could also harm Norwegian workers. Finally, to the proposal to transfer tasks from the Tax Office to the Tax Directorate. It will involve centralisation of work tasks, from Stavanger to Oslo, which include: Accounts Norway and KPMG point out. It will exacerbate the legal certainty of taxpayers and move them back to the Tax Directorate. One should strengthen the subject of taxation rather than adopt that proposal. I would like to bring up the proposal that the Central Party has in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e405	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e410	Tax policy is important for the allocation of resources in society. Since no major changes are made to the government’s tax regime, it is worth mentioning that the government is thus continuing a tax policy that benefits the economic elite over the people most. Persons with an income of more than 10 million. kr has received hundreds of times more tax credits than those with low income. Also ranked by wealth are they with the most that have ever received the largest tax credits. Then there is reason to remind the representative Njåstad that most people would get better out of it with SV's tax and tax arrangements. It has made the Ministry of Finance's figures visible. The representative, Njåstad, also talks about seeing some unforeseen consequences of the increase in fees that this government has made. When it's done overnight, in the middle of the negotiations, and you haven't figured it out, it's clear there's going to be some unforeseen consequences. The government should take the consequences of that. The whole of the revised budget is to be discussed Friday this week, and we have several important debates today. I just want to briefly explain some of the SV's positions related to issues that are in this setting. Let me first take non-resident workers and introduce the scheme in which non-resident workers are given the opportunity to choose gross taxes without deduction from the tax equation. SV supports the proposed principle and makes it easier to tax this group. However, like the Workers' Party, I would like to raise concerns about the level of the tax rate adopted here, as the LO has also pointed out in its consultation response. It is about using the average level of today’s system for these workers, and the concern is that today’s level is probably artificially low. Therefore, together with the Workers' Party and the Green Party, SV believes that the government must propose a higher tax rate, which provides more equal treatment between this simplified taxation and ordinary taxation less. I think it's important that we don't get a permanent scheme here that involves huge tax cuts for foreign workers. We expect the government to follow developments closely and to gain experience from this change. Another thing we also come back to is property tax on works and use. I want to remind you that SV initially went against this change. We are also satisfied with the government's clarifications relating to the transitional rule, but we are less satisfied that there are still large uncertainties related to the compensation scheme of up to 500 million. kr. It's both about how to set it up and distribute it, and about 500 million. kr is obviously not sufficient to compensate for the loss of income of municipalities as a result of changes in property taxes. There is at all quite a lot that is rather unclear when we write June 11th and the changes are going to be implemented until next year, which is what we will get back to in the next case. Finally, I will link some comments to online commerce. SV will vote against the bill promoted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party to remove the 350-kroner limit from 1 August. It is important to implement it at the same time as establishing good solutions for consumers, so that VAT and customs can be paid easily. But we will vote in favour of the proposals that lie in the next case, and believe it is positive that it seems to be a majority in order for the government to decide to remove this limit and come back to Stortinget with it already in the budget for next year. Then I assume that they notice where the majority actually stands in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e427	There are no dramatic changes in the tax system in the revision of the State budget. We should be happy about that, because we need predictability, and we need stability. So there are no dramatic changes, despite the fact that there are a few proofs that a new party has been introduced into this government since January. The microbreweries around our country can now enjoy a fee reduction of the first 200 000 liters of beer they brew this year. We got Trine Skrei Grande, who travelled from microbrewery to microbrewery in the election campaign – and it kept us going! But it can also be done by consumers, who value the quality and culture of maintaining the diversity of microbreweries around the country. And diversity is very amazing, it's very great, even in the case of microbreweries. Even in the framework of the month, a liberal politician can enjoy the diversity of microbreweries. At the same time, the VAT regulation has received an important update with VAT. on electronic news services were removed, as we have been doing for years with the traditional paper newspapers – again with the greetings of Trine Skei Grande in government. Times have changed, but the need for quality information in a democratic society has not changed. That's why it's positive that we now get a code in the 21st century that makes the commuter who reads the local view on the tablet pay no more than the one who turns through the paper version. This is good and modern media policy, which makes it more reasonable for the consumer to invest in quality journalism. The clarification and simplification of tax rules on temporary foreign labour is fully in line with a social liberal policy, which sees the possibilities, not just the challenges, of labour immigration. We know how important these workers are to Norwegian business and to the growth we can be so proud of. Therefore, it is right that the government should do its job to facilitate such labour immigration. On the other hand, the main line of government tax policy is the need for the tax regime to bring about the green shift that is now underway and to facilitate economic growth and increased productivity in the Norwegian economy. There are no changes in the revision of this budget, and it will also be the government's predictable and stable line in fiscal policy in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e440	I would like to make a few comments on some of the points that we are going to adopt today. I start with benefits in kind. There's the attitude of both the majority of the committee and the Christian People's Party that we're happy that there's a clean-up and a simplification, but we see when we read it ourselves, and not least after the hearing, that there are many who react to that everything doesn't necessarily get as simple. I am pleased that the majority of the committee points out that the government in the follow-up must do what it can to make a simplification actually the result. Then I record that there have been some criticisms about the new tax regime for foreign workers. I am pleased with the scheme being launched. I think it'll be a simplification and hopefully lead to less bureaucracy. So it's also that, after the consultation round, the government's proposal is that one goes to the highest rate. In the hearing, it was 22-25 pst. which were the suggestions, and you put yourself on 25 pst. There is a rate to be set in each state budget, so now you launch a scheme, and then you have to look at the results, follow the scheme and adjust the tax rate if it is not used or if it seems too favourable. Then there are several people who have taken up the so-called 350-kroner limit. We'll come back to that debate later, but it's important to look at what's going on in Europe. It is not that Norway is very special about wanting to impose VAT from the first krona – on the contrary, Norway is the one that is special and does not impose VAT from the first krona. The rest of the EU has a system of VAT from the first krona, and it has been decided that, in the case of third countries, the EU should also have VAT from the first krona by 2021. This is a direct discrimination against Norwegian jobs and businesses – we come back to that debate – and for the Christian People's Party it is important to have it investigated. We're looking forward to something in the budget for the autumn. Then, as Mr Kaski stresses, it is also important to do so in a good way, look at the different models, look at solutions and lessons from neighbouring countries that have done so, at both good and bad, but not least at how to make it easy for consumers. My attitude is that this is a matter that arouses a lot of enthusiasm, but also provocation. When you say that the point is not to charge a large fee, but that the point is VAT from the first penny, there are several people who think it's a sensible arrangement. So it's important that you do it a good way. Finally, I would like to link some comments to machine tax, or the property tax on works and use. From the Christian People's Party it was a two-sided attitude to the matter. We wanted first of all an investigation to see how it could be done in the best possible way. When we went into the conciliation last autumn related to the removal of the tax, it was because we see that it has given challenges to business. We hope that the result is that new businesses are created around the country. In addition, when we were able to put in place a compensation scheme, we felt that it was good enough for municipalities to meet their income base – for which the property tax was an important basis. We had hoped that the compensation scheme would be explained in the revised or in the municipal bill. I believe that this was a strength for the matter and made it easier for the municipalities. But we are clear that this is a system to be implemented, and we are clear that the municipalities have to do their job. I believe they have to do it, and if they can't do it, we have to get back to it. Now the government will come up with the arrangements for the scheme, and then I hope that there will be a system that will enable municipalities to carry out the redeployment before 1 March 2019, but also a system that allows – I do not remember the wording – the municipalities to be fully compensated. It has been an important prerequisite for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e454	Norway has been through nearly five years of tax cuts under this government, with increasing differences as a result. Fortunately, in this revised budget, the government does not take as many steps as could contribute to further increased differences. But they're doing something. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen and the Government propose to introduce withholding taxes for foreign workers. Instead of completing normal tax returns, they will pay a flat tax of 25 pst from next year. In fact, Red agrees that there may be a need for a simplification of the tax regime for foreign workers for temporary stays, but we do not fully see why such simplification must involve a tax cut. The government's proposal is estimated at 50 million. kr i reduced proceeds from the working group concerned. Several batches have reacted in this way to align the scheme precisely for that reason. In its hearing opinion, LO warned that the flat tax rate should not be set so low as to result in tax cuts. Now we see that that's exactly what happened when the government's proposal is estimated to give 50 million. kr in the sample surface. Red is concerned about discrimination between workers living in Norway and workers engaged in temporary employment by employment agencies. The tax rate opens up a downward wage squeeze, and it could contribute to increasing differences. It is clear that when an employer knows that a worker has to pay lower taxes than others, it is not so unlikely that he will be able to offer lower wages. This is, in fact, a tax subsidy for temporary workers in a situation where more than 100000 workers and workers are out of work in Norway. Red therefore proposes the following: ‘The government is asked to fix the tax rate for withholding taxes on foreign workers for a temporary stay of 26 p.m. in the context of the draft State budget for 2019.’ According to estimates received from the Ministry of Finance, this would be sufficient to ensure that at least the amendment of the law would not be a way for this government to introduce tax cuts. Simplification is good, so Red is not against the law amendment itself. What we're opposed to is tax cuts that lead to additional wage pressure downwards. This simplification will be just as simple if the rate is set higher than the government's proposal. I'll bring this up on Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e474	The representative Seher Aydar has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e479	The main objective of the government’s fiscal policy is to finance well-being as effectively as possible. The government has reduced the level of taxation in order to increase value creation and to give greater freedom to families and individuals. Growth-promoting tax relief is a central part of the government's economic policy. Tax reform and tax reconciliation are an important contribution. The reform promotes investment in Norwegian business, provides a basis for increased employment and provides better protection of the Norwegian tax base. In the future, it will be important to simplify the tax system, both to reduce the burden on taxpayers and to reduce administrative costs. In the context of the revised national budget for 2018, the Government has made proposals for some changes to the tax rules. The Government proposes, among other things: better rules for reporting and taxing benefits in kind in employment. Today’s rules are demanding to enforce and enforce for both employers, workers and tax authorities. The proposed rules contribute to simplification and proper enforcement. A simplified tax system for foreign workers is proposed for temporary residence in the country. The taxation of this group has caused many errors and has been very resource-intensive for the tax bill. The new scheme briefly states that income from employees is subject to withholding taxes according to a gross method with a fixed rate of 25 pst. In order to reduce the number of cases in the Tax Act and to help reduce the number of cases there, it is proposed that some cases be referred to the Tax Directorate. These are decisions on periodic penalty payments, late payment under the A Information Act, not case-by-case cases where the complaint concerns amounts less than NOK 25 000 and cases of tax limitation in case of low tax capacity. In addition, the government proposes a tax reduction on beer from small breweries and an exemption from the levy on operating resources for the reindeer industry. The government also proposes some other changes to the rules, including: exemption from the obligation to adjust value added tax in the case of community mergers and divisions. I have noticed that the Financial Committee has joined all the proposals. A few cases have minor comments, and a minority in the Financial Committee have also made other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e494	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e499	I assume that the Minister of Finance has noticed that there are a number of people who point out that the rules on benefits in kind may need to be looked at more closely in order to achieve what is intended, namely simplification and correct regulation. I can recommend the Council of State to send it about the Board of Regulators to get good advice in this way. What I want to address is whether the Council of State in the State budget for the autumn will provide analyses of the proposal for the simplified taxation of foreign workers, so that the Storting can get a slightly wider basis than we have now, to assess whether the rate of tax of 25 p.m., or a higher tax rate, provides a better balance compared to ordinary taxation, so that the tax advantage of the simplified solution does not become unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e506	First to the comment on benefits in kind. The whole purpose of what the government has proposed is to simplify. Then there are many individual areas that we are going to return to the Stortinget with further information on in the context of the 2019 government budget. Of course we will, but still for the same purpose, namely simplification. With regard to the taxation of foreign taxpayers, I believe we have found a fairly good balance. This is primarily about clearing up a problem that has been there for a long time, and where we have also received references from the National Audit Office. There was a need to find a better system, which does not conflict with the EEA Agreement, and I believe we have. As the hearing showed, LO and NHO have separated layers in their view of where the tax rate should be. We've been working on the highest rate at the hearing, and we've actually been following the same system as what's been going on in Sweden for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e515	To the new tax regime for non-resident workers: no non-resident workers are required to enter the new scheme. It is established as an optional system, so in principle no one can switch to the new system. In that case, there'll only be more bureaucracy without you getting any effect on it. If people choose the new scheme, I assume it's because they get lower taxes than what they have today – that is, a pure subsidisation of foreign workers. Why has one from the government chosen to have this as an optional arrangement whose aim is to simplify the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e520	The main reason why the scheme is optional is EEA law. That is the main reason, neither more nor less, and I want to reject the claims made in the submissions that this is primarily intended to subsidise some taxpayers. No, the main goal of this change is to simplify, create simpler rules for proper taxation and clear up the possibility of continuing errors, from which we have received more references from the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e525	If you think that non-resident workers are going over to the new scheme, it would make sense to introduce it as a directive. Here one has chosen to have this as an optional scheme, and it makes sense that foreign workers do not choose the new scheme unless it results in lower taxes for them. And that's exactly what's the problem with this system: you set up a system where Norwegian workers can't choose the tax rule they're subject to, but foreign workers get a privilege, which the council now says is because of the EEA agreement. Or is it that Norwegian workers will also receive such a privilege in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e530	If you choose this scheme, you also deduct the possibility of any deduction that all other taxpayers have in the tax system. So you make a choice. The assessment so far is that the rate we've calculated is a correct rate. And it's in line with a system you've had in Sweden for many years, which has been a good and simplified system. So once again, the whole main point of doing this is to clean up, simplify and eliminate the risk of errors. We'll learn that after the scheme is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e535	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e543	By law, the land has to be built, it's called. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes to remove the law which provides for a tax exemption for imports below a certain amount limit. The law does not help to build the country. It undermines jobs, pollutes the environment, provides the country with unnecessary expenditure and reduces its income – revenues that can be used to strengthen hospital and kindergarten services and to increase efforts for a better climate. When the board of directors of the Progress Party pushes investigations ahead, there is reason to recall that this is an established system with a limit of money for what is more than 350 kroner, as opposed to a bag charge and other charges, which have not been investigated. The NHO says it is time-critical that the authorities show action and wind up the scheme. Action says: ‘We really don’t see any reason to waste time, and not least jobs and tax credits, on an investigation – the scheme should be liquidated by day.’ [[...]] The position of trade unions is also clear and follow the same line of reasoning. The fact that the government does not pay much attention to the trade unions may not be unexpected, but that neither the NHO nor the NHO have an impact on the parties that they believe are engaged in the Norwegian business community is alarming. The government's mantra for five years has been that it is necessary to give the companies of their owners large tax credits. It is alleged that it has to be done to ensure Norwegian employment. Is care for jobs related only to tax reliefs? Why do not the government and the majority of the population do more to take care of jobs in the retail trade and other retail trade affected by the 350-kroner exemption threshold? These are sectors that are often referred to as one of the government's most important inclusion venues. Many people who need help in the labour market get employment training in these sectors. Why do these industries then have to face an additional competition from cheap direct imports? According to the operating numbers, l5 million packages from China come into Norway, they have an average weight of 170 grams. The increase is large and represents between 25 and 30 pst. of the total. Postal consignments from China are sent approximately free of shipping costs because China is subject to the UN Postal Agreement to help developing countries afford to post them. The Post Director says they're losing money on all the goods in letters coming from these countries. It creates unfortunate consequences for the Post – of course. They lose money on this, and the common fund – that is, the state budget – must contribute. Norwegian online shops have to pay much more in postage when they send their goods to Norwegian customers. It is far more expensive to send the same product from Sandefjord than from China. That's not how we build the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e564	It's a general case, but it goes into many of the debates we're going to have later today. With regard to the withholding tax on foreign workers, it is timely to ask those who oppose the introduction as it stands today: How high is the rate? An assessment is requested. Well, the assessment is done. It can almost not be assessed more than it has been done. There's been a broad consultation. All hearing bodies have been given the right to express their views on their position, and the government has opted for the highest rate in the letter of consultation. 25 pst. is a cumulative tax rate, taking into account those who have submitted their wishes and opinions. In 2014 we saw that about 34 pst. the taxes in Norway that have a D-number had at least one possible error in their tax returns. That this is optional is in the interests of the EEA Agreement. The introduction of the scheme is for the purpose of collecting the right tax. I know that the Central Party is basically against the EEA Agreement as a whole, but this highlights, in this case, how important it is that we have foreign workers who come and contribute to the growth we have in Norway. I think it's a very strange argument of the Center Party that you don't want to introduce a scheme that will tax foreign workers better than you do today. If the Central Party is actually too cut in red tape and for simplification in the public sector, this choice is simple, then the scheme should be supported. What rate will the Workers' Party and the Centre have? How do they feel, then, that more will enter into a system, which is a simplification, rather than today's solution, which, as pointed out, has many weaknesses? I hope we can get an answer to this. The main problem is that with today's system, the problem is to introduce the right tax. It is very labour-intensive for the tax bill to collect the tax due today. If this is a scheme that can lead to simplification and that we can collect the right tax, I think there is something that should be supported in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e577	To the tax system for non-resident workers: it is said from several speakers that this will contribute to simplification. Here a scheme is set up which is optional for the individual employee. In principle, it is not certain that there is a single foreign employee who will benefit from the scheme. It remains to be seen. Of course, it also has to do with what kind of tax rate you spend on. It is remarkable when one says that one will establish — but describes all the problems that currently relate to proper taxation and control of foreign workers — a scheme that is optional for each employee. If the individual foreign employee sees himself as a part of the existing system, i.e. what is today, and does not change to the new system, he or she is quite free to do so. Therefore, I also have to say that I am a bit over the rest of the opposition, which believes that this is a good system to go into – a system of freedom of choice for the individual employee, where a screws up the tax rate. Of course, if the tax rate is adequately increased, all foreign employees will find that it is not favourable to enter the new scheme and remain in the existing scheme. In that case, there's no simplification. One does not achieve better control. That's why the Center Party rejects the whole new arrangement. If we're going to have a new scheme, it makes sense to have a scheme that applies to non-resident workers in general, where one is clear on which rules apply. There are probably many workers who would have liked to be able to choose what kind of tax arrangements you should be subject to. Norwegian workers too would have thought it reasonable that one could choose what would give the lowest tax, but that is not how we build up the tax system in Norway. To the representative of Njåstad, who was in place – and supported – tax relief from the government. The government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, has provided 6.6 billion. NOK net in increased charges during the period in which it has been sitting. This applies to taxes on sugar and chocolate products, i.e. approx. 2 billion. SEK in increased taxes on domestic air transport, in the case of increased electricity charges for several rounds and in the case of increased taxes on fuel. The centre party has another option, such as: means a lower tax on all persons who have 700000 or less of income each year. This means that some of those with the highest income in Norway have to contribute more to the community — but it has their backs to bear.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e592	The tax change that we're talking about now, by 25 pst. for foreign workers, will provide a competitive advantage for foreign workers, no matter how we turn around and turn around. More than NOK 14 000 will be left with a foreign employee if he has an income below step 3. The representative, Wang Soleim, said that the taxation of foreign workers is better than it is today because one gets more into tax resources. So I'm almost going to have to ask you, how does a 50 million sample cap explain? What's the kr?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e599	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e615	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e624	I would first like to thank you for the work done in the Committee. Then I would say that removing machine taxes is an important victory for business all over the country. Like the property tax, this is a tax that affects Norwegian companies regardless of whether they are going in profit or in deficit. The Norwegian equity industry is being bottled up in heavy times, which, in turn, goes beyond the ability to keep itself going and – not least – to invest for the future. Lowering taxes on Norwegian enterprises and jobs is one of the main objectives of this government. Without jobs in Norway, our welfare society will not keep going. The skills we have built up will not remain in the country unless the wise minds have the capital to research and drive new, innovative solutions in business. I'm not going to spend much more time now saying why this is a proper grip, but I'm still going to say that we're already seeing the effect of the change that's made. For example, State power clearly signals that they can now start investing in data centres in Norway, now that one of our disadvantages and unpredictable factors has been removed. The emergence of data centres is probably also due to the need for more green access, but there is no doubt that such positive changes in the framework conditions play a major and decisive role in making investment decisions. So to the representative proposal of the Workers' Party: firstly, it is claimed that there is no time to carry out the taxing work that is necessary. This amendment was adopted in December last year and the deadline for finding the property tax base to be included in the compensation scheme is 1 March 2019. In other words, you had well over a year to do the necessary taxing. And there is the difference between the tariff set for the current installation in 2018 and the new tariff for 2019, which is what will be compensated and escalated over seven years. And from 2019, works and use have been removed as a tax option. Thus, only one new taxiing is needed for 2019, and what then has to be taxed is empty and building with machinery and equipment that serves the construction. This is a significantly easier assessment, and the legal preparation presented by the State budget for 2018 is clear. When the job becomes much easier, the number of valuers who can carry out the job will also increase considerably. In addition, many tariff reports are already distinguishing between the different categories — among others. In its 2017 tariff reports, the Labour Party-led Oslo does so – which means that the job has almost already been done. And it is now up to the municipalities to carry out the necessary taxiing in good time before the deadline, which is completely possible. When it comes to clarifying the transitional rule, I touched on it in my article on the previous case. This change is very positive for business. We remove an old provision that has proved very difficult to use in the legal system, and there is provision for capital and investment capacity to create more jobs across the country, also in the municipalities that are opposed to this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e641	Today's case is about adapting the map to the terrain after the decision that was made a late night to remove the property tax on works and use, also called machine tax. The transitional rules that came were unclear: Could the municipalities only print property taxes on buildings and land, should these be stepped down, and had to expand to all commercial property to enter under the transitional rules? At present, the government has had to come up with these requested clarifications. That's good, and that doesn't make that part of our original proposal. However, there is still much unclear – and unclear – and the criteria for the compensation scheme were not revised, as promised. There are a total of 348 municipalities that print property taxes on works and use today. Do you want all the retraces before the deadline? And are they enough valuers? A collective Kommune-Noreg says no, because the amount to be taxed is increasing. Due to the absence of tax revenue from works and uses, a tax on property must now be imposed on other small and medium-sized enterprises in order to maintain the supply of education, older people and health. Municipal convergence: here all have to re-accelerated in order to have the same rules by 2020, and they have to do double work. The government party also argued that the taxing based on the new restriction will be much simpler than today – but it will not. The rules governing the scope of legislation, such as ‘production equipment’ and ‘production installations’, are still unclear. It's hard to distinguish between what makes production and what makes sense. Change interface: New law requires assessment for each single use, whether the residual property is to be valued by market value or by buy-back value. It is unclear how the market value should be determined. Far from all cost reports, there is a difference between construction, emptying and machines. It is also said that in the future one should use the same method as for commercial property, but there is no single practice for the valuation of commercial property. There is still a need for point competence here. It is not the case that tax collectors in the Norwegian Takseringsbund operate with ownership tax revenue. The re-taxation provided that the valuer has carried out the taxing according to the tax law and has a practice based on that law. That's where the constraint comes in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e652	The representative might want to address the proposal in the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e657	I will do so, and I will deal with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e662	The representative Heggø then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e667	I noticed that on the part of the rapporteur, there is no way in which this tax change, which was carried out in the state budget for the current year, will have positive consequences outside the country – a change that the majority itself estimates for a reduction of 500 million. kr. When the same majority overnight increases the sugar and chocolate levy and the non-alcoholic drink levy by 2 billion. kr, it is clearly quite correct and when one has an increase in the charges on domestic air transport of 2 billion. kr, a person must obviously be able to live perfectly well with it. When removing boot writes in balancing group d for those such as: invests in new machinery in industry, a change that was assessed to give a billion dollars. kr in increased tax, it is clearly also something business should live very well with. But in a change one itself evaluates to 0.5 billion. kr in the relief, there is clearly no way in which it should have a positive impact. It would have been very wise in this case, it also shows what we have to deal with now, to spend more time reviewing the changes that were made before Christmas – spending time through a law selection, also because there are demanding borderlines. One had made some borderline moves in the government's proposal, and then new borderlines came through the budget agreement, and one still sees that this is very unclear for the municipalities that are affected. The only thing you know is that the municipalities that are affected will lose, while international actors and the state will secure themselves through the changes that are being implemented. It is a major problem that the notified compensation scheme is not provided, while one is progressing at the time of the change. There are 348 municipalities that are currently issuing property taxes on works and use, and that are going to do a reparation in a few months. Clear feedback has been received from both KS, the municipalities of hydropower, the industrial municipalities and the municipalities of petroleum that this is demanding, in terms of both the pace and the content of the recharge to be made – what is construction, what is installation, what serves production, and what serves construction, and that is, among other things. unclear what is in market value. It is particularly important to achieve a deferred implementation. It's wise to spend time here. The majority have not done so far. I think it is a pity that someone does not support our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e678	SV was and is opposed to the changes in the property tax that were adopted in connection with the State budget in the autumn. Local property taxes help to ensure the well-being of communities around the country and provide local ring-fences for businesses. Property taxes are an important part of the local democratic space for action — the only locally determined source of income that local authorities can decide on. Today, there are 348 municipalities that print property taxes on works and use. The amendment of the legislation implies that all of these works and uses have to be repatriated by 1 March of next year. The workload and complexity are different for each of the uses. It should be possible to make greater impressions when an overall local authority sector says that it is not possible to have all works re-approved and used simultaneously in all municipalities within the deadline. It is also interesting that this government, which believes to be so concerned with efficiency improvement, does not see the major challenges of this regression in parallel with the community merger. The Minister of Finance acknowledges that it is difficult for municipalities to reach the deadline, but asks for municipalities to harmonise as quickly as possible. You actually order a solid portion of double work. Although we disagree with this whole change, it should be possible to agree that putting in place the right tax and common harmonised, clear rules would be wise for implementation, the state and the municipalities. The size has adopted a compensation scheme limited up to 500 million. kr. The amount is not sufficient to compensate for the loss of income of municipalities. Surveys show that 119 municipalities will lose more than 500 million. NOK, and when we know that the entire 348 municipalities print property taxes on works and use, it should be obvious that compensation needs to be increased. The implementation of this change should in any case be postponed until a better investigation has been made of the actual tax loss and how the compensation should actually be distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e691	Unlike the speakers from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV who were on the interlocutory now before me, we from the Left are very pleased that the machine tax was removed in the state budget for 2018. It is a victory for increased business life throughout the country. The machine tax was bureaucratic, unpredictable and arbitrary. The representative proposal is therefore an attempt at a rematch from the opposition, but fortunately not a rematch they win. The removal of machine taxes will lead to more jobs and better conditions for Norwegian enterprises. We're gonna be happy for that. There is a fundamental error in taxing production machinery, tools needed to create added value, jobs and value creation. We have learned that some municipalities are concerned about the loss of income, but the matter is that by removing the tax, we make it easier for companies to establish themselves in just these municipalities. It will create more local jobs and have a positive impact on a wide range of other sectors that depend on corner stone holdings for flowering. The establishment of data centres is just one example of the harmfulness of machine taxes and the importance of their removal. We also have to bear in mind that this has a phase-out period of seven years, and with almost full compensation for municipalities that reduce their income. That is why I am very pleased that the proposal does not come forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e700	Property taxes on machinery and production equipment have been burdensome to many enterprises for a long time. This was therefore a correct and important grip. Now we also see new start-ups as a result of the improved predictability of the rule change. A postponement on the basis of a claim that the municipalities are not able to retrace, I believe that it is both unwise and unnecessary. The transitional rule applies to the difference between the 2018 tariff and the new 2019 tariff, where the latter does not include production equipment and production installations. It is therefore only necessary to re-tax. This tariff will cover only land and buildings. I assume that it is usually the production equipment that is most demanding to tax. Taxiing based on the new demarcation will be significantly simpler and less time consuming than full taxiing of the plant including machinery and equipment, as under the previous rules. The new tariffs are to be based on market value, while for works and uses they were built on the repurchase value, which normally requires a broader assessment. Taxiing under the new rules will require less special competence and the number of potential valuers will increase. Furthermore, I point out that in many cases existing tariffs distinguish between buildings, land and machines. It could therefore be labour-saving to base the new tariffs on these. It will not normally be difficult to determine what constitutes production equipment either, since in many cases this will be consistent with what constitutes working machinery in accordance with the previous rules. It is also argued that the merger of municipalities in the municipalities where this is the case suggests a postponement. Problems related to community mergers are usually solved through transitional arrangements based on the law of division. Then it is stated that the transitional rule is unclear and should be clarified. This applies, inter alia, to the fact that municipalities that print property taxes only on works and uses in 2018 have to extend the output to all commercial property in order to apply the transitional rule. The Government has made proposals in Prop. 86 LS for 2017-2018 on clarification of the transitional rule, so that it can be seen directly from the wording that such extension will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e712	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e717	A late night class gave the municipalities that had property taxes on works and use, a loss of income of about 1 billion. kr. Yet the individual municipality does not know how much they actually lose. We didn't get that list. When do you get a list of your municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e722	First to this claim about a late night hour: this is a proposal that has been thoroughly investigated and discussed for a long time before the government proposed it to the Stortinget. What was discussed in the negotiations was transitional rules, precisely to give municipalities some better time to adapt. I believe that we have taken good care of that, and with the transitional arrangements and clarifications contained in this from the government, I believe – as I also said in my post – that we have acknowledged the unrest that some in the opposition have raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e727	When 118 out of 348 municipalities had reported the loss of income, the total was 501 million. kr. A joint committee has acknowledged that 500 million. kr not in close proximity is almost full compensation. We heard in several articles from the representatives of the government parties that there was full compensation. What is the criterion underlying new compensation for municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e732	Let me first underline what this matter is all about. It is about facilitating business activities around the country. And, as I said in my post, this change leads to more start-ups in Norwegian business. That's good. I notice that a little bit of the discussion and argument that comes from the opposition is a little subduing, a little bit depending on what case we're discussing. At one moment it is presented as touching the business community, but at the next moment it is not the business community that is on the agenda at all, then there is compensation for the municipalities that you are occupied with. The municipality economy in Norway is good. Municipality-Norway is going with solid profits. There have never been fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list. I think that's what I'm talking about to clean this up and facilitate business is a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e739	The Minister of Finance, in his reply, rejected the need for deferred implementation, said that taxing under the new rules would require less special competence. This is directly contrary to what the municipalities themselves stress. Among other things, the industrial municipalities have written the following: the municipalities will raise the question of whether the department has sufficient insight into the structure of current tariffs. For many municipalities, the situation is that the tariffs have to be substantially rebuilt because it is not specified in land, buildings and accessories that serve the building. The industrial municipalities think it is wrong when the Minister of Finance gives the impression that the regression of the municipalities will be less complicated and less time consuming. What kind of information does the Minister of Finance have that the industrial communities, which themselves are involved in the issues, and who know their everyday lives, don't have?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e746	These details I explained well and thoroughly to in my post, which I just kept. I believe that the opposition is creating unnecessary problems out of this. We have notified this. It is a significant transitional period. Now there's new clarifications about this. I have to say I am quite amazed at the representative Geelsvik, who at one moment presents himself as a man who is concerned about the business conditions and interests, while in this case it is not at all near being on his table – and that in a situation where the community economy is bottom-solid. Municipality-Norway is going with solid profits. I believe that this is a good time to give a relief to business around the district of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e753	The Centre Party has proposed targeted relief for Norwegian business in its alternative budgets, and we have proposed lower charges than the current annual budget of the Government Parties and the majority. For the property tax on work and use, it makes sense to do this through a legal selection when one sees the demanding limitations that are, as one also sees in the case we are dealing with now, as regards the time of implementation. The danger is that the development that has taken place during Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance will continue – that there will be an increase in property taxes in municipalities, that there will be an increase in property taxes on housing, and that there will be an increase in property taxes in other businesses, because the municipalities have no oil fund to draw from. When they do not receive compensation, they have to find other solutions to collect the income. Is this what the Minister of Finance will see in the future, that the development of increased property taxes in municipalities will escalate with the change that is taking place here?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e762	It is up to the municipalities themselves to decide whether to impose property taxes or not. I record that there are very many Senterpart-led municipalities that do just that. They then obviously follow the same principle as the Central Party does in Stortinget: One later on as if one were the best friend of business, but sharpens the tax and tax investment together by billions of dollars. It is an honest thing that the Center Party disagrees with this relief for Norwegian business in the districts. But making a proposal that, in fact, is asking for a postponement on a matter, only seems to be a rematch. This has been a well-founded proposal, this makes sense, this gives jobs in the districts, and we intend to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e769	What makes sense when implementing major changes is that one does so in the way that a regular approach is taken in Norway, with a legislative committee where stakeholders are allowed to look at the changes before implementing them, and where stakeholders are given sufficient time to implement the changes — especially when there is a need for repatriation in 348 municipalities in Norway. That makes sense. Through its arrangements, the centre has helped to reduce the tax burden on Norwegian business in many contexts. We also propose a significantly strengthened municipal economy, so that one, among other things, can reduce property taxes in Norway — in contrast to what the government does, which instead proposes reduced taxes for those who have the most already. Why can't one from the government instead strengthen the local economy, so that one avoids property taxes in so many municipalities in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e776	After all, this government has strengthened the local economy. I do not know how strong the local economy must be in the eyes of the centre party until the rapporteurs of the centre party around the country leave it to be either to introduce or increase the property tax. It's a choice. The easiest thing a politician can do is put the tax tube in people's pockets to solve tasks that you want to finance in the municipality. I disagree with that, I'm basically not a property tax follower, because I think it's fundamentally unsocial. In this case, it is about property taxes on works and use, on machines, for Norwegian business located in the districts. Firstly, this is a system that has been thoroughly investigated, it does not require further investigation. Secondly, good transitional arrangements have been ensured through the Great Britain treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e782	In November, I asked a written question to the Minister of Finance about Narvik Municipality and the mining company LKAB, which has contributed significantly to the local economy through the income from the property tax for works and use. My question then was when the municipality knows what kind of compensation they get, how long it will be, when it comes, and what distribution it will be. Then the finance minister replied that it would bring her back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. That question also applies today, because it is still unclear, after we have been audited, when the municipalities get an overview of the compensation. And there's reason to add here that a prerequisite for a good economy out in the municipalities is that the municipalities have the opportunity to plan future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e789	I fully agree with the latter. It is important for municipalities to have predictability so that they can create realistic budgets. However, this does not mean that local businesses and local residents have to be taxed through unnecessary property taxes. There are some of us who believe that lower taxes and taxes are good for households and good for Norwegian businesses because they keep their own value creation, retain more of their own income, rather than that the politicians are going to distribute the money on their behalf. So this already turns out to be a good system that creates new value creation in District Norway. I am very pleased that we have introduced this, and believe that we have answered many of the issues that have been on the wallpaper during the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e796	I did not feel that I received an answer to my question. For Narvik municipality in concrete terms, it's 37 million. kr which is the loss of income. We may disagree on the property tax – that is SV and the Progress Party – but it must nevertheless be possible to get an understanding from the government and the finance minister because it is desirable for municipalities to know how the distribution of compensation will be. You put the municipalities in a quite impossible situation when they don't even know when they know what the income will be like in the future. I think the Minister of Finance should be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e801	We have provided the information that is available to Stortinget and will come back with new information when it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e806	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e813	It will very often be wrong to make changes to the laws of more than a hundred years old, where the case-law has fine-tuned how to carry out these assessments, without investigating consequences, or whether those who have been set to manage this legislation know what rules are now in force for charging. The change in the law is not good in itself, and with this postponement proposal we have tried to prevent some of the worst outcomes. The municipalities have been responsible for three types of taxiing. It has been on dwellings, it has been on commercial property, and it has been on works and uses, large, complex factories. It does not change the facts about the taxiing of works and the use of new names, the machine tax. It has never hit computer servers. In the state budget, the entire category of work and use was removed, without a legal investigation in advance, and without the municipalities knowing how to tax. Is the factory to be treated as the corner kiosk? The government knows nothing about who makes the most of the change, e.g. how many large foreign groups are now free to pay any kind of tax to Norway. I asked a written question about it before Christmas, and the government confirmed it: we do not know how much of this money goes abroad. In the Nordic region, three large manufacturing plants pay a total of 45 million. kr. It's American Alcoa in the Sea, it's Bluestar in Southfold, and it's LKAB in Narvik. The State has said that they will pay this tax for them, through a compensation scheme for the municipalities. In addition to the fact that our tax money is being used quite unwisely, it is unsustainable that the municipalities do not yet know how much compensation they will receive. That's the way it goes when you have the hope that a change will create new jobs, but don't bother to explain the facts. I hear it is said in the Chamber today that it has created new jobs, but I am afraid that this change is like the general relief in the wealth tax: it cannot be documented that it creates jobs, and you do not want to build on facts. There's a need for faith. The working party knows that there is a lot else that has decided that the large companies have chosen Norway. It's our power resources, which are fundamental to several of the big businesses, it's access to land, it's clean water and other natural resources, and it's orderly government. We've been characterised by predictability. This government is not predictable in terms of tax regimes, neither for corporations nor for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e828	I would like to comment on a lot of things, but to take the last post of the representative: it is said that it has never affected data centres. Well, that's weird in that case, when we see that it's actually an increase in the number of data centers, and when big actors like Statkraft signal that it's now time to invest. In the proposal, the Workers' Party writes that there will be extensive tax work if the municipalities that will lose income as a result of this change have to impose property taxes on commercial property in order to obtain enough money. I strongly disagree that the municipalities now have to look at introducing a completely new tax on all business activities in the municipalities, at least when we know that it is business that provides jobs, value creation, sponsorship of volunteers, and that young people move back to their municipality, and at least when we know that the municipalities are compensated for the loss of income they receive, in the transitional scheme. Are the municipalities really going to introduce both a new tax and be compensated for an old tax? There is no reason to increase the tax burden on business now. I would also like to remind you from this pulpit that all municipalities in this country get enough money – based on the same criteria and the keys – to operate their municipality. In fact, the free income of municipalities has increased during this government, and the number of municipalities on the ROBEK list has never been so low. Therefore, there is no need to follow up the proposal of the Workers’ Party to postpone the implementation of this change, a change that is a long-term and positive contribution to more jobs in Norway. So to the Center Party, who wants a law commission. Is it true that the Central Party is in favour of this proposal, just through a legislative committee? Or is it just a new way of postponing it, for then in the next round to say no? This matter has been through a consultation, in 2015. It was presented in the state budget for the current year. It has been investigated, and it has been well investigated. So let's get to it with the valuers and the capacity. Yes, if the municipalities now start the necessary taxing, and start it early, there are no signals from the tax industry that this cannot be done. In terms of work and use: Yes, the old legislation on work and use needed a point of reference. But there is no need to demand such a top competence when it comes to taxiing construction and land, which is the job to be done now. The Labour Party must be able to respond to: Will they also oppose these changes in their alternative budget for 2019? Do you actually want to reverse a tax relief for companies that have large machines in their business? Perhaps they should add the next visit to the sole proprietor rather than to the local town hall. It is not that it is the municipal budget of the Kingdom that creates well-being in this country. It is business, and there are jobs that create a value that is taxed to the community. It has forgotten the left side, and this postponement proposal is directly anti-business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e847	What got me to take the word again was the line change where the Council of State didn't entirely answer how the criteria should become for the compensation scheme. There is too much evidence that the amount is 500 million. Kr far from it is sufficient to give away full compensation. So I ask again, how is the criteria going to be? How are these funds to be distributed? Who shouldn't get? When is this coming? This uncertain one is still hanging over the municipalities. They shall establish a budget without knowing what revenue they receive. That's how the government treats the municipalities. Whenever you see that a late-night decision has major defects and errors, it should be corrected. Here you can select more time for your local government to get the right tax treatment. One would think that everyone thought that the laws and regulations were clear and manageable to follow, and that they had time to implement it. Local authorities also need adequate framework conditions and income in order to maintain their provision for schools, the elderly and health. Such permissive conditions should be given to the municipalities. So to the green data storage centre: A clearly broken NHO director had to recognise at the LVK meeting last week that the green data storage centre – Mo i Rana, Vennesla and Ringerijk – was probably long before the night when the municipalities lost property tax for a billion. According to current practice, servers are loose for work and use, and here the Council of State should have clarified the regulations to remove all doubts. Then a man had to throw the child out with the bath water, as one now does. What is at least right is what the representative, Mr Ropstad, said in case No. 1 today – the rules were unclear. That's precisely because the Workers' Party and others in the opposition have said that we want a law selection that goes through it, get a total review. But the overall review and overview are the government's opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e856	I have a question for the Minister of Finance, to which I hope she can answer. I am constantly hearing the Minister of Finance say that there are so many municipalities that have come out of the ROBEK list. Can the Council of State explain how many municipalities that had been on the ROBEK list without property tax, and is it not to be on the ROBEK list the final goal of how the Progress Party and the government believe that Norwegian municipalities should be run? Is it about quality, what you get out of the money, and what offers are given to the population? Or do you now measure the success of Norwegian municipalities only according to whether you are on the ROBEK list? It is a very central question to get answers since it is used by government representatives constantly. How many Norwegian municipalities would have been on the ROBEK list if they had not had the income from property taxes? I think there's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e867	As for the question from Aasrud, I think it's a good idea not to rely on faith, but to rely on facts. It's a standing question I can't answer, of course, simply because it's a hypothetical question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e873	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e889	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e898	In this matter, I would like to thank the Committee for its excellent cooperation, which has led to the support of an overall committee. I also express this joy in view of the history of this matter. The 2016 tax settlement is the starting point for the tax we currently have on financial services, and in the light of the agreement, which was also backed by a large majority of the Stortinget, it is good that this big business can also work together. In my view, it has been important to try to bring together all the parties on the Grand Duchy of Great Britain on a compromise and a common position. This is in the interests of an important factor that may be more important for all businesses than anything else in this area, namely predictability of the framework conditions that lie ahead. The parties in this room have a lot of disagreement in several areas of taxation, but we also have to see that predictability is important for the business that we all want to support. So when there's a political basis for finding a common solution, I think we're going to sit down and try to do just that, considering that sudden changes and temporary solutions are not wanted by the business community. Taxation of financial services has been a topic for several years. In its last State budget for 2014, the Stoltenberg II Government presented a outline of how to tax the financial industry with a general VAT on services subject to charges, together with a tax on margin revenue in the financial sector. It was then announced that the model would be an international innovation and would require significant regulatory work before the Storting could decide to introduce it. Both the Financial Crisis Committee and the Tax Committee considered that the government should continue to work on the challenge of the non-neutral nature of the financial industry in terms of VAT. It also joined the Financial Committee during the 2016 tax settlement, at the same time setting a deadline for the introduction of a tax ruling for 2017. When it wasn't possible to put in place such a model, the majority of the Biggest introduced a simpler tax, which we have today. It involves 5 pst. higher taxes on wages and salaries and that the corporation tax is retained at 25 p.m. The decision introducing the current financial tax also provides for an assessment of the tax arrangements in the light of the work of the Hjelmeng Committee towards the EEA and for a closer look at the relative distribution of wages and profits in the determination of the financial tax. That assessment is under way by the government. It is also stated in the Government Platform that such an assessment is to be made. What an overall committee is doing today is setting a time frame for when the government is expected to return something to the Storting. This is a predictable and good way to do it, and I again thank the Committee for good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e909	Norway needs more jobs, not fewer ones. Therefore, it is very gratifying that we now have all the parties involved in the removal of the special tax on work in the financial industry. It is in many ways like greeting home when I, who has worked 20 years in a bank, face a matter that is so strongly engaged among my former colleagues. Broad political bargaining in tax matters is important and provides a long-term framework. It eats up this important industry. Today’s model is unfair and has considerable negative consequences, especially for small and medium-sized banks. This may affect competition and threaten the shortage of banks. It is simply not fair that the financial industry should be punished for having many jobs and branches around the country. The Labour Party is similar to LO, Finans Norway and Finansföretag (FIF) concerns that current financial tax arrangements can lead to job closures, especially in the districts. We also see that the downsizing in savings banks increases from 1.4 pst. in 2016 to 4 pst. in 2017. These are a lot of jobs. Today's proposal is twofold. The size asks for an assessment by 2019 of whether the models with an expanded VAT base on financial services and margin charges are something that should be further worked on or not – and also an assessment of the proposal on higher corporate tax payable in the future. The proposal also means that work is now under way on finding other models, so that the extraordinary employer fee of 5 pst. may be decommissioned and replaced by a system which is not a special tax on work. The government must submit a proposal at the latest in the State budget for 2020. There is complete agreement that the financial tax has come to be, but it is urgent to get a final clarification that the special tax on work in the financial industry should be abolished. The finance industry in Norway is a well-driving industry, and the Labour Party suggested in the Financial Market Communication that a separate growth report on the financial industry should be prepared. This is also something that both LO, Finans Norway and the Swedish Financial Service have called for. I don't think we'll get a lot of numbers for our proposal, which will be made a little bit later today, but we'll see.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e924	In the light of the proposal, the proposers wish to replace the current model, which includes an increased tax on labour, with a model of adding VAT to financial services, and at the same time require the maintenance of the proceeds. The current model can be justified by the fact that the added value is taxed as a whole as a result of the added value provided by labour combined with the profits of companies. But today's model is not optimal, and therefore there is also reason to consider how best and in the most equitable way can tax the financial sector. For the Progress Party, it is important that an amended fiscal regime for the financial industry should be a change for the better — and takes into account the need to be stable, predictable and long-term, without the need for new changes after a short period of time. Therefore, we believe it is important to wait until the government’s assessment of the financial tax is available. The Progress Party joins the rest of the Committee asking the Government to assess whether a VAT model for financial services and margin levy should continue to be worked on and to consider the proposal for an increase in corporate tax paid in the future. Furthermore, we have joined in the proposal that the government within the state budget for 2020 should come back to the Stortinget with a proposal for a revenue-neutral conversion of the financial tax and the removal of an increase in the levy on salaries, in line with what we have agreed on also in the Jeløya platform. We look forward to the government's assessment of reasonable taxation being presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e937	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work on the matter. It is very gratifying that it is now possible to change the financial tax regime. It's high time. There is a clear order from an overall committee in the vote: work with modified arrangements on the financial tax must be prioritised by the government, progress must be reported in the government budget for the autumn, and, not least, a new model of the financial tax must be introduced to remove the increased employer’s tax, and it must be included in the government budget for 2020. It is a very necessary change that is outlined here by the committee, a clear order for the government. The centre party has wanted this change over a longer period of time. We have proposed this in our alternative budgets – both for 2017 and for 2018. It is important to remove the additional employer’s tax element in the financial tax. It's an element that helps to make it less profitable to have employees. The cost of the employees is rising, and as the representative Hegø pointed out, it is worrying about the increasing downsizing that one has seen in the financial sector. There will be a competitive disadvantage for those banks, not least some savings banks around the country, which are based on a different business model than other banks, which have relatively more employees. Just on account of those banks and for good banking services across the country, based on a variety of banks, it is incredibly important to change the arrangements for financial taxation. There are different models for what's going to happen. I would like to stress that it is important to continue to investigate what is going on in terms of VAT on financial services in combination with taxes on margin income, but it is also important to look at increased taxes on industry profits. There are also important signals that are given by our side, namely that this should be a proven neutral conversion. It is also important to ensure that a change in the financial tax does not contribute to incentives for increased profit movements, to ensure that there is a fair taxing of the financial industry, which also contributes to foreign actors in Norway. We look forward to the proposal that will extend what is being adopted here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e948	SV is for financial taxes, and we have been working on this for many years before the government introduced it. SV has proposed introducing VAT for the financial sector into all alternative government budgets since 2013. It was therefore gratifying that the government, despite the criticism of the SV's proposals, introduced financial taxes. However, we were amazed at the model presented by the government, where the financial tax was designed as a combination of an additional employer's tax and a higher tax rate. A key reason for introducing VAT in the financial sector is to ensure that the sector is taxed in the same way as other businesses. The government's model has had a number of negative effects, without all the positive effects of such taxation, such as the ability of business to keep VAT accounts for financial services. Such a design of the financial tax has been at the disposal of the Ministry of Finance for a longer period of time, but the work on looking further at that model may not have been prioritised by the government. Therefore, there was no alternative model for the first time to introduce financial taxes. Finanz Norway and the Finanzverbund have also proposed an alternative model for increased employer pay. That model is based on an increase in corporation tax along with the advance payment of taxes, i.e. future taxes. Today, the model of the day affects, in particular, small and medium-sized banks. Competition is weakened in favour of non-resident enterprises with few employees. There is now a danger that today’s system could lead to job closure, especially in the districts. It is important that the new tax with a new model covers all banks operating in Norway. So we're very happy that we're now getting a majority in order for the government to look at alternative models. I would also like to thank you for the cooperation we have developed in the Committee on this. The Government shall present both the models and proposals to remove the employer’s fee in the context of the State budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e961	The financial tax was introduced as part of the agreement of the Stortinget on tax reform and shall be a tax on added value in financial services. Value added in production is created both by labour and by capital. Therefore, the financial tax is partly based on the employer’s tax and partly on the profits of the companies. Current financial taxes help to reduce some of the unfortunate effects of financial services being exempted from VAT and are positive. However, the financial tax also has several weaknesses compared to a neutral VAT. I refer to my reply to the Financial Committee dated 9 May. In the proposal for a representative, the rapporteurs have referred to two different solutions for a new financial tax. The only solution is to abolish financial taxes on wages and salaries and to increase financial taxes on profits. On previous occasions, I have expressed some scepticism about going this way, because the solution will not make the financial tax more neutral, rather the opposite. However, if we want to make such a ‘change in financial taxes’, I would in any case warn against implementing it in the form of a new forward-looking profit tax. It is unfortunate to use large resources to introduce a permanent special scheme only for the purpose of counteracting a one-year progeny cover in the conversion to a pure surplus tax. The proposal also refers to a solution in which the VAT base is extended to financial services where technically possible and a charge is made on margin revenue which has the neutrality characteristics of a VAT. While there will be an effective and neutral financial tax, it will be a significant effort to determine how such a financial tax can possibly be implemented in practice. The Ministry is assessing alternative devices of the financial tax. In our assessments, we will assume that the financial tax will continue to provide revenue to the State and that it will counteract the unfortunate distortions caused by the fact that financial services are exempt from VAT. It is also necessary to clarify the EEA aspects of the financial tax on profits. The decision adopted by the Committee requires the government to submit a proposal for a new financial tax at the latest in the context of the 2020 budget. I am pleased that the Committee is not currently committed to concrete changes as from 2019, as in the original proposal. Instead, the majority of the Committee asks the Government to present a preliminary assessment of changes in the financial tax at the latest in the context of the 2019 budget. I will therefore come back to Stortinget with such a statement in connection with the state budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e978	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e983	The government would give foreign employees a competitive advantage over Norwegian workers, as they showed in case No. 1 today, during the discussion there. Later today, we will also discuss removing the 350-kroner limit, which goes directly beyond Norwegian workplaces. Nor does the extra tax on work want the Council of State to do something about it in the first place. The financial tax is an additional tax on labour. And to be perfectly clear, the proposal that is agreed in Stortinget today is that the extra tax on work should go away no matter what solution one comes to. How will the Minister of Finance implement the will of Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e988	Let me first say that I disagree with the claim that the government will introduce foreign workers, or give them a competitive advantage. I thoroughly refuted that in the previous debate. When it comes to the debate on the 350-kroner limit, I'll get back to it pretty soon. With regard to the financial tax, I pointed to several distortions of this and have done so in the past. I agree that the financial tax has some weaknesses, but I am also sure that the industry will be able to pay the tax, and that it will continue to provide good services to both Norwegian consumers and Norwegian business. As I said in my post, I'm going to follow up on this, but we have to figure it out, so it's going to be a real job before we get to the Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e996	Why has the proposal for VAT on financial services not been tested against ESA before?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1001	We have explained this quite thoroughly in the context of the proposal which was the basis of the decision taken in the Grand Duchy some time ago. The Stoltenberg government, who also sketched the room to do this, pointed out that it was not very simple. It's a very complicated work. That's why we've fallen into an intermediate solution, which I agree has unfortunate sides. It's good that we can then look at how we can correct the unfortunate sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1006	It is very good and timely to ensure that the additional employer’s tax element in the financial tax is removed, and I am pleased that the Council of State is clear that this should be followed up. Then the Ministry of Finance has an ongoing consultation on financial taxes in joint registered enterprises. I would like to say that it makes sense to also address the changes that have been proposed, but what is nevertheless the question now when entering a process where the additional employer fee will be removed is whether it would not be wise to await changes for those affected, such as savings banks, which could then receive an additional employer's fee. Would it not make sense to wait for the changes related to joint ventures to see the total changes in the financial tax due in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1011	It's not that simple. In the original representative proposal on which it was based, we wanted to make these changes a lot sooner. Now the representative says Görlsvik that we should perhaps wait even a little longer. I'm following up the majority of the committee and the Storting now asking me to do, and will come back to it appropriately.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1016	On the part of the Centre Party, it would be nice if the changes in the way in which the additional employer’s fee is removed had taken place before. We have proposed that in our alternative budgets in the last two years. But to what I specifically ask questions: Now there is a consultation going on to extend the financial tax linked to joint-registered activities that could lead to today's activities within, among other things. the savings bank group will be able to increase the tax on its labour – if one does not wait for the changes to remove the additional employer’s tax within the financial tax will be implemented. It is in the perspective I ask: is it not reasonable then to wait with the changes that are at the hearing – their implementation – until one sees the overall change in the financial tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1021	We're going to try to take with us all the assessments that are made on these issues, but at the same time I intend to follow up on what a majority of the Stortinges ask me to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1026	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1033	We in the government parties have our own comments and emphasize that a model with a different device than today's first has to be better than the one we have today. By that I believe that any weaknesses in another model must not be greater than the weaknesses we can experience with today's model. Secondly, I believe that another device must stand over time. We must try to avoid changing tax arrangements from year to year or adopting a tax regime that will lead to a new assessment and uncertainty. That is why I also believe that the order for the Government of II should not be interpreted too snugly. A device without the pay element must be proposed, but also other devices, if any. If we are to adopt a model that can last over time, it is important that Stortinget has the widest possible decision-making base, and we know more about what should be further worked on – and not. I would also like to comment on the opinion of the proposers that the increased tax on wages has had significant negative consequences, justified by the decrease in the number of employees. It has to be mentioned here that 2017 is the first year after today's financial tax was introduced, and figures from the Banks Insurance Fund show that the savings banks had a total result of about 15 billion. kr after tax in 2017, approximately the same as the previous year. At the same time, increased use of card readings, self-serviced barriers, and not least online banking and apps, contributes to the fact that the need for bank employees is no longer as great. I believe that the decrease in the number of employees must be more due to technological developments than current financial taxes. A little about history: It should be said that it was with the support of the Workers' Party that today's financial tax design was introduced in 2017. So to the Center Party, which first of all has been to cut off the elevated tax element on wages for many years. In that case, it may not be longer than from 2017. Second, yes, the centre party enters its alternative budget in order to remove the pay element of the financial tax. That's right. Then you take out 1.8 billion. kr i lost. But they also add 5 pst. in taxes on profits. So they're increasing corporate tax not just by 2 pst, but by 7 pst. Then they take in 3 billion. kr, far above what is lost by removing the tax element of wages. What the Centre Party wants is not a proven neutral change. In that case, today's debate must show that the Centre Party has agreed to a loss because they were not allowed to tax the financial industry as much as they wanted. Or is it so that the center party has now gone away from its previous line and will find a discovery of over 1.1 billion. kr in the next state budget, which they will present as their alternative to the autumn? What the government has been up to before: adding increased taxes on profits has huge problematic aspects. That's because it also has the Central Party's primary proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1048	To the rapporteur's final statement: The proceeds contained in the Central Party's 2018 Alternative State Budget are exactly the same proceeds as those indicated by the government in the 2014 Tax Communication, when one made a request that one should have a tax on financial services. It is far from the tax loss calculated from the fact that the financial industry is not subject to VAT. That tax loss is now estimated at over 9 billion. kr, but the proceeds contained in our alternative budget, of 3 billion. kr, is exactly the same as the government accepted in its tax return and was followed up in the tax settlement in 2015. The reason why I signed up for the rapporteur's statement is also that I notice that there is uncertainty about whether the additional employer's fee element is actually being removed. I would ask the case rapporteur to clarify what is really his opinion when he says that one here has to evaluate the model that a sketcher is, whether it is better than the existing solution. Does this mean that the rapporteur does not support the wording contained in the draft decision? The proposal for a decision explicitly states: ‘The government is asked to return to the Stortning in its own right, at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2020, with proposals for a revenue-neutral conversion of the financial tax and the removal of an increased employer’s tax.’; It's a very clear order for the government. I fully agree with the rapporteur that the new model must, of course, be better than today's, that it must work better with regard to securing jobs throughout the country, and that one must ensure that one does not have free passengers, such as foreign actors. It is the responsibility of the government to provide a model that takes care of it, but the order from a total accumulation, and as we say from an overall committee, is that the additional employer's fee should be removed. It's incredibly important that there's no ambiguity around it, so the industry knows what it has to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1062	I just want to follow up what was said by the last representative here, because I was most likely concerned about what the case spokesperson said in his post. I don't know if the cat was dropped out of the bag, or if it was just a delay. There were, of course, reading proposals for decisions. I'm going to do it -- once again -- because I can't understand how it can be misunderstood, what we've been about. I would also like to remind you that the original proposal is at the back of four games, which together would have multiples in Stortinget. The additional surcharge on the employer’s fee shall be abolished. It is quite explicit, and I would like to re-read ‘the higher employer’s fee will be removed’. It is not possible to misunderstand that phrase.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1067	I can reassure the Chamber, there is no doubt that I am behind the position of an overall committee. There will be a proposal in 2020, where the salary element expires. But then we say at the same time that it is important that the Storting has the widest possible decision-making basis when we make that change, because here we are walking in some unknown waters – and that was the point of what I said.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1075	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1091	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to replies from members of the Government and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1100	Since the proposals for representatives have several cross-cutting points, the Committee has chosen to examine them together. Let me first thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter, despite the fact that the members of the Committee do not share a similar view on solutions or on how the proposals are to be dealt with. With regard to the first proposal, which could perhaps most easily have been referred to as an increased sugar levy, the majority – consisting of government parties and the Christian People's Party – are clear that all taxes levied must be simple and transparent and without unnecessary bureaucracy for the state or industry. The tax increase is the result of the budget negotiations in autumn 2017. Government parties agree that the increase in fees has several undesirable consequences. I even belong to those who believe that the fee is unfortunate and want changes. At the same time, major changes in adopted budgets must be taken into account in the ordinary budgetary procedures. It is also true that even though the Progress Party and I both want and are ready to remove the increase, we are one of four parties that have entered into a budgetary settlement, and we intend to be loyal to the agreement throughout the financial year. The minority in the Committee suggests that the fees should be changed to increase the levy on unhealthy products, while lower charges should be imposed on healthy products. It sounds like a proposal to reinforce the debate on what is healthier and less healthy, and which additives are to be considered healthier than others. The proposal was also assessed under the red-green in 2012, but it was then concluded that it would be more difficult to practise and increase bureaucracy. The proposal was therefore rejected by the government of Stoltenberg II. The proposal on VAT exemptions for imports of goods below NOK 350 has been debated over time and the majority of the Committee asks the government to remove the exemption, at the latest by the 2019 government budget, to be submitted to the Stortinget. The majority here is all of the parties except the government parties. The so-called 350-kroner limit is a result of the budget negotiations in the autumn of 2015 and was an important victory for the Progress Party in particular. The original proposal was an even higher amount, but we accepted the agreement of NOK 350 and had probably expected all the parties that were behind the agreement to be able to deal with it for more than a few years. Oslo Economics is now in the final phase of assessing the socio-economic impact of removing the 350-kronor limit, and although the final report is expected only at the end of this week, the preliminary estimates show that for the state budget and for employment, the negative effects will be significant by removing the exemption. But in this round the majority has said their own, and with that I refer to the committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1117	After all, these two representative proposals stem from the situation created by the third tax discovery of this government and the cooperation parties in order to bring revenue into line with expenditure in the preparation of budgetary agreements. At first it was the bag charge that had to be put in the drawer, so it was the airstation fee, which unfortunately did not end up in the drawer. So this time it is the sugar and product tax on drinks that should have a strong jump. A couple of billions were needed to cover the additional costs that budgetary settlements tend to bring with them. The Labour Party proposed to remove this loophole with the 350-kroner limit in its alternative budget last autumn, so the proposal was on the table, and it could be selected in the negotiations and removed a gaping loophole in the charging system. That would mean positive things for the Norwegian food industry, but that was what you saw away from. It's a little strange, because there's something finance ministers tend to hunt for, it's tax and tax holes. If you close these, maybe there's a basis for putting the bets down. But here there is no doubt that this dirt hole, in combination with the price jump on snort and shower, has helped to run the border trade online. Now between 16 and 20 tons of nacelles and drinks are sent across the border every day, according to Works. As stated in the suspension, the Workers' Party will support the proposals for charges that can contribute to the strengthening of public health, the lifting of the 350-kroner limit for duty-free imports and the provision of more knowledge of border trade. Of course, we also support the attitude to ask the government to investigate the removal of the tax exemption for items from abroad with a value of less than 350 kroner and to return to Stortinget at the latest in connection with the 2019 government budget. Something earlier than that might be hard to imagine. Then we hope that this request will be met when the state budget is presented in October. It doesn't matter if it also involves a proposal to remove this dirt hole. I think the government may need those revenues to get the budget negotiations in port this fall. Hopefully, the time for new creative fees is over. With this I address the proposals in which the Workers' Party stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1128	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1133	It is a pleasure to see that unemployment in this country is falling, growth is increasing, and new jobs are being created. For the right, it is important to facilitate more value creation, and therefore, the government has now reduced the overall tax burden by 24 billion. kr and reduced form field for enterprises and business by over 10 billion. kr. At the same time, there has been over time a pressure from several opposition parties on a massive increase in the levy on sugar-containing foods, which would be imposed on VAT. The right-hand desire was primarily not to increase the levy, but, as part of the budgetary agreement, a slightly better solution was found to finance important investments – more knowledge in school, safer roads, enhanced defence and removal of machine taxes. We're going to take responsibility and recognise the challenges with today's solution. It is important to monitor developments in border trade and limit trade leakage. The Government and the Christian People's Party agree to investigate a reduction in excise duty on alcoholic beverages, with differentiation from sugar content. We remove the machine tax, which means that manufacturers are getting more predictability about what they are taxing. We show the willingness to find better solutions for business. For the government, it is important to create a simpler everyday life for ordinary people, and the 350-kroner limit is for many a valued consumer good. I'd say it's irresponsible of the Workers' Party and more here in the Chamber to want to remove it with a pen stroke. At the same time, I record that a majority wants to have this clarified, and I am sure that the government will add up to a fair and balanced debate on the matter. I have a great deal of understanding of the industries covered by the charges and the pressure from border trade. That is why we need to work together to find good solutions for more jobs in Norway. What I have less understanding of is how individual parties in the opposition turn their heads after the wind and suddenly have forgotten their alternative budgets with increased taxes and taxes for businesses and people most. In the Right, we will look forward to important and good discussions with our partners on this in the future, and we promise to continue working for companies and people to receive less taxes and create more.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1146	It is very sad that the majority is not willing to take responsibility – through the decisions that have been taken, when you see the consequences of them – and be willing to make changes. That is precisely why you have a revised budget. That is also why we have promoted our proposal in this matter, because this has consequences that make it necessary to make changes. There was a shock-carded increase in the levy on sugar and chocolate products and in the levy on non-alcoholic beverages in the budget in the fall — which came in a late night, without investigation, without the industry being informed — and the industry has now gone so far as to put on ice the cooperation it had on public health work and reduced sugar consumption. I thought that when a unanimous national meeting in the Progress Party described the consequences of the decisions taken before Christmas – that they have contributed to increased border trade and job losses, and that they hit low-income families particularly hard – there was also a willingness in the Progress Party to implement changes. But in a matter where the Progress Party has both the case rapporteur and the responsible Council of State, nothing is happening. The decision of the Progress Party to reduce the levy once again has become a decision in the revised national budget that one should investigate and look at parts of the one charge. This poses major challenges for business. One has experienced redundancies, including: in Telemark Source Water, which has cancelled half of the workstock, and one has seen redundancies at the Whale Chocolate Factory. Investments in the hundreds of millions are invested on ice, and traditional companies like Oskar Sylte and Roma at Lillestrøm fear that what is now happening may be the hook on the door for the future. It is very remarkable that no one is willing to do anything about the 350-kroner limit, where one now also sees that there is an escalating online trade internationally, which the Ministry of Finance has until recently done its best to try to minimize, but which the Minister of Finance acknowledges in response to me last week. Net trade from abroad in 2017 was 62 billion. kr, an increase of 10 pst. from the previous year, and the number of transactions was 130 million, an increase of over 25 pst. from the previous year. Changes are urgent. Of course, changes can be made during the year and in the revised national budget when they are needed. The previously mentioned bag tax was never introduced, precisely because it was decided in the revised national budget. I think it's a pity that the majority in this room are not willing to take the consequences of what you've done, and do an emergency brake. I would like to address the suggestions that the Central Party is part of in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1163	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1168	First I want to say I'm glad that it seems to gather a majority around the proposal of the Christian People's Party to uncover the removal of the 350-kroner limit. For the Christian People's Party, this is not a proposal that comes as a result of increased sugar levy, it is a consequence that online trade has increased sharply in recent years. When this limit, or a lower limit, was introduced, it was a completely different reality than it is today. And as previous speakers have referred to, there is a huge online trade. There is a lot of positive in it, but it also makes an undermining Norwegian companies and Norwegian jobs by the fact that there is such a clear loophole in the legislation. What we want is an investigation that shows different models of how to remove it, and how to do it in a way that is easy for consumers to deal with. I have no problem understanding that for some consumers it is very good to have an exception where you do not have to pay fees and fees – of course. It would have been nice if one at all Statoil stations, or Circle K, as they are now called, could fill petrol without fees, but it would have been a huge discrimination against other gas stations. Yes, there is some simplification in the fact that there are many packages that need to be customsed, but as I said earlier today: This is nothing special for Norway. On the contrary, in the EU there is VAT from the first dollar within the Union and they have decided that the limit of EUR 22 applicable to third countries should be removed by 2021. This is not done because one has to be bad for the consumer, one does it, of course, because there is a huge commercial leakage, there are own workplaces that are at risk, and that is discrimination. That is why I just want to challenge the Minister of Finance, because I expect the Ministry of Finance not only to sit and look at what is happening in the European Union and do not care about it, but also to take a position on that legislation and look at how a person wants to meet it when these changes come. What is positive about the work being done is that one sees that the large aspects of networks that sell goods also develop their own models, making it easy for EU countries when they introduce the borders. One knows that Sweden has already introduced VAT from the first crown, also for third countries. I guess that happened from March 1st. There are some experiences that have been described in a negative way earlier today. I'm glad the Stortinge is now making the decision. I know there's a work going on. I have a hope that when the state budget comes, there will be a good basis for decision making, and hopefully it will be in a way that makes it easy for the consumer, so that one pays VAT, that one finds a solution so that a large fee is free.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1187	No customs duty, value added or excise duty shall be payable today on consignments of goods from abroad with a value of less than NOK 350. Freight and insurance costs are included in the value of goods. The exemption does not apply to alcohol or tobacco products. I am well aware of the challenges that exist with today's limit. However, if the limit is removed, more consumers than at present will be charged a fee from the shipping companies. It will make small consignments of goods disproportionately expensive, and hinder trade from foreign online shops. Imports of goods with a value of less than DKK 350 may amount to around 40 million consignments per year. This illustrates some of the challenges of removing the current tax-free limit. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee on Finance wants to investigate the removal of the tax exemption for such items, and of course I will deal with what the Stortinget decides. Then go to the fees. It's generally accepted that price affects people's behaviour. Typical examples are excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. These charges help to increase the price and reduce the consumption of such goods. Compared to alcohol and tobacco, there are several factors that contribute to the more demanding design of safe and accurate excise duties on unhealthy food. It is not always clear which products are healthy or which are unhealthy. Many blends consist of both healthy and unhealthy ingredients. In addition, there is usually an over-consumption of unhealthy goods that is a problem, not that of a normal diet. Furthermore, the extent to which a change in charges actually results in consumer prices is uncertain. Overall, I therefore believe that we should not have too much faith in what fees can do in the food sector. At last, every one of us has to take responsibility for what we eat. In the case of VAT, there is a general charge on the consumption of goods and services. VAT is levied at all stages of the chain. If the VAT rates on food are differentiated according to health, many thousands of traders have to decide whether the food is healthy or not. The value added tax is therefore not suitable for special purposes, whether diet or other purposes. In addition, reduced rates or exemptions for certain products may give rise to infective effects because other sectors or good purposes would like similar schemes. It will lower VAT as a state financial carrier. Good diet is important for public health. Therefore, the government is initially in favour of assessing changes that may have an impact on the diet. However, it is important that the changes work as intended, are possible to control and do not have high administrative costs for the tax rate or the taxable persons.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1204	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1210	In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that the winding-up of the 350-kroner exemption requires thorough investigations and that it is not realistic to establish a simplified customs clearance in 2019. ‘I would, however, like to work to find good solutions in this area that balance the different considerations’, writes the Council of State. In the decision that will be taken today – it is a unanimous committee that is behind it – we ask the government to investigate the removal of the tax exemption and return to the state budget for 2019. Now the council said she would deal with it. Does this mean that the letter to the Committee has put itself on the line of warning against the decision we are about to take, or can we expect a good investigation into the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1217	I have informed the Committee on Many Challenges related to both introducing, postponing and abolishing different charges, but at the same time I am dealing with the decisions taken by the Stortinge. Therefore, as I said in my post, I will come back to this, in line with the Storting order.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1222	I noticed that the Council of State in its statement stressed that one should not have too much faith that it is so easy to change the arrangements for the fees, and that it could have a public health effect. Then it's interesting that it's exactly what the majority chooses to use in the revised national budget. A wish to investigate the device on the one fee that one had a massive increase before Christmas. Does the Council really see that there will be no changes to the system of charges, and that the fees will be kept at the level at which they are today, a level which the National Assembly of the Progress Party has said will result in increased border trade and job losses in Norway, and which affects low-income families particularly hard?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1227	These are debates we've had countless times in Stortinget. I would like to remind you that the effects of the government's tax policy are that we have reduced the total taxes and charges by over 20 billion. kr. And it's going well in the Norwegian economy for the time being. Employment is rising, unemployment is low. In many sectors, labour supply is difficult to obtain, and growth has increased. I think we have to take that as a starting point. Regarding the question from the representative, Gülsvik: The story asks me today to investigate this, and I will do so. Then I have to be allowed to do it before I can come back with the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1234	It is good that the Council of State confirms that an investigation on the 350-kroner limit will come. After all, it is a completely meaningless system that has been set up, where those who go shopping at their local store and contribute to jobs in Norway are getting increased fees, while those who go to Post in Store in the same store can pick up goods sent from abroad completely free of charge and without customs duties. What would the State Council say to all pensioners who do not have a computer and the ability to shop online from abroad but who are constantly getting increased fees in their local store? What is the message? Will one still have to live with ever-increasing taxes in Norway or have an ambition to make a change?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1241	There are still new arguments from the representative of Gülsvik. The whole point of this limit is that it's consumer friendly. I have recognised in many debates in Stortinget that there are different concerns about each other, which, of course, creates unintended effects for some actors in the business community. At the same time, it is beyond doubt that this is an advantage for consumers. More and more consumers are gaining the competence to acquire goods online, and so is the large group of pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1250	I thought the Council of State's view was that the VAT system was an important, general basis in which one should avoid holes in. The 350-kroner limit is not just a hole, it is now a heavy bar door that leads to increased trade from abroad for those who control online shopping. Many of us do, but there are also large groups in the Norwegian community that don't master being online, and that may not have computers at all. What is the message of the Council of State to them? Should they have to live with increased taxes because some consumers are still trading online from abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1255	All taxpayers and pensioners in Norway have received tax relief under this government. This means that the purchasing power of the vast majority of groups has increased as a result of reducing taxes and taxes. I now notice that the representative, Gülsvik, is calling for VAT as a general system, and then I expect that there will be no proposals for further erosion of the VAT system – which is often proposed – on new rates, lower rates, etc. This is a major and important and fundamental discussion, which the government through the Jeløya platform has also announced that we are going to review – simply because the VAT base is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1262	The Minister of Finance himself had different concerns, and she sees the need to balance the consumer-friendly with the business-related issues – without that being specified – at least with the challenges of commercial leakage. So, as I pointed out in my post, there is VAT from the first penny within the EU, while there is a limit of EUR 22 to third countries, which has been adopted by 2021. This means that there are very many countries operating with the legislation that the majority today wants to be investigated. Can the Minister of Finance say anything more about the experience that has been gained from there that would make this very difficult to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1269	What I can say is that we naturally follow closely the developments within the EU in this area, but Norway is, as you know, not a member of the EU, and the area of taxation is not part of the agreement either. We have to find our way of solving these things, even in terms of commercial leakage. But I want to remind you that there are many reasons why we have border trade. It's not primarily the individual charges we're discussing, it's probably so much customs protection and other things that help people cross the border and buy meat and other food. This is not the challenge of the Christian People's Party, but the Central Party, which later, as they are concerned about getting something done about the border trade, but at the same time is totally opposed to doing something about what might be the biggest driver of the border trade, namely customs protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1276	The Christian People's Party may not want to do anything about customs protection either, but that was probably not the point of the Minister of Finance. But I agree that there are other drivers that make the border trade have increased. It was a pleasure to see that there was actually a decline in 2018, although there are uncertain figures and one has to wait to draw the conclusions. But what I might think is more symbolic in the entire debate around the 350-kroner limit, is what the Council of State said, that there are exceptions in the rule related to tobacco and alcohol. In the case of products subject to excise duty in Norway or to major challenges, such as alcohol, tobacco and sugar, can the Council of State give me a reason why she believes it should be possible to order sugar, candy and cane from Sweden without having to pay taxes? I can understand that if there are any products from abroad that you cannot get in Norway, but most of them are well covered in Norwegian shops as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1284	The short answer to that is that now we are going to investigate this and come back to Stortinget with an adequate answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1289	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1296	Three years ago, the Solberg government proposed that the tax-free trade limit be 500 kroner. That matter they lost in negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Storting. That was a compromise of 350 kroner. The 500-krona limit was not the result of a poorly investigated tax proposal in Stortinget. There was a proposal in the State budget – carefully assessed in the Ministry of Finance, lost in the Stortinget. We hear neither the Progress Party nor the Right talk a lot about that proposal today, and they were warned then that now by the same people who are asking for the exemption to be removed. As I said in my previous post, both the NHO and the Works are asking for the 350-kroner limit to be removed. The trade unions do the same thing. The entry Norway recalled in 2015 that shipments below 300 grams from China and other developing countries have to be distributed in Norway for DKK 8 under an old UN agreement. Online shops in Norway pay much more in postage. The number of packages, especially from China, is increasing rapidly. Every day, 365 days a year, an average of 41,000 packages come from China – with planes. The environmental impact is very large compared with whether the same goods had been sent with a container on board a boat. The Customs Department says that several cheats with the limit of money to fall below the 350-kroner limit, and they say that they make a lot of seizures of illicit doping drugs and drugs. In addition, many of the products lack information about additives and toxins, which we are usually concerned with, and whether the products are made in factories with child labour or in other unethical ways, we are also not told about. In the first case we discussed today, we propose to remove the tax exemption through a change in the law. Unfortunately, that proposal does not seem to have a majority. But we are concerned that taxes that are health-friendly should be used only if they are accurate, so in the revised national budget that we are discussing on Friday, we have a proposal asking the government to review the impact of the product and sugar levy on the food industry, consumer behaviour, health, trade, investment and innovation. I want to invite all parties to support it. We then have to go through the charging system in a precise way. So I would like to stress that when we support the proposal promoted by a majority here today, we have a expectation that it will suffer a different fate than many of the investigation proposals that are not investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1309	If you go to the website garrigknark.no, you can get a very nice description of how you can get both a shower and a candy for the Saturday shoe easily even if you can't cross the border with Sweden. It is also very clear how one must be careful not to exceed the limit of 350 kroner, but fortunately, most candy shops help and give a message when the limit is reached. In fact, this is a business policy issue. Both NHO and LO are positive for removal of the border and therefore also support an investigation. The free 350-kroner limit on external online trade contributes to the loss of both value creation and jobs. There is something we have especially seen after the sugar charge came, which has given some quite absurd results when it comes to the trade of both shower and candy. For the Workers' Party, it is important to remove subsidies on foreign online commerce because it provides Norwegian business today with a competitive disadvantage. If you remove the limit, yes, you also ensure that Norwegian and foreign shops compete on equal terms. I have to say that it is interesting to hear some of the reasons that have been given here today. The Minister of Finance talks about this being an advantage for consumers. Yes, you can ask yourself what people, for example. will go on demonstration trains for. Is it in order to avoid paying a charge on shower and candy when buying less than 350 kroner? Or is it e.g. for local value creation in local enterprises? I don't think Norwegian companies are afraid of competition, but it must be on equal terms. There is no need for Norway to subsidise foreign enterprises. For the Workers' Party, it is important to strengthen Norwegian jobs and Norwegian business, so we believe that we are doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1322	Here we just heard the Council of State present the solution to how one should reduce border trade. Among other things, the Council of State said that one would do something about customs protection. So the Council of State and the government's view on how to reduce trade at the border with Sweden is that one should open up free imports from all over the world? This will not help to strengthen Norwegian interests and jobs. On the contrary, it will escalate the problem, it will help to increase imports from other countries and the loss of Norwegian jobs at a higher rate than today. The food industry is the largest mainland industry we have, and it is particularly important to take care of all the jobs and value creation that it contributes to. To what is involved in meat, there is a product that many people are dealing with in Sweden: Yes, that is right, but who has helped to reduce the fees on food in Norway? It was the Center Party that fought through the fact that one should have reduced VAT on food in Norway, it was not the Progress Party that did. It is important to have a comprehensive and good policy to ensure Norwegian jobs and Norwegian interests. Of course, it is not about people not having the opportunity to shop in Sweden or shop online. Of course, on the basis of their free choice, people should have the opportunity to do so. It is about not subsidising foreign actors and doing things that lead to problems for Norwegian actors. And the $350 limit is a completely unfair arrangement. It was very well described by the representative Aasrud about the consequences of all imports from China today below the 350-kroner limit. But that also applies to imports from our neighbourhood. Maxgodis — candy — thus targeting online trade to Norway, passed last month’s last year’s turnover. So in the first five months of 2018 they had higher turnover than they had in the whole of 2017. It is about the shock-carded increase in the sugar and chocolate product charges in combination with the continuation of the 350-kroner limit. Therefore, it is incredibly important — and urgent — to do something about customs clearance. It is fully possible to find solutions, as other countries have done. If the problem is that there are too high fees, it is of course possible to go in and regulate it. It's about political will. At least I'm glad that the majority in this room now says clearly to the government that one should investigate a removal of that limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1331	After hearing the many and strange statements that have come from both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party in the last six months, it can almost be said that they were opposed to an increased charge for sugar. So they're not. The centre party has repeatedly called for an increase in the levy on candy and cheese, and not later than six months ago, the Workers' Party proposed a close doubling of VAT on the same products. Everyone understands that for the consumer it does not matter whether the price increase is due to increased sugar levy or increased VAT. The increased price is the increased price, and then the background means little. When the Central Party proposes that the government reverse the increase in sugar and chocolate levies, people should note that they will at the same time oblige the government to make new proposals for increased charges. As I read the proposal of the Centre Party, it just as often means an even higher charge on products containing sugar. In this way, it could have been good to know whether the Central Party believes that the country's income from the sugar and chocolate levy should be lower, higher or at exactly the same level as today. For several months we have had a press that has given these batches an uncritical and free slot, without asking about the impact on the options. Similarly, we feel that only the negative sides at the 350-kroner limit are drawn forward, while the truth is that much of what's taken below this limit is small goods for a few dimes or crown pieces. Then there are no kroner for VAT, which is the biggest problem for consumers, but that one is charged a charge of 160 kroner and up for declaration or storage. The alternative to shopping online is not necessarily to buy it in a Norwegian store, but that the customer only leaves to buy the extra mobile cover for 20 kroner. I agree with the principle of non-discrimination between Norwegian and foreign traders, but this should not be done in a way that almost deprives Norwegian citizens of the opportunity to shop small goods on the Internet, as it may seem like the majority of Stortinget here would. The Progress Party will continue to be the consumer's spokesman and work to enable Norwegian citizens to continue shopping on the net and to avoid high charges for goods below NOK 350 even in the course of the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1342	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1347	To the rapporteur’s observations: In the revised national budget, the majority does not propose to reduce the fees. One suggests an investigation. The centre party agrees that one should investigate, but we also propose that the fees should be reduced. Unfortunately, that proposal is against the Progress Party. Well, it's not just some small amounts and some small transactions that happen. As the finance minister himself answered questions from me last week, in 2017, there were almost 130 million transactions in foreign online trade at a total value of almost 62 billion. kr. Work has estimated that there is a loss of 6000 jobs due to the 350-kroner limit. It is incredibly important to ensure Norwegian interests and jobs that one reduces the charges in Norway and eliminates the subsidisation of foreign operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1354	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1370	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes after each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to replies from members of the Government and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1379	I would first of all like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation for a busy time. This is a proposal which, it is said, is based on an intention that I believe is shared by everyone in the committee. Those who are disabled, who have residual working capacity and who want to work, should not experience that there is something in the disability that prevents them from taking up work, or that makes the transition unnecessarily complicated. The background here is the impending reform that came into force in 2015, which contains several changes to make it easier to combine work and social security whenever possible. Thus, the reform followed changes in the system of curtailment of income and taxation of disability benefit equal to employee income. This change entailed significant simplification. For this reason, a majority of the Committee also believes that a job tax deduction would mean a step away from such simplification. Own tax rules for individual groups should generally be cautious about introducing, and it is also unclear what the consequences of thresholds and transitions such a proposal might entail. The Committee stands united in insisting that the proposal is not adopted. For our part, we in SV are concerned about the negative consequences of the conversion from disability benefit to gross wages, for example. people have experienced losing important housing support as a result of an increase in gross income. I have met several of them, and there is no doubt that it has hit some hard. Here I would really like to refer to the proposal that we are making to promote in the context of the review of the revised national budget, to monitor the actual living conditions of the disabled before and after the default reform. When it comes to ensuring that it is organised to work with residual working capacity, SV believes that it is more appropriate and targeted to increase the amount of free time for disability and to look at how the curtailment rules in today’s disability benefits work, as we also suggest in the setting. This is something I also see that the proposers include in their proposal. We have put forward a loose proposal on this matter, which reads: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to increase the amount of the non-recovery in the new Member States’. The Progress Party and the SV have, despite a great political distance, found themselves together in some important issues. The proposal we are promoting today has a wording that we find in the programme of the Progress Party, and we therefore hope it can be a compromise that we can agree on in this matter. With that I take up the suggestions SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1401	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1406	In 2011, a mass of misreforms were adopted. The goal was to secure income for those who are 100 pst. and to improve the ability of workers to take part in their professional life. Reform was not austerity reform. In fact, the new system would cost society something more at one end because we're expecting to get back to the other end, by getting more people to work. The Labour Party will have a welfare society that provides more opportunities to contribute to its knowledge and capabilities. Those who can only work for periods must be able to do so. We know that many people want the ability to work a little bit. The Labour Party fully shares the proposalers' desire to get more people to participate in the labour market when it allows, but has no faith that passive tax deductions are the best way to achieve this goal. There are hardly a lot of people, at all costs they don't have the full benefits of disability, who may think of increasing the amount of work provided with a special job tax deduction. Many have extensive health problems, which is why they have been granted complete disability benefit. It has long been a cross-political objective to harmonise tax rules on disability benefits and other benefits with rules for wage earners. This is one of the pillars of the unpreforming reform and another important argument that we do not support the proposal for a job tax deduction because it leads us back to the time when it was our own rules of disability. There will be a step back when it comes to simplification, with uncertain effects and consequences. I'm overestimated that both the SV and the Christian People's Party have hearts for them. My appeal to the proposers is, therefore, to remove this proposal with uncertain effect and instead to use the government's impact to address two important issues: the government's ever-increasing fees which worsen the situation of the low-income groups, and the unintended consequences of the unpre-reform, where both debt and misdemeanors in need of bus pay, came out worse than the Storting had seen. Such an overview of unintended consequences should be developed, and accidental consequences and effects should be corrected. With this in mind, the Workers' Party will not support the SV's proposal which has been distributed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1419	Together with the rest of the committee, I and the right-wing proposers share the desire to get more people into the labour market. Many disabled people with residual skills should have contributed much more to their ability to work. It's good for our society, and it's good for the individuals who receive disability benefits. It is an important value in life to contribute to the community and not least to get the freedom it gives to earn its own money. There's a lot of different reasons why some people get sick, and a lot of people in this group have skills and resources that society needs. Nevertheless, it is a challenge to make more people use their residual working capacity. This is why the government has set up an employment committee to look at, among its specific tasks, how we can increase participation in employment among people with disabilities, reduced productivity or who cannot be in a full-time job. This sample shall assess measures to achieve higher employment in this group, in a broadly anchored work. In particular, it is important to involve the social partners in such an effort, as it is often the case that the solution lies in order to increase the number of workers in the labour force. We need more employers who take on part-time employment for people with a slightly different form of illness and challenge than for all other employees. It is not always as simple, but schemes such as wage subsidies are, in my opinion, a more accurate scheme than a general job tax deduction for an entire group. This is because compensation of employees relieves the employer's compensation of employees by employing someone who may not be able to meet on a regular basis every day. This supports the general view that the tax system is initially a poor tool for providing targeted support to individual groups. In that case, special grant schemes that go directly to the one concerned, as mentioned above, are better. In the Jeleia Declaration, the government is pointing out that the social security and tax system will be set up in such a way that it stimulates more people into work. Furthermore, we will continue to lower the tax on income, so that it always pays to work, even for them with the lowest income. As the setting shows, there is a broad consensus in the Committee that a separate job tax deduction for disabled people is not the way to go. The introduction of such a deduction for a single group would raise questions as to why not other individual groups should also receive such a deduction. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party promises an important theme, and that they support the fact that the broad work of the Employment Committee is awaited in this area before considering this in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1430	I would like to thank the proposers for raising an important issue through their representative proposal. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for an important and good job in a busy time. It is incredibly important to focus on the debilitating situation, but also on the situation of other groups in the Norwegian society who experience the challenge of entering the labour market, and on what kind of measures we can contribute to, both to get more people into the labour market and to be able to contribute more to their working capacity. It's worrying numbers you see when you look at the employment rate in Norwegian society. From 2008 to 2017, the employment rate in the 20-74 age group fell from 74,8 p.m. to 69.9 pst. In one, the core group, aged 25–54 years, was also a significant decrease in employment — about 3.5 pst. for women and approx. 5 pst. for men. It's incredibly important that we have attention around this. These are very many in Norwegian society who, through some additional measures, could contribute more than they do today, and who could have a better income than they have today. It is also about the overall sustainability of Norwegian society in terms of how we will finance welfare in the future. This includes, among other things: their challenge of having weak groups out of work, including: in that one has also had an unregulated labour immigration, which one still has, and that one has in addition filled with subsidisation of foreign workers, which we have debated earlier today. The early reform provided for employee income to be taxed in the same way as disability benefits. The experience with the underdevelopment reform is important to make it work. The centre party does not believe that it makes sense to apply tax deductions to individual groups, as the proposal calls for. Then we have much more faith that someone rather looks at existing schemes, such as an increase in the amount of free money and that one also looks at the curtailment rules. Nevertheless, what makes sense in this context is to await the sample that has been cut down, the Employment Committee, and the proposals that it makes, and that one then makes concrete proposals and measures in its extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1443	High labour participation is among the most important to ensure a sustainable welfare society. Work also contributes to the balancing of differences. Having a job to go to is a good thing for the individual. It gives income, and it gives belonging to a community. Accidents have reduced working capacity due to illness or disability, but many have the opportunity to work. It is therefore important that the social security and tax system is designed to stimulate employment. Since the government joined, total taxes and taxes on people and businesses have been reduced by over 24 billion. kr., e.g. the marginal tax on wages and salaries is reduced. It has also made it more profitable for disabled people to work. The Jeløya platform shows that the government will make working more profitable, especially for people with low incomes, among others. by further reducing the tax on income. New disability benefit from popular protection was introduced from 2015. The disability benefit is now calculated as 66 pst. on a basis of calculation established on the basis of the average income of the three best of the five years before disability occurred. Persons with low or no earnings are guaranteed by a minimum annual performance. The new rules gave a higher level of disability before tax. At the same time, taxation was converted into compliance with the same rules as employee income. The new taxation was an important part of the reform. When wages and salaries are taxed equally, it is easier to get an overview of the economic consequences of transition from work to social security and from social security to work. The Code for the shortening of disability benefits against labour income weighs incentives into the disability scheme and incentivises out of the disability scheme. The desire to motivate failure to increase labour input could, in isolation, mean that the reduction rate would be lowered. However, it could provide stronger incentives for the defrosting scheme. In addition, it could undermine the objective of increasing the use of classified disability benefits. So as many in the committee express, I agree with the intention of the proposal to make it more profitable to work. At the same time, however, I am pleased that the Committee does not propose changes now. Possible changes to the legislation on disability can produce many effects – intentional and unintended – that draw in different directions. It is therefore important to have a good overview of the impact before any changes are adopted. The government has set up an employment committee. The selection has been specifically asked to consider possible measures to increase the participation of people with disabilities or reduced productivity or those who are unable to work full-time. It is wise to await the recommendations of this sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1458	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1463	One of the concerns of the Labour Party attached to this proposal by the Christian People's Party is that it goes contrary to what we perceive as a cross-political objective, simplification and harmonisation of tax rules. We're concerned that those who have disability benefits and other performances should have tax laws that are as similar as the employees have as possible. Does the Council agree that this proposal can lead to a more cumbersome transition from social security to work and can reverse current developments, which are moving towards more harmonised tax rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1468	Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1474	It was good to hear. The level of disability and its facilities is outside Siv Jensen's remit, but I believe that the Minister of Finance is also busy that it is possible to live a good and worthwhile life of ill-worked property. How do stas councils think that this is in line with the extensive tax increases of billions of dollars that have come since 2013 and that may be the low-wage less expensive of all?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1481	The last thing I don't agree with. If you look at the scheme of the reductions that the government has implemented, especially in the field of taxation, the low income that has benefited from it is very good, i.e. revenues below NOK 600 000. But I agree with the representative that it is important to be able to have a good basis for living a good life, a little independent of the situation in which you are. I think we took an important step when we carried out the under-pre-reform in order to facilitate equal taxation, precisely to facilitate the entry of more people. The employment committee should also look at other aspects of this, simply because there are many people who want to participate, who have different degrees of residual working capacity that we have to use. I think it's wasting resources not doing it. Then we have to look for how we can turn on the tools to get it done – in addition to what we have already done through the malformation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1486	Does the Council of State see that the tax increase is the most severe for those with a low wage?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1491	I am generally of the opinion that we should keep the tax pressure at the lowest possible level. I also agree that many charges seem fundamentally unsocial because they do not take into account the income they have. Therefore, it has been important for this government to make changes in many taxes and taxes — just to make it possible for people to be left with a little more of their own income. The main emphasis of charges that have been increased within a reduction in total taxes and charges of 24 billion. kr are environmental taxes, where we have taken into account a better pricing of emissions and a better pricing of pollution. I believe that is a healthy principle, which I also thought the Workers' Party agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1498	Last but not least, a unanimous national meeting in the Progress Party adopted an opinion on the adverse impact of the increase in fees, where it was said that the tax increases that have been carried out are particularly severe for low-income families. I assume that the Minister of Finance is still behind that description. That one looks, and as I took up in my post, concerns the reduced employment rate. The government often boasts of reduced unemployment at present. In its August 2017 report, the SSB writes: Eight years of decline in the employment rate: ‘So the unemployment loss was not primarily driven by the fact that more unemployed started to work, but by the fact that more people left the workforce.’ The good unemployment figures presented by the government are therefore not primarily good, seen with my eyes. The question then is: what kind of action does one have to do with the employment share in order to ensure the sustainability of our welfare society in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1510	I actually think that's a very important question. That is the main reason why the government has cut down the Employment Committee. Now we're going to be glad that the employment rate has risen somewhat lately, but too many people in Norway are out of the ordinary. If we can get a few more of them into work, it's good for each of them, and it's good for the Norwegian economy. This applies to people with disabilities, people with different diseases and migrants who are poorly integrated and who are not part of the working life. I think we need to work widely to see how we're going to do it. And as I said in a previous answer: the Feast Reform has contributed to doing something about some of the barriers, but we also have to look at how we can simplify these transitions even more, look at the different parts of the legislation that exist, to see if we can simplify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1521	One thing that has been seen in recent years is that the growth in employment has come through labour immigration and labour from abroad, while unfortunately there has been a negative trend for Norwegian workers. This is due, inter alia, to: a non-regulated labour migration through the EEA and different types of tax regimes that reinforce it through a tax subsidy on foreign workers, calculated at 50 million. kr by the government. The question from my point of view is: does the Council of State think it makes sense to regulate labour immigration from abroad, or does she think it should remain unregulated, as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1528	Firstly, I must once again refute the claim of so-called subsidisation of foreign workers. We discussed this matter earlier today, and it was primarily about cleaning up a code that contributed to many errors – also pointed out by the National Audit Office on repeated occasions. I believe we have found a good solution, which has also been in force in Sweden for many years. With regard to labour immigration, I think I would advise the representative Geelsvik to take a look at the statistics. In the context of the severe oil price drop in 2014, labour migration to Norway was greatly reduced. Many immigrant workers who worked in Norway travelled home. It is too early to say, but I believe that we need to solve the structural challenges in our own labour market by facilitating more people who can work, but who are not currently part of the Norwegian labour force, to do so. Then we have to do what we can to simplify the legislation and facilitate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1535	As I was also involved in my post, SV believes that a more targeted way to ensure that the rest of the work comes to work is to increase the amount of the free. The joy was great when we saw that the Progress Party has also addressed it in its programme. We propose this both in the proposal in the vote, as well as in an assessment of the curtailment rules, and also in a loose proposal that concentrates solely on increasing the amount of the free money. We have seen that the Christian People's Party, which has also made a proposal, is in charge of it, and the Central Party also mentions it. The question to the Minister of Finance is this: does she realise that the government will support the proposal, which is in line with the Progress Party programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1540	This is, of course, one of the jobs that the Employment Committee is going to be looking at. I think it would be wise for us now to allow them to complete their job. Then we'll get back to how we'll follow it up, later.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1546	That's interesting to hear. Then we will have to wait in suspense to see if that proposal comes from the government. Another question concerns the proposal made in the context of the revised national budget on Friday. Then we propose to carry out a survey of the actual living conditions of the disabled. The Employment Committee will look at employment, but we now see, both at a higher level and in the presence of individuals, that some of the changes made in the context of the reform are more severe than what was intended. My question is whether this is something the government can support.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1553	I believe it is important that we constantly get as up-to-date information as possible related to living conditions. Regular living conditions surveys are conducted in Norway just to provide us with the best possible information, including on different groups. I think we're going to follow up on this in different ways from the government, but now we have to let these samples do their job first. Then we'll come back to Stortinget with different suggestions later.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1558	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 6 and 7 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1589	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1598	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on this position, which shows that there is still a broad consensus on the guidelines for the management of the pension fund – and with good reason. Four years gave good returns, 13.7 pst. measured in the fund's currency basket, an increase of 977 billion. in Norwegian Krone, and at a market value of 8 848 billion. kr at the end of the year. There was a positive return on both bonds and property, but highest in shares. Last year, 13.2 p.m., the Fund also delivered well to a market value of 240 billion. kr. As the setting shows, there is a broad consensus on the broad lines of government of the State pension fund abroad, SPU. A Joint Committee supports the opening-up of the Fund to invest in non-listed renewable energy infrastructure and calls on the Government to present a concrete draft mandate for this in the next year’s Communication. There is some disagreement as to whether these investments should be within the environmental mandates, as the government itself suggests in the notification, or outside. This disagreement is really about the scope. If they are to be within the environmental mandates, which have already been exceeded, they must be substantially extended. Therefore, a minority has a proposal that when drawing up the mandate for these investments, the government also assesses whether they should be within the environmental mandate, or outside, as a new, own mandate. In any case, I think everyone agrees that the fund should also proceed step by step and gently. There is a great need and plans for investment in renewable energy. It is important for climate policy. Therefore, hopefully there are good investment opportunities here, which will expand the investment universe of the fund and provide stable and good returns. I stress that an overall committee points out that these investments should have the same transparency, risk and return requirements as other investments, but ensure that the return requirement is the result of this investment universe, none can be. Therefore, it has to happen gradually, as it was done when the fund entered unlisted property. The second area, where there is also a broad consensus, concerns the coal criteria. Eleven companies were excluded last year, ten of them on the basis of coal criteria, and six on the basis of observation, two of which on the basis of coal criteria. Nevertheless, we find companies with significant activity in coal in the fund's portfolio. To this end, a Joint Committee asks for an assessment of the adequacy of the current coal criteria in order to exclude companies with significant coal-related activities. This assessment we expect to get in next year's message. Another concern raised in the examination of the notification concerns investments in Saudi Arabia, triggered by an investment that the Fund also withdrew. An overall committee states that: ‘When the SPU reference index is extended to countries where there is a cause for concern about the human rights situation in general, it is important that the observation and extraction guidelines are reviewed and operationalised so that they are sufficiently robust in relation to the challenge in these markets.’» The government is expected to follow this up and comment on the outcome of the review next year’s notification. The management of our oil wealth has won international recognition. It has become a model for other countries to manage large revenues from natural resources so that they benefit the entire population and can also be a source of income for future generations. But we also set ourselves the goal of being a model for responsible management when this natural resource is relocated in capital markets. The administration shall be carried out in an ethically sound manner. The ethical guidelines raise clear expectations of the companies in which we invest, and now they are extended to cover the tax practices of the companies. That's good. Environmental, social and corporate governance considerations shall be an integral part of the management of both SPU and SPN. There are some key issues that are not resolved in this message, because the government wants more time for clarification. As regards the investment universe of government bonds and the future organisation of the fund – should the fund continue to be managed within the Bank of Norway, possibly with its own board, or outside? We look forward to the government's assessments of these questions on the basis of the Gedrem committee's investigation, if not before, so at least next year's notice. Finally, an overall committee asks the government to consider whether the Ethics Council can also act as an ethical council for the Swedish Social Security Fund, in line with the proposal in the Innst. 361 S for 2017-2018. I assume that the other parties themselves present the proposals they have made, and then I address the proposal on which the Labour Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1637	Then the representative Svein Roald Hansen mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1642	Thank you to the President-in-Office for reviewing the matter. On behalf of the Right, I would also like to join the comments of the Committee. I still need to spend my speaking time doing some general reflections, especially on the debate on the oil fund communication. There is sometimes a need to remind the parties at Stortinget – in particular some of them – that the oil fund is certainly not a source of desire to make a success of its own policy programme. In the debate on the management of the State pension fund abroad, it is often easy to fall for the temptation to deviate from the principles on which the success story is based. Since its creation, the main idea behind the administration has been that we should use the return on good policy purposes over the government budget, while the management of the fund's capital should be real saving, where the objective is the highest possible return within moderate risk. Political desires need to be funded through government budget appropriations, whether it is about fulfilling the Paris Agreement or reducing poverty in the world, two points where the government is already doing a good job. Although the highest rate of return is the main objective, we have decided that some things should not be invested in the fund. The criteria for such exclusion are either behavioural or product-based. This means that we are withdrawing from companies that are involved in serious environmental damage, gross corruption or human rights violations, to mention something. The exclusions are decided by the Bank of Norway, on the advice of the Ethics Council. At the same time, Norway's Bank also follows the companies in which we own shares, closely and impose a number of requirements to ensure the most responsible and sustainable management of ownership. Changes in the management of the fund — whether there have been criteria for exclusion, share ownership or property investment — have traditionally been based on broad policy decisions and thorough and professional processes. The governance of a fund owned by the people and our future generations should not be marked by haste and shortcuts. Some want us to do short process, get rid of companies that invest in oil and gas, and not wait for ongoing processes to assess the entire oil and gas sector. It seems to bear the mark of unnecessary impatience or political symbolism. When someone thinks it is important to rush into new markets instead of first reaping experiences, building stone for stone, it bears more emphasis on impatience on behalf of its own party program than necessarily on behalf of the people's money. In the same spirit, I would also like to mention the proposal from, among others, The Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party – which Stortinget voted on earlier this year – to start the process of withdrawing the fund from gaming companies, on the grounds that ownership of these companies threatens Norsk Tipping's gambling monopoly in Norway. It violates almost all the principles that I have already mentioned. I hope that the country's largest opposition party will not be tempted to participate in such proposals in the future. In particular, I would ask the Stortinget to examine these types of proposals in the context of the Fund Communication, not in part and in part, spread over various representative proposals in different committees. Finally, let me repeat that the fund is not a well of desire to meet the political programmes and objectives of parties and stakeholder organisations. The management of State pension funds abroad should be done through thorough and comprehensive treatment, the long-term return being the target.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1657	I would like to start by thanking the case manager for a good post and for a good cooperation on the fund. Before the debate started, I walked a little in the middle of the day and couldn't avoid noticing that both the Governor and the Director of the Oil Fund were surrounded by an entire school class on the outside. Whether their popularity came from having ice or telling about the oil fund, I shouldn't say, but it was a good picture of how important it is, what we're discussing, that this fund is not only for this generation, but also for future generations. It underlines the importance of the children who were out there and hopefully got an interesting school lesson, and reminds us that we should live on this income to ensure kindergartens, schools, elderly care and good services for the inhabitants of many generations. This debate on the annual report on the State pension fund discusses the basis for managing an important part of our common wealth. Long-term and good governance will enable the wealth to benefit both today’s and future generations. I shall not say that I am concerned that the word 'concern' has been used more than the word'return' so far in the debate, but I had hoped that the debate on the oil fund would have been more about reminding each other of what is the main objective, namely that we should have the highest possible return within a moderate risk. I feel that it is often in the shadow – both in the recordings we get, and in the political change of words, it is all other possible purposes that characterize the debate. But the main objective must be firm. If this fund is to be of benefit to future generations, we must remember that the main objective is to have the highest possible return on the capital we have. Because of my progress party that we should be careful to put too many different foreign policy, ideological and other desires into this debate, because there are things that can be resolved in other matters. In this case, we should have the best possible return. The returns have been very good in recent years. That's what we're getting listed in this message. We have had a return since 1998 of 4.2 pst, and in 2017 of 11.6 pst. This means that at the end of 2017, the market value is at a total of 8 484 billion. kr. It's a huge amount. The weakening of the dollar rate is about 1,000 of these billions. Of course, it's about the international purchasing power, but anyway, it's a huge amount that's standing here and making it possible for us to spend oil money on the state budget in a big month. When we look at the state budget, I think we're sometimes going to look away from these sums and look at how much less we had to guess if it wasn't for this good government and this good model, which means that we can spend a lot of these money on infrastructure, on education and on other important things in the annual government budgets. We also look at the costs of the fund, which is interesting. They are on notice 0.06 pst, which means that such a large fund is managed in an efficient and unbureaucratic way. It was experienced when we visited the London office and saw with our own eyes how the fund operated. Here's the focus on driving smart and efficient, yet we got the impression that this is a professional and big fund, which has offices where it's going to have offices, and which operate in a proper way. The representative Kapur did well for how important it is to see the big lines and figure things out in a proper way. Difor has a choice that the government should come back to some things, including: the Norwegian Bank Board of Governors to withdraw the Fund from the oil and gas sector. The government has chosen both to make its own assessments, to set up an expert selection and to request additional information from the bank. The government aims to return to Stortinget with its assessment in the autumn of 2018. It's a wise way to follow up on such a problem, with facts at the bottom, and not make hasty decisions. Similarly, one of the recommendations from the Gedrem selection is met by its own processes, and the Stortning will come back to those questions at a later time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1672	Through wise, forward-looking choices, we in Norway have been able to build up the oil fund we have today, to ensure that the community's resources have been used for the best of the community, and that one has built up capital that can also benefit future generations. It is particularly important that one has rejected proposals that have been about the privatisation of resources and about changing the principles that have underpinned the management. It is important that in this case, and in connection with the state pension fund abroad, we make wise, long-term choices – that we are responsible as politicians, but of course also that those who have been given the great responsibility of managing the large billions of wealth on behalf of the Norwegian community are conscious of their responsibility. The centre party is very concerned that one should continue the requirements of the fund and the principles attached to it and that the changes that one has to make should be well-founded, well-explored, knowledge-based and broadly anchored. It is important that the fund, as the people's property, is based on transparency, that one has a moderate risk in its operations, and that one continues to rely on the highest possible return within the limits given, which should apply. This fund, which is the property of the Norwegian people, is also important how we manage it, and that we manage it for the benefit of the development of society in Norway. There should be a good opportunity for a greater proportion of the Fund’s activity to take place in Norway and for a greater proportion of its management to take place in Norway. We have competitive wages in Norway, but we also have good skills, which could also have been further developed by moving a larger part of the government to Norway. That is why we are also promoting proposals to investigate it. It could help to strengthen the Norwegian financial industry, it could have important ring-effects for other industries, and we also believe it is important to contribute to governance by strengthening different environments in Norway. It would be a good continuation of the fund, which also marks a clearer anchoring and presence in Norway, which also gives the Norwegian people a greater understanding of the activity of the fund and the importance of the fund. To the representative of Njåstad, who spoke about the costs of the fund: the Central Party and I do not agree with the description given, that the costs and cost development of the fund are satisfactory. On the contrary, it is shown that Norway’s Bank will have an increase in money use from 2017 to 2018 of 11 p.m., that the costs of managing the oil fund are increasing steadily, and that the costs relative to the capital do not decrease, despite a significant increase in the fund’s capital. It is worrying and should focus more on the Fund’s activities. So some brief remarks about what's going on about unlisted infrastructure. The Centre Party shall take part in the Committee's comments to consider that the Fund should be able to enter into unlisted infrastructure within the environmental mandate. We are also involved in the formulation that one should be able to consider increasing the framework for environmental mandates. At the same time, we have clarified – and I would like several other parties to clarify the same – that if one cannot make a clear assumption that the same criteria that currently apply for transparency, risk and return in the fund will apply within unlisted infrastructure, one should not go into opening up unlisted infrastructure. It makes sense that someone takes careful steps forward and preserves the fund as the people's property with the requirements that are there in that way. With that, I would also like to address the proposals of which the Central Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1689	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1694	The management of the oil fund is largely a success story. With over 8 000 billion kr the oil fund has become part of the core wall of the Norwegian economy. Properly managed, the oil fund could contribute to the well-being and investment of many generations to come. Hopefully those who live in Norway in a hundred years will also enjoy this huge fund. We must have an eternity perspective in assessing how governance can be optimal. That's why it's fascinating to hear both the representative Kapur and the representative Njåstad here put up strawmen who they're happy to argue about, strawmen who don't have the roots of the real political opinions in this case. What we invest in has an obvious impact on what the world will look like in 10 or 78 years. In particular, this is true when we are faced with the closest existing challenges. If we invest in climate change today, it will affect the return of all investments in the long term, including the oil fund. That doesn't mean we can use the oil fund to solve the world's climate problems. There's a whole other way of doing it. But with its size and time horizon, the fund has to take into account how the investments they make affect the economy and the world in the long term. In addition, it is important and wise that investments take place within acceptable ethical frameworks. Now, when we debate the big business message about the oil fund and then we're going to discuss the financial market notification, there's a relatively new concept that's going on, climate risk. Climate risk is not about ethical assessments, but about the risk of losing money, and the oil fund, or rather the Bank of Norway, has basically come a long way in defining climate risk and identifying what action should be taken to minimise this risk. The question probably is how we politicians follow up or act as brake pads. As renewable energy takes over fossil energy, fossil energy will become an increasingly less attractive investment. Some have even pointed out that some investments in fossil energy may turn out to be worthless investments, so-called stranded assets. And this is no longer just a theoretical possibility. These are changes that are taking place today, and in this new reality, Norwegian policy is in danger far behind. Large investments such as those made in Norwegian oilfields make Norway vulnerable when the world is moving towards renewable energy. This will be reinforced by the fact that the oil fund is heavily invested in oil and gas abroad. Thus, a fall in the oil price will strike both domestically and in the oil fund. What now seems to be safe investments may be totally misguided investments tomorrow. Many of these risks are protected by the oil fund because the fund invests so widely. However, the management of the Fund needs to take into account the major developments, risks and opportunities that exist. And here comes climate risk. Within the framework set by the Stortinget for the oil fund, we are now concerned that it is no longer possible for the fund to take sufficient account of climate risk. From a long-term perspective, we now see a trend in which several international pension and investment funds go beyond State pension funds abroad to take into account how current investment affects economic growth in the long term. These include: reason for questioning whether it is such that only the companies are large enough, the fund must disregard the principles of responsible management. Therefore, SV is currently promoting a proposal to determine whether Norway’s Bank should be allowed to deviate more significantly from the reference index in order to manage climate risk and implement effective, responsible management of the fund. We also propose tightening up the ownership of the companies involved in coal. Here I must say I am surprised that the majority no longer goes, because despite major improvements in the Storting decision on the so-called coal criterion, we know that the oil fund is invested in companies that both build new coal power plants and extract considerable amounts of coal. There are investments that obviously both contribute to high greenhouse gas emissions and go against the intentions of the Paris Agreement. I am pleased that after much over and over, we have made one step further in opening up the oil fund to invest in unlisted infrastructure and renewable energy. These are investment opportunities with high growth potential, and we look forward to proposals for a mandate coming to the Stortinget next year. I'm addressing the suggestions that SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1713	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1718	The Christian People's Party believes the framework for SPU and SPN is good, both financially and ethically. At the same time, we should constantly seek to improve these frameworks further. As far as SPN is concerned, the Christian People's Party is pleased that an overall committee asks the government to consider our proposal for an Ethics Council for SPN. The Christian People's Party went in front of an Ethics Council for SPU, and now we're doing the same for SPN. Any extension of the mandate to the SPU Ethics Council to include SPN is a good solution in the view of the Christian People's Party. An ethical council could be a positive contribution to SPN’s work on responsible management, and it would be a positive signal internationally that Norway has the same monitoring of investments at home as outside. With regard to the SPU, it is positive that an overall committee asks the government to come back to the Storting with a proposal for a concrete mandate for investments in non-listed renewable energy infrastructure in the next year’s notification of the pension fund. We are also pleased with the tightening up or comments on coal in order to make the legislation work better. However, in the case of investments in unlisted infrastructure, the Christian People's Party will go further. As early as 2006, the Bank of Norway advised that the Fund should be able to invest in unlisted infrastructure. The bank has repeated this several times. In a letter to the Ministry of Finance, the Bank has underlined that the fund is «well suited to make such investments». It has been pointed out that increased elements of real estate such as property and infrastructure can help reduce uncertainty about the development of the fund’s international purchasing power. The possibility of investment in unlisted infrastructure also opens up to investments in unlisted renewable energy infrastructure and unlisted infrastructure in poor countries. The Christian People's Party does not take lightly objections to uncertainty and political and regulatory risks, not least in poor countries. However, the Bank of Norway takes this into account. The Bank itself proposes to move forward step by step, with small investments in developed countries with a high degree of initial security, in order to gain experience and build up skills. The Christian People's Party believes that this is the right way to go in the long term to move into emerging economies – often together with institutions such as the World Bank to reduce risk. Therefore, we propose that the government open up the possibility for SPU to invest in unlisted infrastructure, with small investments in developed countries with a high degree of security at first, in order to gain experience and build skills. Amnesty International’s note of 27 November 2017 shows that there may be significant fundamental human rights challenges related to investment in state-owned companies in closed, repressive countries. Therefore, the Christian People's Party proposes that the government evaluate the dimension of human rights in the ethical framework and its handling. We still believe that there is a need to make an in-depth assessment of the need to develop own ethical guidelines on the Fund's investment in government bonds, on the basis of which the criteria of transparency and accountability in the public budgetary processes of the issuer countries are based, and to assess the risks associated with illegitimate debt. That is why we are proposing this. The Christian People's Party also proposes to explore the basis for extracting SPU from alcohol companies. The reason is that alcohol, like tobacco, poses significant public health problems. There is also an increasing understanding of alcohol as a challenge in developing poor countries. Not least, many vulnerable children are affected by parental alcohol abuse. Many international alcohol producers are aggressively marketing, in particular targeting young people and new markets in poor countries. Finally, the Christian People's Party proposes to establish an investment programme within the SPU, with the same management requirements as other investments in the SPU, with the aim of investing in sustainable enterprises and projects in poor countries, and with the objective of a total investment framework of at least 20 billion. kr. I bring this up with the proposals the Christian People's Party has promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1742	The representative Kjell Ingolf Roppstad has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1747	Shock course, predictability and stable framework conditions are catchwords in Norwegian policy. It's fine and good. But how do we create a new and better world out of it? How are we going to support the course and stable framework conditions in the future to provide the solution when the world is changing – rapid change – and the climate problem is at full speed with us? Because there is not full predictability that is the source of inspiration for conversion, new inventions and new activity. It is rather that after repeatedly discussing in this room where and how the oil fund will be allowed to invest in the future, we are now able to collect a little bit. The Committee has agreed that we should ask the Ministry to return to Stortinget with a proposal for a mandate for investments in non-listed renewable energy infrastructure under the environmental mandate in one year's time. But the environmental mandate is only 75 billion. SEK of a fund of 8400 billion. kr. So we're going to invest some $10 billion of over 8,400 billion. kr in what is the energy sources of the future – what can help to save the world we live on, and which we hope will make it viable for our children and grandchildren. If we're going to be able to turn around from a bad course and get to a change, in line with the world around us, we have to dry up to be something more forward-looking. We must dry to invest in and for the future – do not put our heads in the sand and think that fossil energy is going to be the future gold mine for the next decades. Norway’s Bank wants to be allowed to invest in unlisted infrastructure. Many independent experts have recommended the same thing, but the government, by the Minister of Finance, has not wanted it. Norway’s Bank itself wants to withdraw SPU from the oil and gas sectors. The government is assessing this. I sincerely hope that it will listen to the Bank of Norway this time. There's not so much swing over opening up to invest under 1 pst. by the oil fund of the industry soon to take over from the fossil energy carriers. The new industry accounted for almost two thirds of all new net power supply in the world in 2016. Opening up investment in renewable infrastructure within the environmental mandate will be a first mouse step to allow our pension fund to invest in the energy system of the future. I hope in this room we can soon replace these mouse boots with real cruise boots and get some proper steps forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1762	State pension funds are our common savings funds. Few other countries with large natural resources have received what Norway has done with the construction of the Staten pension fund. The state's current revenues from oil and gas are entirely saved in the fund. The use over time shall follow the expected real return of the fund. This is how oil wealth benefits both today's generation and future generations. Savings resources shall be well managed so that we can achieve the highest rate of return within acceptable risk. The management of the funds shall be transparent, responsible, long-term and cost-effective. The investment strategy is based on spreading risks by owning a small share in a large number of companies and debt securities. It's a strategy that has served us well. Both the Bank of Norway and the Swedish Social Security Fund have delivered good results over time — both absolute and relative to the reference indices set by the Ministry of Finance. The Committee's setting indicates broad support for the broad lines of the strategy and the framework for the Fund. I'm glad. Wide opening up of the way the fund is managed facilitates good and long-term management. In particular, the broad political agreement on the Fund’s objectives is important: to achieve the highest return on acceptable risk. Only in this way can the Fund carry out its main task, which is to help finance the public sector in the future. The fund will secure our pensions, our health care and our care for the elderly. A central theme of this year’s Communication is the review of the management of the SPU by Norway’s Bank, including analyses and assessments of deviations from the reference index, costs and responsible management. I am pleased that a broad political majority supports the government's assessment in this area. In this year’s notification, the government has also assessed whether SPU should be able to invest in unlisted shares on a general basis. The government did not provide for such investments. This is because we believe that such investments could challenge the key characteristics of our governance model, which is transparency, index-related management and low costs. I have noticed that the Committee shares these assessments and supports the conclusion not to open unlisted shares on a general basis. In the Communication, the government undertook to assess investments in non-listed renewable energy infrastructure in environmental mandates, with transparency, return and risk requirements as for other investments in SPU. The Committee endorses these assessments and asks the Ministry to come back to Stortinget with a concrete proposal for a mandate by next year's notification. We'll follow that up. As part of this, we will also assess the size of environmental mandates. The Committee refers to several issues in the area of responsible management which it considers should be further assessed. Of course, we will also follow up and come back to that next year's message. I am pleased that the Committee facilitates the discussion of these issues in a good and thorough manner. Let me add that the review of the Norwegian Bank's administration, where we received an independent report on responsible management, shows that the bank is among the leaders in this area. Finally, several governments and magnifications have helped shape the strategy of the fund. We're going to build on that. With good and long-term management, and with broad political support, the fund will be able to support the financing of our common well-being for many generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1777	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1782	I am pleased that the Council of State confirmed that she is coming back with a specific mandate for investment in non-listed renewable energy infrastructure and that she will also assess the size of the mandate. Now the Green Party's representative talked about mouse-skrit – and it may be important to proceed with caution. However, I have to challenge the Council of State in terms of size, because we say in the vote that it has to be expanded substantially if it is to be within the mandate. So we can discuss what's essential when we're talking about 75 billion. kr, but I assume that the Council of State agrees that if you're going to move into a new universe, it must, even if you're going to do it carefully, be a certain amount to gain experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1787	I believe that I went into this quite thoroughly also at the hearing that the Finance Committee had, and I don't think I left very much doubt that I am very positive about getting this in place, but that I think it is right that we make a thorough assessment of it before we get back to the Stortinget with a complete scheme. You have to call it a mouse critique, but that is what has served the fund well over time – that we have built stone on stone, had proper investigations and secured a broad political majority behind the changes that have been carried out over time for the fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1792	Maybe there's a little bit in the division of labour here that the Ministry of Finance usually keeps going, while it's the Bighold's job sometimes to push a little bit and be a little more impatient. Another area concerns the follow-up to the study by the Gedrem Committee on Central Bank Law and the organisation of the SPU. There the council said in the notice that they were coming back to Stortinget. That is a common wording. In the committee's comments, we are asking for a return to the forthcoming roll-out session. I don't think it's good that such an investigation, even if it is to be thoroughly evaluated, is too long before a conclusion is reached. So is the Council of State set to follow up that time perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1799	I work hard to get this case completed, so that it can be presented to Stortinget as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1804	A large proportion of the management of the oil fund is currently taking place abroad. If one had ensured that a greater proportion of the administration had taken place in Norway, it could help strengthen the Norwegian financial industry, it could have had important ring-fences for other industries in Norway, and it could also have been important for the fund and its management. One has both competitive wages and important competences in Norway, which the Fund could have drawn from various parts of Norway. Will the Council of State be in favour of an investigation into the possibility of a greater part of the future management of the Fund in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1811	Now it is a not insignificant part of the management of the fund that is already taking place from Norway. So it's right that there's also government out there. There's a lot of practical reasons for that, but I don't think we should forget what's the overall objective of managing the fund. It's that we have to achieve the highest possible return, given an acceptable level of risk. We never have to lose sight of that. Here the Center Party has completely different ambitions, which are about Norwegian business. It's affordable enough, but in line with a lot of other minority proposals, it's not primarily about meeting the overall goal, but about taking other considerations into account. I think we should be careful about pushing on the fund too many criteria that lie on the outside of what are the overall objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1816	This is not about the type of sector, country or asset classes in which the fund is to be invested; the central party fully agrees that it is the criteria that apply today to ensure the highest possible returns within an acceptable risk and transparency requirement, which remain valid. What I asked concrete questions about were management environments. Would it not make sense, both to strengthen the Norwegian financial industry and to be able to contribute positively to the fund, that a greater proportion of the management took place in Norway in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1822	This is a minority proposal that has not brought together a majority in the Stortinget. The center party has to believe that. I disagree that it is necessary to spend time on it, and I also believe that we must have basic confidence that the bank is able to organise its operations in a way that is best for them in relation to what is the fund's overall objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1827	The debate on unlisted infrastructure is still going on here, and it may be worth making a little comment on it to investigate thoroughly, as it has been investigated since 2006. But for the most part – we are pleased that there will be a concrete proposal on the mandate for next year. The discussion is now on whether or not to be within the scope of the environmental mandate, and I think it is a paradox that the parties that have been most concerned every year with stressing that the oil fund should not be an environmental policy instrument are now so concerned that it should be within the context of the environmental mandate when some of the essential arguments to open up to this asset class are just about what kind of risk spread and yield the fund should have in the long term, not that it is an environmental policy tool such as that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1832	It is true that this issue has been addressed in a broad sense, and on a general basis, the Stortinget took a position on the question last year. However, when we have come back with a narrower definition of this, related to renewable energy, it is because it may prove to be reasonable. When I have said that we need to spend a little more time on it, it is about getting this into place and looking into the issues that have also been debated, about within or outside the environmental mandate. We'll do that in a thorough manner and then come back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1837	What the Minister of Finance says now may make it seem as if the Ministry of Finance is actually still keeping the door open so that it can be outside the environmental mandate if you think it's wise. There is reason to recall that within the whole class of unlisted infrastructure, renewable energy is the large growth group. It's already a very large proportion of unlisted infrastructure, and it's probably going to be an even larger share of it in the future. So why that delimitation of the environmental mandate should be so important is a little bit unclear to me. But if the Minister of Finance is going to look at this in an unhindered way and in what is wise, it will be very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1842	I also believe that, during the hearing in the Financial Committee, the representative, Mr Kaski, perceived that this is something that I am in favour of. I and the government are not dragging behind us in this matter in relation to the ambitions of Storting. Here, I think we're pretty much in agreement that we're going to get this in place. But once again, this is about how we hit it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1847	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1854	When we are discussing the state pension fund abroad today, the oil fund, it is important to remember and remind ourselves of where the money comes from. It's from the oil. I think we should all thank those who stand up in the morning for creating enormous values for society, both on land and offshore. The oil adventure has served us well, and in the future it is important that we continue to build up the fund, so that the fund can benefit the generations of the future and ensure safe well-being. But how? First of all, we need to keep the activity up in our biggest and most important industry to secure more money for the fund. Secondly, we need to manage the values of the fund wisely. Then we have to think about long-term and responsible and figure out the cross-party lines. We must avoid jumping on proposals with good intentions, but unparalleled consequences, and we must not interfere too much. We must be careful when we are still developing the fund for the better. When we now open up to assess how we can potentially invest in unlisted renewable energy infrastructure, it is responsible and moderate. Thirdly, in order to ensure the well-being of the future, politicians need to keep their hands on the barrel, limit how much money we take out, and think about what we spend the money on. It is therefore very good that the government has lowered the rule of action to 3 pst. and slows down and reduces the level of oil money use, most recently in the revised national budget. It is good that we spend more of our money on what the rule of action was meant to: boost growth and competitiveness in the Norwegian economy, invest in infrastructure, education and research and growth-promoting tax relief. It shows that we have a responsible government. We have to keep the activity up in our main industry to secure more money into the fund. We have to manage the values wisely, and we have to limit how much we pick out. This is how we ensure good welfare for future generations as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1869	I didn't really intend to take the floor anymore in this debate, but I felt the call when it seemed to be a little creative storywriting going on from representatives of the government parties. The representative, Stokkebø, comes here, is kind of a story that this government has spent a little bit of oil money. There is well reason to remember that there has never been a government that has used as much oil money as this, both in the previous period and in this period. It's nice to limit it now. SV has for several years asked that the use of oil money should be restricted. I also see that the Prime Minister has recently been out thinking that the opposition is primarily asking for increased use of money. Then there is reason to remember that this government has spent a lot of oil money. The opposition has largely asked for less use of oil money. And then I think we're all happy that the rule of action has been lowered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1874	It is also worth remembering that when we talk about the oil fund and oil money usage, there are some parties in this room who are very happy to spend money – more oil money, more through public finances and over the state budget – but who vote against many of the projects that bring these revenues into the state fund. With the Right in Government, we're going to keep up the pressure for more value creation and more jobs, including in the oil industry, so that we get more income for future well-being. When it comes to oil money use, the government's oil money use has been in line with economic recommendations from the leading economists in this country. Countercyclical measures have been put in place to meet the demanding situation that has occurred in the South and West and in my own home country, Rogaland. It's been right, it's worked. Unemployment is falling, growth is rising, and new jobs are being created because we have pursued a policy that has been effective against unemployment. Now we're slowing up, because we see that things are going better. We're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1881	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 8 and 9 are being debated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1912	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1921	From one major industry to another, namely the financial industry, which concluded the previous debate. Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in the work of financial market communication. The Financial Committee is the nutrition committee of the financial industry. This is an industry that represents 2 pst. of employment in Norway and 7 pst. of the value added, which is the largest taxpayer in mainland Norway. In other words, the financial industry is a significant industry, which contributes to both employment and value creation for our country. For this reason, the majority of the Committee, all except Red, also demonstrate that well-functioning financial markets are a prerequisite for development. It is even more important that robust financial institutions provide security for families and businesses around the country. Stability in the financial sector is very important, and one of the key tasks of this Committee is to contribute to it through the decisions we take. The 2008 financial crisis reminded us of the importance of good and accurate regulation of this industry. During the previous ageing period, we experienced an oil price drop that created significant challenges for the Norwegian economy. But this was also a challenge that was quickly addressed, both through monetary policy, through low interest rates, a weakened crown, responsible parties in wage making, and not least an expansive government fiscal policy. In other words, optimism and growth are back in the Norwegian economy. We as consumers have noted the digital development of the financial industry. When I was little, I was with my mother every Saturday on two things. First we were at Polet, then we were at the bank. I don't know what she did there, I think she paid bills, but it meant long queues, clutches and a lot of stamping of sheets. Now Norway is at the forefront of digitisation in the financial sector. This means that you no longer go to the bank – you solve most of it through your mobile phone or online. One of the things that Norway is already at the forefront of is also something that we still need to be at the forefront of. For this reason, the Committee, once again all except the Red Party, states that it wishes to establish so-called regulatory sandboxes by the end of 2019. This is a way to follow what some other countries are doing: to ensure that new solutions and new innovations can be tested, which can also contribute to the start-up of new companies that can create values and facilitate solutions for ordinary people. A well-functioning financial sector also contributes to capital, whether for home purchase or for business start-ups. It's in many ways the circulation of our economy. But we also know that consumer loans and the growth they have seen can cause problems for some, although it is also an important offer for those who get unforeseen expenditure in the short term. That is why a joint committee says that proposals are being made by the government to prohibit the aggressive marketing of consumer loans during the autumn of 2018. Another topic that has been discussed in the Committee and for which there are various proposals is the introduction of ceiling rates for consumer loans. There is a majority in the Committee that several measures have already been taken that have not yet been sufficiently effective, and the majority – consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the government parties – therefore believe that the imposition of interest caps should be awaited. All in all, this financial market message reminds us that Norwegian banks are solid. They are profitable, and they have become much more solid through the regulations and decisions taken after the financial crisis. This also equips us for new possible setbacks. Finally, I would just like to say a little about the second matter we are dealing with at the same time, namely the report from the Norwegian Bank. The representativeness has no comments on the operation and is generally satisfied. However, they point out and point out that the overall budget for the Bank of Norway is increasing by 11 p.m., and we as the Committee note that the Bureau itself says that they want more information about the cause of cost developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1944	The financial industry is doing well. The banks had a profit of 55 billion last year. kr. Even if the interest rate is low, the net interest rate is good. Access to capital is good in Norway and financial markets work well. For the Workers' Party, it has been important that Norwegian banks are not only profitable but also solid. Following the Norwegian banking crisis in the 1990s, strong capital requirements and risk management requirements have been imposed on banks. It is gratifying to note that we now have the best capitalised banking industry in Europe, together with Sweden. It was gratifying when the IMF last week found that even with a sharp decline in the economy in Norway, with huge losses for banks, they see no banks in Norway that will face a negative capital situation. That is why the Labour Party said in this case that in 2019 we must also give Norwegian banks the opportunity to hold back slightly less capital when lending to small and medium-sized enterprises. They have had this kind of access in the rest of Europe since 2013. Fortunately, there will also be a majority in this case. In its communication, the Workers' Party has focused on research and development in the financial industry. The industry is one of those who have changed significantly in recent years. They have introduced new technologies, and they have reduced the number of employees. It is important that growth and government together facilitate good development in the industry, and we are pleased that the rest of the committee has joined us in focusing on research and agreeing to adopt a regulatory sandbox for ‘fintech’ companies – despite the fact that it was not proposed by the government to introduce it yet. Both industry and consumers in Norway are among the world’s best at digitisation. It is important that the authorities make it possible for us to continue to be the main users of new technologies, including those we have not yet developed. A well-functioning financial market is important for both consumers and businesses. That is why we have supported the industry's desire to get its own big message on a business policy for the financial industry. Both employers’ and employees’ organisations believe that the financial market message is too passive and is too little about the future. Unfortunately, we did not get the rest of the committee on this request. If the banks are solid, the debt growth in Norwegian households is unfortunately very worrying. Norwegian households have historically high liabilities, twice gross income, and the share of income used by households to pay interest and deductions has increased and is now at the level of what it was during the Norwegian banking crisis in the 1990s. There is often a situation in front of financial crises, and last week the IMF pointed out that Norway is among the countries in the world where households are most indebted to their income. It was also their opinion that Norwegian dwellings are overpriced, for Oslo they applied. 15 p.m., for the rest of the country 5-10 p.m. It is important to follow these developments, and there is the main reason behind the Housing Loan Regulation, which the Workers' Party believes should be continued. At the same time, we see that one of the effects of the housing loan regulation is that it can help keep young people out of the housing market. It's the ones that have the lowest equity, and that's where the ceiling of five times gross income limits the most. When 50 pst. by young people who are buying housing now receiving help from their parents, the Workers' Party is concerned about those who do not have parents who can or will not provide equity or insurance. It helps to reinforce and increase differences in Norway because entering or not entering the housing market means a lot to the economy. That is why we voted in the Stortinget in May to allow the Husbank to provide start-up loans to young people who do not have the necessary equity, but who have the ability to manage, but the proposal was unfortunately not adopted. The working party has been involved in consumer loans. Nordmen's consumption loan increased by 13 pst. last year. It was just 3 pst. of our debts, but 12 pst. of the interest payable. We would like to point out that banks and authorities have been without an important tool since the Solberg government stopped working with the public debt register proposed by the Stoltenberg government before the 2013 elections. Because we don't have a debt register, there's no overall overview of a person's debt obligations, and that's why we need an important tool to assess people's ability to pay. That is regrettable, but the government must now give priority to putting in place its private debt registry option. We have joined in the proposal to ban the aggressive marketing of consumer loans because we are concerned, and we have asked the government to issue a preferred rate cap model that can be implemented if necessary. We have changed our proposal a little, it has been presented, we want feedback on a possible interest rate cap in the financial market notification 2019. With that, I take up the proposals Labour Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1965	The representative of Åsunn Lyngedal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1970	Well-functioning financial markets and a financial infrastructure that is stable and credible are crucial for our society to function as well as it actually does. The trust between people, between people and country and between country and business and work would have been quite different if this very basic premise had not been in place. The Mjøs Committee concluded a few months ago in its NOU that the Norwegian capital markets are mainly functioning well, and that access to capital for Norwegian enterprises is good, including in the case of foreign capital, which for a very large part of the country's enterprises is a banking loan. However, there are some small cuttings in the sea, such as: for many small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe, it is easier to obtain loans on good terms than for Norwegians because of the so-called SME discount introduced in Europe. To this end, a joint committee is asking for progress in establishing a similar discount in Norway, so that competition between enterprises is in fact more equal than at present. The financial industry as an industry currently accounts for about 2 p.m. of employment and 7 pst. of the value added in Norway and is the mainland’s largest taxpayer. The banks and insurance companies are doing well with solid profits, which in turn facilitates access to capital for their enterprises and households. Moderate dividends and increased capital requirements for banks have made it possible for us today to have some of the safest banks in Europe. The financial industry has been facing a violent change in the past few decades. It's actually surprising a few years since the bank book was in use and our main contact with the bank was over the counter in one of the many branches around the country. It's not like that anymore. It's a good thing that it's not like that. New technologies create opportunities, but also challenges, for the financial sector. BankAxept, robotic processes for the treatment of loan requests and Vipps are examples of innovations that not only allow financial corporations to spend more of their time and resources on core business, but also make life and everyday life easier for us as consumers. At the same time, we know that the financial industry is among the industries that are most often exposed to cyberattacks. Therefore, vulnerability can be great, including for us as consumers. Fortunately, the industry itself is offensive and on the ball, and in addition, the bulk of the population in the last few years have been putting massive emphasis on ICT, both through research, development and on the education side. In order to achieve even more innovations and new products that help and delight both consumers and the financial industry, the Committee – minus Red – proposes that by 2019 the government set up a regulatory sandbox for ‘fintech’ in Norway according to the model of many of our neighbouring countries. This can be an important step, both because it can prevent start-ups and new innovations from happening in countries other than Norway, and because, at the intersection of government, industry and R & D environments, there is enormous potential for increased value creation and new innovative solutions. What threatens our financial stability the most is increasing debt and increasing housing prices. Over 90 pst. of the debt of households has been taken up by mortgages in housing, and with the growth we have had in housing prices over the last decades, it has given households access to more loans. At the same time, interest rates have been historically low over a long time. It's nice when you don't see a single cloud in the sky, that you should get the most worried. Norway’s Bank has announced an increase in interest rates in the coming years. It's actually a good thing because it means that the Norwegian economy is doing better, but it can also lead to challenges for those who have borrowed a lot in recent years. However, the answer may not be increased. Nor is it certain that there is any solution, as the Workers' Party believes, that we should make access to capital easier for some groups of society. Young, quite common young people, should not initially be part of housing social measures. This is also money to be paid back when interest rates rise, either the bank's name is DNB or the House Bank. The main job has its municipal government representatives by improving the balance between supply and demand in the housing market and regulating attractive plots for residential purposes, especially in and around the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e1989	The financial industry is important for Norway. The financial industry is a crucial engine for keeping Norway going. The financial industry is an important contribution to the good life of people throughout the country and contributes to the financing of large and small-scale industrial projects in rural and urban areas. Therefore, it is important to facilitate a diverse and present financial industry throughout Norway. It is not least important to contribute to the fact that we also have many small actors and that we are active across our long-term country. It is important for the financing of enterprises and their projects, and it is also important for individual households. During the consultation on the financial market notification, there was a unanimous demand to do something about the SME discount and to have it introduced into Norway. It is little incomprehensible – both the training that has been done here by the government and that it is still not implemented when both Finans Norway, the Finanzbundet and banks across the country have called for it. It makes access to capital more difficult, it helps to lose jobs in Norway and create competitive disadvantages in relation to other countries, countries where the SME discount has been introduced for the longest time. It's urgent to introduce it, the Central Party has called for it earlier, and there's further need. It's overtime to do something about the SMB discount. With regard to the development of the housing market and the large housing debt in Norway, the Minister of Finance has previously challenged this in Stortinget, among others. in the Questionnaire. I am now recording that the IMF in its advice to Norway last week is particularly concerned with the development of debt and the danger it can create for financial stability. With regard to the development of the housing market: the long-term thing we have to provide is, of course, decentralisation, the provision of activity throughout the country, which will also help to dampen the pressures in the big cities. In the short term, however, it is wise to continue the regulations relating to the housing loan regulation. The growth in consumer loans is worrying. Although it represents a small proportion of the total loan amount, it is high growth, and those taking up consumption loans have to bear high interest rates. There are often some of them who have a weak economy initially, and who, through the absorption of consumer loans, end up in a more difficult situation. There will also be alarming signals that a consumer loan is being taken up to finance mortgages. We are pleased that important restrictions have been made, and we look forward to consumer lending banks no longer being free of charge passengers in some contexts. However, it is important to implement more measures. The central party believes that we need to investigate — and also propose — a rate cap model in Norway. We have our own proposal on this together with several other parties that I want to discuss. At the same time, I would also like to inform you that we are voting in a subsidiary way for the proposals of the Labour Party. We are also pleased that the Committee has joined forces to ban the aggressive marketing of consumer loans. The rapporteur was concerned about digitisation in Norway. Of course, it is good for Norway to be digitised, to get simpler and better solutions in many areas. At the same time, many people are not involved in digitisation, so they are dependent on other solutions and have other needs. It is therefore important to maintain cash as a compulsory means of payment in the future. It is important to ensure that banks are legally obliged to make deposits and withdrawals available in cash. I am very pleased that the Financial Supervisory Authority says that one here should have a public investigation in this area, and with the emphasis that the Governor of the Central Bank had on this issue in the hearing. However, this should be followed up by the adoption of the proposal for an investigation at Stortinget. I'll bring up the proposals of the Center Party with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2012	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2017	In my post during the treatment of the spillage notice about the oil fund, I talked about climate risk. Climate risk is also relevant here. We know that the climate change that is taking place will challenge financial stability in the long term, both through the physical damage of extreme weather, resulting in greater insurance payments, and through investments facing greater risks, both politically, regulatoryly and in terms of conversion. For example, investments in fossil energy could meet rapid shifts and falls in value. What does this mean? Well, while work on climate and sustainability has so far been isolated to cut its own emissions, we now need to talk about what climate policy and new technology means for our economy and for the business models of Norwegian companies. What do conditions such as CO 2 pricing, stricter regulation, new technologies and changing consumer behaviour mean? I believe it is very good that the majority here states that climate change could affect the values of financial undertakings' investments, and the Climate Risk Committee will, until December 2018, assess the significance of climate risk for the Norwegian economy. The government also writes that they want to ‘estimate the need for changes in requirements for corporate reporting on climate-related risks’. In the next year’s financial market notification, SV meets with a thorough review and discussion of this, and on how the financial sector can be an important part of the solution. Then I will mention two other issues that concern, related to both inequality and financial stability. The financial supervision, the Bank of Norway, the OECD and the IMF are showing high housing prices and increasing debt requirements in Norwegian households as the largest risk factor for the Norwegian economy, and more in previous contributions have also been mentioned. The housing market is also a major driver of inequality in Norway. Differences are increasing between those who get help from their parents to take on increasingly higher debts, and thus get into the housing market early, and those who do not get the same help. This leads to further pressure to absorb more and more debt, and prices are being pushed up. In the future, we need to succeed in a policy that respects both the self-ownership line and a social housing policy that slows down debt growth and slows down the housing market. The goal must be that today’s young people should not be forced to take on high debt – as we see them doing today. We know that is harmful to an entire generation and to the productivity of the economy. The mortgage regulation, mentioned in this message and in the setting, has been very important. However, in addition to the continuation of the Housing Loan Regulation, it is essential to see housing policy in a wider context. The problem of a gradual build-up of economic instability due to increasing debt cannot be solved solely by bank regulation but must be resolved in a way that does not drive housing prices further. Then comes instruments such as the benefit-taxing of dwellings and the increased taxation of secondary dwellings in combination with lower income taxes, as well as land regulation, rentals for ownership and other instruments. This is a perspective that is missing in the mention of the housing market and the household debt in this wholesale notification. Further to consumption loans, which have also been covered by several. Access to credit is a good thing, but the growth in consumer loans is also a matter of concern to SV, both for the sake of financial stability and for the individuals who end up in debt. We know that vulnerable groups have a significant overrepresentation among those who experience problems with this form of loan. And we know that this represents a formidable risk also at the social level. Implementation of more restrictive measures has been adopted in recent years, including: follow-up to the SV’s proposal for guidelines on sound lending practices. But we believe there is a need for further action. The government’s draft new Financial Contracts Act contains proposals for good measures as a refusal obligation, but lacks measures that include the growing problem of additional credit turnover benefits. This can be done by following the decision we are about to take today to ban aggressive marketing of consumer loans. At the same time, it is unfortunate that important instruments, such as: interest rate caps are not being introduced at this time. Interest rate caps have been introduced on loans and credit in many countries in the world. Interest rate caps will mean that it will no longer be profitable for banks to provide loans to those persons with the highest credit risk, that is, the group that is most at risk of payment difficulties. Interest rate caps will also be a targeted tool to prevent companies offering new forms of consumer loans, such as payday loans, from getting footholds in Norway. However, it appears that there will be a majority to consider different interest rate caps models, but that they will not be introduced with the first. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposals for such an investigation. We also have proposals, including: on further measures to tighten consumption loans, which I am referring to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2051	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2056	Banks and financial institutions play an important role in the economy. They offer payment services, deposits and loans to households and enterprises and insurance against real risk, such as fire, death, sickness, etc., and financial risks, such as sudden price changes in currency, interest rates, commodities. The financial industry contributes crucial financial infrastructure to serve households and businesses throughout the country and is considered to be an infrastructure industry. The financial crisis was reduced in Norway, not least because, following the banking crisis of the 1990s, we had introduced stricter regulations than other countries, including the United Kingdom. with higher requirements for bank equity. Special regulation was a priority in the face of the crisis because it gave us more solid banks and fewer speculative financial products. However, we do not have a quantitative limit on what banks can like risky, private interest rate papers or derivatives, and we have no guarantee that banks will in future not take greater risks in securities or derivatives. In this case, coordination of securities activities and traditional banking activities may be detrimental to financial stability. Therefore, the Christian People's Party proposes that the government promote a proposal that reduces banks' access to take additional risks outside the core business. Consumption loans have grown and pose a particularly high risk to the debt problem, both for individuals and for society. The Christian People's Party is pleased that an overall committee supports the proposal to prohibit the aggressive marketing of consumer loans. At the same time, it is unfortunate that important instruments, such as: interest rate caps are not imposed. Interest rate caps will have the effect that it will no longer be profitable for banks to provide loans to those persons with the highest credit risk, i.e. the group that is most at risk of having difficulties in payment and, in the longer term, large-scale debt problems. Organisations that have been set up by the Consumer Council, the Landersförbund and the Debt victim Alliance to introduce interest caps in Norway. Therefore, the Christian People's Party proposes to explore different interest rate models in Norway, and that the government promote a proposal to this effect in the financial market notification in 2019. We note that the Workers' Party has promoted a loose proposal which is aimed only at identifying different models, and we will also vote in a subsidiary way for that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2074	Financial markets are a large part of the Norwegian economy and provide services that are important in people's lives. In the financial market notification of the year, the government stresses that stable access to financial services is essential for the smooth functioning of modern economies. The cost to society of financial market turmoil and crises can be high and long-term. Norwegian banks are solid and profitable, and in the last ten years, overall soundness has become twice as good. The banks are thus better equipped to handle any setback in the Norwegian economy. The good performance of banks also facilitates future capital build-up. Banks have built up their soundness in response to new demands following the international financial crisis. At the beginning of March of this year, the size adopted the preliminary last of the banking reforms following the financial crisis: a new regulatory framework for the prevention and management of banking crises. The regulatory framework will contribute to lower risks in the banking sector and may over time save the Norwegian economy and public expenditure. In recent years, the government has put in place several measures to limit the risk of the high debt in households, including the countercyclical capital buffer requirement and other adjustments to the soundness requirements of banks. The Housing Loan Regulation has been in operation for almost three years, and the Government will soon decide whether to continue after 30 June of this year, and in what form. For the fourth consecutive year, the financial market notification of the year has a specific mention of industrial policy issues. The government has stressed in its Communication that the financial sector is both a significant industry in itself and a source of finance for other business. The availability of capital is good today, both at banks and in securities markets. The Norwegian financial industry has been early off with digital services, and the government will facilitate a continued high rate of innovation. We now see that competition and innovation can speed up financial markets as a result of new technologies, new EU regulation and the entry into force of new domestic and foreign actors. The emergence of ‘fintech’ enterprises raises questions as to whether regulation is well adapted to technological developments. Financial supervision has established a contact point to guide and provide information, but also to gain a better understanding of the challenges emerging technology businesses may face. The Government will consider further measures to facilitate ‘fintech’. A regulatory sandbox based on the Financial Supervisory Authority is a natural part of this work, as the Committee refers to. The government will also make it easier to use public finance, and we will follow up on the risks and opportunities of virtual currencies and the technology behind it. A third main theme of this year’s Communication is consumer protection. Consumer protection shall ensure that customers can act safely with professional operators, without thereby exempting them from risk. We must also continue to work to ensure that consumers have the skills and information to make good decisions for their own economy. The Government wants to facilitate good mobility and competition in the banking market. In the message we explain the possibilities to compare offers and exchange banks. Technological and regulatory changes are likely to contribute to increased mobility and even stronger competition in the future. The government shares the Committee's concern that more people may have debt problems with the growth we see in consumer loans. We have therefore taken a number of measures to improve information for consumers and lenders and to facilitate more thoughtful decisions. In this context, the creation of debt information undertakings is important. Other important measures are the regulation on the invoicing of credit card debts and the regulation on the marketing of credit from summer 2017. In the context of the new Financial Contracts Act, we look at how we can further ensure that consumers are not adversely affected. It is important that consumers are not subject to aggressive marketing, as the Committee also points out. We have also assessed the possibility of imposing a so-called interest rate cap, as the Stortinget has requested, but concluded that this would not be a good measure as the Norwegian market now looks. The focus should be on targeted and effective regulation that addresses the challenges facing the market today. However, we are following developments closely, and I am not stranger to re-assessing interest caps if expensive small loans were to spread, as we have seen in a number of other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2110	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2115	We have talked a little about today that housing prices have risen sharply over many years. We received a small correction in 2017, but they have increased throughout 2018 to date this year, and many believe that the prices may soon be back at the level they were at before we received corrections. Few start-ups are able to get into the housing market, perhaps especially in Oslo. Half of everyone who buys a dwelling now gets help from their parents. The size voted in May down a proposal that we supported, to be able to give start-up loans to young people who are without equity, but with control. The mortgage regulation makes it difficult for those who do not have parents who can or will help them. It can reinforce differences, and may particularly affect those who have not had a particularly good relationship with their parents or an ok growth. What will the Council of State do to make it easier for young people who are unable to help their parents to enter the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2124	I think we're all concerned – it's well anchored in the Norwegian People's Party – that we should own our own home. There are a lot of Northmen who do it, and it's clear that it's important for young people in the start-up phase too, slowly but surely, to get into the housing market. The figures I have seen so far do not indicate that there are major changes among young people in the establishment phase in terms of the housing loan regulation. That's good. But I think the main problem in the housing market is really very little about the mortgage regulation as such, because it's primarily there to regulate debt development and capital. It is about other mechanisms to improve the balance of the housing market. And then they have their planning and building law to say, other regulations to say. There we've already taken action, but I think simplifications that help bring down the costs of building new homes, balance the markets that are out of balance, that is, between supply and demand, are one of the things that are needed not to increase housing prices a lot in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2129	In the financial market notification of the year, there is a significant mention of cash, the challenges many in Norway face in accessing cash in everyday life. The financial supervision is quoted on page 75 as saying that today most customers’ daily needs are met, but there is a danger that the cash service offer may be weakened in the future. Furthermore, financial supervision is quoted as saying that a broader investigation should be undertaken in order to assess the need for new solutions and rules. This has been followed up by the Centre Party in the setting by just proposing such an investigation. Why does the Council of State not consider it reasonable to participate in such an investigation as has been mentioned by the Financial Supervisory Authority itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2136	I think there is a broad consensus that the public should have access to different types of payment services that are appropriate for them. That's why I don't think there's a lot of controversy about having access to cash. I believe that what the Financial Supervisory Authority has said is that it is currently looking good. But we are also working to follow this up to ensure that we have good control of it, so I do not think there is any reason to discuss this issue, as the Central Party adds. This work is already well under way with and in dialogue with the Financial Supervisory Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2141	The reason why we have promoted this proposal is, among other things: that the Financial Supervisory Authority itself considers that a broader public investigation should be undertaken in order to assess the need for new solutions and rules. Norway’s Bank also follows this up, and the financial market notification states that Norway’s Bank has pointed to a need for clearer requirements for geographical availability in the case of cash. But is it to understand, if our proposal is converted into a transmission proposal, that the investigation pointed out by the Financial Supervisory Authority is a work that will be carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2146	The government has announced in the Financial Market Communication that we will follow up these questions in cooperation with both the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Bank of Norway and provide the Stortinget with an up-to-date briefing in next year’s Financial Market Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2151	I listened with interest to the Minister of Finance's mention of interest rate caps, and the Minister of Finance is also concerned that with such an interest rate ceiling, it is possible to prevent various players involved in small loans with credit from entering the Norwegian market. My question is: does the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance not see that it is an advantage to be able to prevent them from getting a foothold here at all? I find it hard to see that there are good reasons why we should open up to actors like them to get a foothold in the Norwegian market, all the time the access to credit must be said to be quite good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2156	I think it's important that we stick to regulations and instruments that solve challenges that we have. Regarding the issue of an interest rate ceiling, I believe that we have investigated it quite thoroughly and commented on it in the year's notice, but I have also announced that we will come back to it and follow it further up, based on a development we do not yet know. I don't think there's any big disagreement about this, we're following this development closely, and if that's what's needed, we'll of course come up with new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2162	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2169	There are some issues that have been left in the debate today, and I would also like to dwell a little on the large growth in consumer loans. For the Labour Party, we think it is worrying. It is claimed that several young people without parents who can help them enter the housing market take up consumption loans to finance equity. There is little factual knowledge about this, but according to a report from the Societal Economist, there is a connection. The level of interest on consumer loans is higher than on other loans and they are still placed on the market quite intensively. The risk legitimises a higher level of interest rates, but the report of the Societal Economist finds that non-repayable consumer loans do not pose real risks to the lenders. Due to the housing loan regulations, the dwelling has free security. Expenses can therefore be taken into account in the dwelling and the risk to the lenders is minimal. But interest rates are still high, although the risk is actually limited for the lenders. Many invest in consumer banks, and this is due to the possibility of quick money. Marketing is still intense, even with the changes made by the government. A survey by the Consumer Council shows that respect for the new rules does not appear to be particularly urgent. We therefore believe that there is reason to tighten the rules for marketing, and we believe that it must have consequences not to follow them. Therefore, we believe that a regulatory framework for good lending practices could be the way to go. We're happy that the government is now saying that you want to move on and look at interest rate caps. It may be necessary if there is no change in the industry. So on another theme – about the financial industry as an industry needs its own big business message. We have cryptocurrency, crowdfunding, Facebook and Amazon as intermediaries of payment, ICT solutions that make us increasingly self-held, mobile technology, hacking, downside IT systems, cash disappearing from banks, and social security for payment systems to work. The challenges are many, and this is an industry that is changing a lot. It is quite fundamental for a society to have a financial market and a financial industry that works. It is a major industry that manages a management capital on the level of the oil fund. It is also an industry that, among other things, are affected by the major climate change and its consequences, inter alia. for the insurance part of the industry. We therefore propose that this industry be looked at more closely. A flashing message should be able to analyse and give us some directions. We believe that it is necessary, and we hope for a majority for that in the Chamber today. Finally, I draw proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox It has been modified by the minority proposal in the hall and has a clarification there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2186	The representative of Rigmor Aasrud has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2204	I'll be brief. The improvement we see in the Norwegian economy, of course, also applies in the state accounts for 2017. The national accounts show that the oil-corrected deficit was 222.8 billion. kr. That's 8.6 billion. kr lower than the new aging showed, and a total of 36,7 billion. kr less than the aged budget. The expenditure growth in the State budget is 1.9 pst. Tax revenue is EUR 943,6 billion. SEK in 2017, an increase of 26.8 billion. kr, or 2,9 pst. The total revenue from the petroleum activity was 194.4 billion. kr, while the cost of petroleum activities was 26.6 billion. kr. So it's a net cash flow of 167.8 billion. kr. The Committee has no comments on the national accounts and recommends unanimously to annex that protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2213	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2229	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2238	This case concerns an SV representative proposal for the ABE reform, where they have three concrete proposals for the evaluation and follow-up of the reform. Had the debate only concerned the ABE reform and if we were to implement it, it is more natural that he had been part of the ordinary debate on either the revised national budget or the state budget. However, since there are three specific proposals, the Committee has chosen to have its own debate on them. From the plurality behind the setting's side, it seems ironic that a first criticises a reform that aims to streamline, at the same time as one has proposals that go to direct work for the administration – the same as we demand to streamline and do some work – so it is against its purpose. For this reason, I am pleased that a plurality in the Committee, consisting of the Government Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, is clear that one should not do this, while a minority, consisting of the other parties, wants to vote for the proposals. I expect that they will do their best for their own vision. If we lift our eyes a little, we know that we have been through demanding times for Norwegian business. We know that Norwegian municipalities are often forced to adapt their spending to income and operate with continuous efficiency in order to get room for new things. Then it might be a little strange for all those who follow this debate, that it is a big problem that the government gets a careful demand to streamline 0.5 pst. I think business leaders in the West will be surprised that there is a problem in itself, and I think very many Norwegian municipalities will look at it as very little demanding for the state to streamline, looking up what municipalities have done in the last ten years. They have found room for many new investments in their municipalities because they have focused on efficient operation. For us, it's quite natural that the state does the same thing. The continued focus of the state on efficient operation is important for more reasons, both because one should trim the organisation and focus on spending its taxpayers’ money wisely, and because there must be room for future efforts. If we're to focus more on things that we think are important, such as knowledge, defence, health and culture, to name something, we need to find space. Then it's hot natural that one goes to the red tape section, and makes a little harsh demands on the state. We therefore insist that we do not oblige the government to carry out extensive work on the three proposals, and I would recommend the Committee's proposals for decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2249	The most interesting thing about this is that government representatives do not at all address important issues by facilitating the efficiency and productivity development of the public sector in the context of a comprehensive budget. No one disagrees that the public sector also needs to develop, apply new technologies, new working methods, get more for the crowns. It's done to a large extent. One of the most important examples is the Tax Directorate. My father had to help the neighbors fill out the declaration because it was too complicated for many. Today it comes completed, and it is affordable for most to submit necessary corrections. Hospitals are another example. New treatment methods allow surgery that required days in hospitals to be done in the outpatient clinic in one hour. But it hasn't given any reason to cut the appropriations. Why not? Because new treatment methods provide new treatment options. The problems are growing. More effective ways of working at the same time can trigger the need for more resources because the tasks are growing. Large parts of the public sector are such. It is the people who make up most of the expenditure — in hospitals, in the care of the elderly, in the education sector. New working methods, new technologies can also provide a basis for efficiency improvement and productivity increase. However, when needs and tasks also grow, costs per treatment may decrease, but the sum is that there is a need for increased appropriations because needs are increasing. This does not go into the representatives of the government parties. They go on the same line as the Council of State. In her letter to the committee, she acts as Princess Vilkke. It is too difficult, too time consuming, too expensive to do as the proposal asks, to get an overview of how this so-called reform works. Does it provide for conversion and more efficiency and, where appropriate, for which establishments? The problem is that the cuts affect all businesses equally, regardless of the real opportunities they have to improve efficiency, reorganise or access to new technologies. The idea seems to be that tighter budgets should be a kind of magic wand for creative savings. What we look for years with such budget cuts is that more and more public enterprises are warning that some of the activity needs to be reduced, waiting time increases and quality decreases. The Agenda think tank has done a little of what the Minister of Finance will not do: examine the effects of several state activities in the report ‘Effects — Not So Effective Efficiency’. The conclusions are e.g. in public services that are labour-intensive, savings have to be made mainly through reduced manning. It is not a reform. It's a saving measure. I address the proposals on which the Labour Party, the Socialist Left, the Greens and Reds are united.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2268	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2273	The centre party wants services near people. We want people – wherever they live in the country – to have access to good services that are further developed year after year to meet new demands. If you're going to focus on securing good services near people, you also have to be willing to do some priorities. The centre party has made some clear priorities in its alternative budgets. Firstly, we have supported proposals for cuts in the so-called ABE reform. Very well known, most of the parties in this room have also used the funding of these cuts in their alternative budgets. In addition, it is important to make clear policy priorities, such as: within the police by strengthening the local police, so that there are more police officers and more preventive work, but also so that one can solve big and small issues in everyday life, and that one should cut into state bureaucracy, for example cutting off the Police Directorate, which during the period this government has been sitting has increased the number of employees almost twice. Similarly, it is in other sectors. Whether it is to strengthen local health services and cut red tape in the Health Directorate or in other sectors, it is important to have an ambition to help cut red tape in order to strengthen the provision of services. When government parties strike their breasts over this reform, at the same time, it is important to point out what has happened while the same parties have ruled. According to Aftenposten on 3 May 2017, during the period of government of the blue-blue government, 1 000 new bureaucrats had arrived in departments and Directorates. It's not cut, it's a huge increase. The ambition to cut red tape may well be agreed, but then it is important that it is just what happens, and that the cuts that take place through the so-called ABE reform do not contribute to new interventions for centralisation or to weaken the provision of services. Unfortunately, there are just this many underlying agencies that have done. It is therefore important to give a clear signal. Where one has this red tape and efficiency reform, the measures taken shall be real efficiency measures and real red tape, while the service provision shall be maintained throughout the country. It's an important premise that needs to be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2282	In the course of the many debates we've had today, there's one thing we've always come back to, and that's an investigation. I am in favour of a knowledge-based approach to the policy pursued. That is also why we have promoted this proposal. We want more knowledge and a review of the consequences of government policy. We have also discussed the use of oil money. There is no doubt that never has a government had as much oil money – and used as much oil money – as this government. But we know that in the years to come, politicians from all parties will have to tighten up. We can no longer count on the same income. One of the steps we need to take is to streamline and improve the public sector. Everyone agrees, but there is a great deal of disagreement about how the efficiency can best be achieved, how to ensure the best possible public sector for all. One thing that is desirable is technology. Technology needs to be focused on, it needs to be developed, it needs to be willing to invest in – including in the public sector. I think it must be realized that the public sector will never be able to have the same productivity growth or the same productivity gains that the private sector can have in many ways, even if new technologies are being used. Therefore, it becomes unfair to compare the public sector with business alone. The so-called efficiency reform, which we are discussing here, is essentially flat cut, without control or priority. It does not involve a targeted focus on technology or on digitisation. One of the reasons why we are so concerned and sceptical about this so-called reform is that we simply cut the budgets flat, without ensuring the real efficiency needed. Now we see that the consequences start to take shape. The Labour Inspectorate reports a cut of more than 10 million. and that they must deprioritise work such as accident prevention, ergonomics and chemistry. In the courts, the cut-off has been 51 million. only in the last few years, and also there are warnings that cut in practice will mean cut in services. The hub also announces that the appropriations will be cut, while the tasks will be as many as before. The budget papers of health businesses also show that the ABE reform has consequences. What we have proposed in this case is that we have a review of the real consequences, but also a review of whether it actually improves efficiency. I think that would be wise. I think it is alarming that neither the government parties nor the central party are really interested in knowing what the consequences of this policy are.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2295	Six SV Trustees promoted a representative proposal earlier this year to review the government’s red tape and efficiency reform. They have proposed a major effort to evaluate the reform, to describe the impact on each department and state activity, to describe the consequences up to 2030 and to make cuts visible to all ministries and state activities back to 2015. I am pleased that the majority of the committee agrees that it needs to be made more effective in the public sector as well, and that we need to reduce red tape. The opposition's proposals would have resulted in extensive reporting and increased bureaucracy. The ABE reform is an effective mechanism that requires little administration, and it is unbureaucratic in the absence of reporting on, or control of, how the gains have been made. Implementing a comprehensive evaluation and describing the overall cut from 2015 would in itself be a time thief and contribute to reduced efficiency. Describing the consequences up to 2030 would have meant that we would have to have pushed ahead both the budgetary process and how individual businesses are planning the profit-taking process twelve years in advance. That being said, a debate on efficiency in the state is generally good. This government wants the best possible use of taxpayers' money. The ABE reform contributes annually to increased space for new priority actions in the State budget. At the same time, it provides an important external pressure on central government to streamline, which businesses face daily from the market. It is therefore important that the ABE reform be continued in the work of the State budget. Both industry and government have a productivity growth. Without redistribution, state enterprises will keep the gains from productivity growth themselves. However, it is important that these funds are re-allocated to priority tasks. I also believe that we must be able to raise our eyes in this debate. We've been through a sharp fall in oil prices. Many have lost their jobs, and many companies have been through tough and big changes. We cannot stand in a situation where the state does not change. I certainly believe that there is room to work better and find new, good solutions in the public sector. Although it is difficult to streamline, everyone who manages the community's resources must constantly ask themselves, Can we work smarter? Can we, for example: with digitisation moving resources from processing to better services for users? It's hard to prioritize, but it's necessary, and that's how we release resources for important welfare tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2314	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2319	This reform, or these cuts, which we are talking about here, was introduced in 2015, with only a small note, a small section, in the state budget. The consequences of this are mainly heard through the media and through conversations with the government. Today, in the Chamber, we have only the right to say that the government and the government party reject an evaluation of the reform, and that is regrettable. Does the Council of State consider that the requirements laid down in the discharge instructions for the implementation and evaluation of the reform have been well preserved by the negative line of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2326	This is a reform that has now worked for several years. It's predictable. It is not that this deprives us of the possibility of redeployment in the budgetary process. That's exactly what we're doing. The big budgetary processes are about defining areas that require a special effort from one year to the next, but they do not detract from us the responsibility of imposing a general requirement on all state enterprises to streamline their operations. I think that is absolutely necessary. We're on our way into a situation where the space of action is going to be considerably less than what we've been used to for many years. Then we must give priority. Then we have to streamline. We need to red tape, and we need to make sure that the space for action we can, until the welfare tasks we think are underfunded and that will need more money in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2334	What's the big problem is that the government that's currently sitting has not helped reduce bureaucracy. When Progress Party leader Siv Jensen went to the elections in 2013, it was just to fight against bureaucracy, and for the first four years there were thus a thousand new employees in the department and the directorate. The police directorate, as the Progress Party in 2013, opted for a cut-off, almost doubled in the number of employees. Why doesn't one from the government, when one says one's busy reducing bureaucracy, just prioritises reducing bureaucracy? Instead, there are services near people who have been harmed. Why has one not given priority to reducing red tape more?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2341	I totally disagree with the claim that there are services near people who have been harmed by this government’s policy – rather the opposite. I simply do not understand how the representative Geelsvik can claim that this government has not done the job of reducing red tape. We have. We have implemented a wide range of reforms. Some have even been stopped by Stortinget because they have not wanted to participate in the efficiency measures, despite the fact that we can thus release significant amounts every year in the future. We need to be able to do more things at the same time, and having a general reform that will make the operation of our agencies more efficient, while at the same time driving significant redistribution through the state budget, I think we should continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2348	The government has implemented a number of measures for the centralisation of Norway that have removed services close to people, for example within the police — with a massive centralisation and closure of well-functioning labour offices and a weaker local presence of police, which has created increased problems, including: Here in Oslo. So one on the other hand has done an increase, and almost double, in the number of employees in the Police Directorate. It is not a red tape, nor is it a priority to provide services close to people. Will a few more lines from the government ahead, or will there continue to be red tape with the government that is now sitting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2353	Again, I completely disagree with the allegations made by the representative Gülsvik. This government has not pursued a policy of centralisation, rather the opposite. We've been working on strengthening the services where people live. But there's no point in having a public infrastructure if it's not in use. There is no point in decorating yourself with an office that is closed. What's a point is to make sure that we have good services close to people, who are in use, and who can be used when people need them. We have arranged for that. We have to be able to keep up with social development. We live in a time with a significant degree of digitisation. People's behaviour is changing, and if the public sector is not able to stick to it, the public sector is out-dating its role in society, and I don't think that will be useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2360	When one says that one will have services close to people, I don't know if one then means close to the Progress Party people in the government apparatus, because that's at least where we've seen the greatest growth, by a massive increase in the Police Directorate, while one has had a weakening in the local offer within the police. I repeat my question: when will a bet on reducing the state bureaucracy, when a survey last year showed thousands of new employees in the department and the directorate? When will one see a development pointing in the opposite direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2365	This bets the government on every single day, and I think the results are starting to show up. We're starting to get good results. We have implemented a significant number of reforms, which – I note – have not all been supported by the Centre Party, but which are useful, which are necessary, which are there for us to be involved in transforming society to the benefit of the citizens. And again, false claims by the representative, Gielsvik, about the effect of the near-police reform. The whole point of the near-police reform is to facilitate better services where people live, and I think we're starting to see the results of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2372	I believe that the central thing here is the relationship between tasks and appropriations to them, because what has happened over the last few years, is that we have seen significant, flat cuts that have hit widely in the public sector. After all, it's all about $9 billion. kr. It's not a small sum, and it's clearly having consequences. According to NTL Nav, the cuts will lead to 690 million. kr less in the operating budgets up to 2021, which corresponds to 1 100 fewer employees, while the number of tasks is the same. Then my question is: does the Minister of Finance not see that it is a form of discharge to carry out that type of large cut in the public sector without being willing to give political priority to which tasks to do less?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2377	The government does that all the time. The government makes political priorities, and we do that every time we put forward a government budget. It's full of political priorities. They may not be consistent with the SV's political priorities, but it is a completely different matter. I agree with Mr Kaski that we need to look at the relationship between tasks and appropriations, but that is not a one-to-one relationship in it. You sometimes get the impression, when the Storting is talking about the relationship between appropriations and tasks, that it's just climbing on more at the top of all existing schemes, and then in a way all the problems are solved. I think it's a crazy approach in a situation where we need to look at how we can release resources. We have many arrangements with us that have expired. Then we have to remove them – release those resources, so that we can more targetedly meet the challenges that society is facing now. I believe that this challenge must also be addressed by the Storting in a situation with tighter budgets in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2384	But the challenge here is that the government has not done this. On the contrary, the government has given many more tasks to very many of the institutions and agencies that have been hit by cuts. An example of this is the Institute of Public Health, which has been given major new tasks over the last few years, in parallel with the dramatic cuts in their own budgets and the redundancy of very many employees. The question then arises: how are these agencies and institutions expected to carry out a larger amount of tasks, but with fewer people? How does the government view this as an example of efficiency improvement? How do these flats provide space, opportunity and levers to actually implement the necessary investments that need to be made in order to obtain an efficiency gain? After all, in the public sector, it is not possible to pick up productivity growth in any other way than by investing in new technologies and solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2389	We make significant investments in many departments every year to release resources, to extract efficiency gains, and to be able to solve their tasks better and smarter. However, this does not prevent the reform of red tape and efficiency, which is a general instrument for all state agencies. I think it is alarming that there is such strong resistance to this from the SV's side, all the time we are going to have to do more of this in the future and not less. I repeat what I have said many times: the State budget is a political tool for making priorities, whether we want to invest more or less in different areas, or we want to increase operating resources for different areas. It depends on how the situation develops and how the needs are.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2396	What is alarming is that the government does not want to know the consequences of this so-called reform. I quote from the head of administration of the Children's Ombudsman, who says, "For us, the effect is rather the opposite. In parallel with savings requirements, there are other demands from overall authorities that increase red tape and the administrative burden on small businesses like ours.» So my question to the Minister of Finance is, has the Department somehow picked up the consequences, talked to the agencies and the institutions that are being hit by these cuts? Have you been interested in knowing the consequences for the various cuts? And do you see from the consequences that there will be some improvement in efficiency?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2407	This is primarily a reform aimed at improving efficiency. It's always the way that agencies have different wishes for increases in appropriations and that kind of thing – that's fine. But to claim that the individual departments have not made contact with their offices – yes, of course they have. They closely follow developments. This is an important part of the basis for the ongoing budgetary work, both in each department and collectively in the government. Again, we need to be able to carry out general efficiency improvements while prioritizing the state budget. But priority is also about wiping out to say no to something, and a little bit of the challenge we're facing right now is that there might not be an equally widespread understanding in the Storting because we're going into a time of tighter budgets. Then we have to give priority to tougher ones, and then we can't spend more money on absolutely every purpose. In fact, you don't give priority to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2414	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2421	The treatment of this matter has shown quite clearly that both the opposition and the states have long since recognised that the whole of this reform is just a covert to avoid prioritising the state budget. The most serious example so far is the additional cut that came into the budget deal in the fall, just before Christmas, just to get the negotiations to go up. Cut at 0.7 pst. is 661 million. In addition to the government's proposal, which is incidentally just as much as the sum of the 140 small measures the Christian People's Party and the Left were put in place in the budget agreement. This is a slow yearning, which means that government agencies have to cut down on the activity, that fewer people have to do more, or that they deliver less services to people. The leader of the Norwegian Service Team for adding to the state, John Leirvaag, told the NRK on 24 November 2017 how cut turns out to add to Nav and for those who are going to accept services from there. The process takes longer for users, longer waiting on the phone, and the ability to follow up the Nav users will be reduced. It is difficult to understand that the government wants fewer people working in Nav, when so many are outside the labour market, says NTL, and I think they say it well. If this were really meant to be a reform, it would be well done, planned and consistent. When it was introduced in 2015, it was only briefly mentioned in a small section of the budget. It's strange at best that the government party won't be involved in evaluating the impact of cut after so many years, but maybe it's because they're afraid of the result. The working party is too efficient. We're for less bureaucracy. We are for more for the money, as the representative Svein Roald Hansen has explained in an excellent way in his article. That is why we have been involved in the far-reaching aspects of this reform. What we're not for, on the other hand, is for everyone who varies from year to year depending on how much money you need to settle a budget. Since these cuts are still coming just before Christmas and the budget year starts on 1 January, it is impossible for the budgets to plan. So this is not a reform, it is primarily a clean cut. I mean, there's a limit to being an unprofessional way of saluting the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2434	It is obvious that there is room for change and efficiency in the public sector, but the government’s ABE reform is not a good solution to this. A well-known result of the reform is that it does not cut red tape but services, and it does not solve the basics: that the state and the public sector need a fundamental reform, which is about organisation, culture and leadership, where a strengthening of first-line services and from this it provides for less red tape and efficient operation – a reform of trust-based leadership that puts leadership in the front, where one goes away from the objective and performance management principle and the market principle of the New Public Management theory. The most unprofessional thing about the reform, however, is that the government party and the Christian People's Party use it to balance their budgets. Every year in the last four years, this has increased the number of ABE reforms – from 0.5 to 0.8 pst. – to finance own bets and hearts while closing eyes on the consequences. As for health care: Managing Director of Health Vest, Herlof Nilssen, is referred to in Today's Medisin May 8th this year as the red tape of red tape affects patients. Health West has, according to the director, every year from 2013 until today experienced a slightly tighter budget. The government promised to protect hospitals for efficiency requirements, but the director still sees that the curtailments burden the hospital budget in the West by EUR 251 million. kr in 2018. For the whole country, the number is approx. Bn. 1,3 kr. Another example is criminal custody. Last year, the Directorate of Criminal Welfare warned that the reform of red tape and efficiency is leading to dangerously low staffing in Norwegian prisons, and there is a desperate situation that particularly affects interventions with special needs, such as the many interventions with drug problems and/or mental illness. The mountain prison department Ulvsnesøy last year made a slightly different twist to avoid cutting the crew. They slaughtered their sheep to finance the ABE cut – and it's actually not customs. But then to SV's suggestion: They suggest that this must be met by asking the government to evaluate and calculate the consequences of the implemented and future ABE cut for each department and in all government activities. What we mean is to create even more unnecessary bureaucracy and reporting. But we are quite a few in the criticism of the solution to cut red tape and of the efficiency of the government with this reform. We think we should have a more efficient public sector, but this reform is not the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2449	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2466	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2482	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2498	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde, who is the rapporteur on the subject, but it does not appear that she is in the Chamber. Then we give the word to Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2509	It is an honor to start this debate. We've dealt with several major school cases this spring. This is the most important one. Norwegian school needs a trust reform. It's about more time for learning and more trust in the teachers. I am proud that it was we in the opposition who took that responsibility, put the agenda and presented this matter. This day could highlight a separator. It could be a party day for School-Norway, but unfortunately right votes, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party against our proposal. When the proposal of trust reform for teachers does not receive a majority, it is particularly important to remember why this proposal came. Over a number of years, political Norway has launched various initiatives to fix the school, with the best intentions. But the result has also been the opposite. The report on the teacher’s role confirms this. The teachers are left with expectations, and at the same time the report points to a shift in the public debate. The work of teachers – their competence and what they achieve in classrooms – is often referred to as one-sided, negative and sluggish, which when Right and Erna Solberg have thought over a number of years that Norwegian school is too poor and that we need better teachers. That debate has all the parties involved, so no one is going free here. That's why it's also our joint responsibility to clean up something that's all part of it. We now see a lack of trust between teachers’profession and education authorities — a loss of confidence through referrals from central and local school authorities in conflict with professional judgements, and the introduction of new time thieves, such as reporting and testing. Therefore, the Workers' Party, SV and the Senterpartiet promote proposals for a trust reform in the school. We believe that the testing and reporting regime takes too much time away from the good educational work, and I think the teachers at school are familiar with the fact that time is consumed by too many administrative and bureaucratic tasks. One example is that the politicians in the Vefsn municipality would introduce an old behavioral program from the United States, without consulting the teachers. Another is when the municipality of Sandfjord placed an assessment of students close up to introducing grades in primary school. There are many of these examples. The Labour Party will have a common school that sees the whole student, where children learn well and thrive with teachers who have time and trust. That is why we set out five basic principles for a trust reform in our proposal. We want fewer, but clearer targets. We will have objectives and quality indicators reflecting the school's broad societal mandate and knowledge vision. We want real participation and trust in cooperation between school owners, school managers and teachers at all levels. We want a strong professional community that will be the cornerstone of the school's professional work and development, that teachers will be given a wide professional space, and that this will lead to equal responsibility. In sum, we believe that school and teachers, based on professional assessments, should be given greater freedom. It's a professional task, not a political task, to choose educational tools. The size should guide the school through clear goals, not over-management, and have confidence that the professionals do their part of the job. This principle is clear that the right parties do not understand. First, they go against these five principles. I would like to know why. Most of all, they are revealed by their criticism and opposition to our proposal. Let me say once and for all: a reform of trust is not contrary to school policy. It only requires more of us politicians to concentrate school policy on structure, good enough funding and resources, not political detail management. School buildings still have to be cleaned up. The anxiety of performance among students requires a more practical and creative school, and inactivity and obesity require more activity and healthy school food. Rectors and teachers are superheroes who are on our children every day. But we can't expect them on their own to fix things like more teachers, extra intensive training for those who need it, a more practical school and more physical activity. No, the Storting must and must set the framework for a national school policy and allocate the necessary funds. Only in this way do we ensure that all schools are involved and that there are no major differences in the structure of the schools our children meet. Then we have to trust that professionals can both do their job and make the best professional assessments. The government must now steer blindly towards an enormous teaching shortage. I think trust reform can be one of the most important steps to increase the interest and respect for the teaching profession. Unfortunately, the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party today are voting against our proposal for trust reform, but we are not giving in. We will continue the fight for a better school – let the teacher be a teacher. So simple, but still so difficult. I would like to address the proposals of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2532	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2537	The Progress Party believes that the Norwegian education system is largely influenced by great trust in teachers and school leaders. National education authorities, through the curriculum, set objectives for learning and each school determines how they will achieve these objectives. Local school owners and school leaders have a large room for action, and we therefore think that the proposers are largely opening doors when they claim that Norwegian school needs a trust reform, and would point out that the ongoing work on simplifying curricula is one of several examples supporting this. However, we in the Progress Party agree that even more freedom and trust in the teachers will be of the good. For example, we believe that the Training Act should be softened in order to give school owners greater freedom to choose how to organise school life. Among other things, we believe that the paragraph of the Training Act which prevents level-based training should be removed. We trust school owners, school leaders, and teachers, and believe that a good school where students learn more is best developed locally. This is why the Progress Party is also for free schooling in primary school, because we believe in a school where teachers and school owners decide more on methods and content – parents can choose the school that suits best, which is thought to provide children with the best learning outcomes. Less detailed management by politicians and bureaucrats, more confidence in teachers and management and increased responsibility and the right to co-determination for parents thinks we are the way to go, but this is something we are currently far from having a majority in favour. Removing bureaucracy and time thieves in school is another area that is very important for the Progress Party. Therefore, in 2014, the government started a project together with KS to eliminate time thieves and reduce the amount of documentation and reporting in school. As a result, we simplify reporting to the primary school information system, change the assessment code, introduce reduced requirements for written in-flight assessment and have converted mandatory Vg1 reading and billing screening tests into voluntary tests, to mention something. Time thieves and bureaucracy are often taken up by principals and teachers when I am visiting schools, but what we find out is that most time thieves are local and definitely local. That is why I am pleased with the decision we are making today in III in the vote that the government must take the initiative that municipalities should reduce their documentation requirements. A time thief we have to put on our coat is the limit of absence. We know that brings a certain amount of work for teachers. Here I am open to see if we can get more flexible solutions when this is once to be evaluated. However, the absence limit works so well that it is not relevant to remove it. But if we can reduce the documentation and keep the same effect, it'll be good. The teacher shall be a teacher, not a bureaucrat. The planning and implementation of the teaching, evaluation and feedback on student work shall be the primary task of the teacher. The Progress Party therefore considers that national testing and monitoring requirements should be limited, but we would point out that objective assessment criteria are necessary to measure quality and to put in place the necessary concrete measures where necessary. The point of testing, testing and screening – dear children have many names – is to help provide a good basis for teachers’ professional assessments in meeting students. For the Progress Party, it is of great value that parents, local and national authorities are informed about the results of the school. We need to have transparency about the results in school, and openness means that we strengthen the confidence of the teachers. National tests are currently used as a good tool to measure the development of each individual student and are essential for school owners and teachers to measure progress and quality. This is also a useful and objective tool to measure the objectives of competence achieved and to ensure that the good educational instruments are put in place. The aim of the Advance Party is for all students to meet qualified and professional teachers – whether they live in Oslo or Finnmark. We have therefore increased the quality requirement at school by introducing a new and better teacher education, where the Master's degree can provide newly trained teachers with about 60 000 kroner of higher initial pay. Teachers are the school's most important resource, and they do a formidable job of giving our kids knowledge. We're working to make the teaching profession even more attractive and that's what the status profession is. In the government, we have made sure that several thousand teachers develop their abilities each year by deepening the subject in which they teach, through further education. This initiative wants the Advance Party to continue. We are also satisfied that the requirement for access to teacher training has become more stringent. Clear demands and efforts on the teaching profession, as we have done, are a good reform of trust. We see that the measures we have put in place are starting to produce results. More will be teachers, the absence goes down, the dropout sinks, and we see that the students learn more. A government with the Progress Party must ensure that these measurable good school measures are continued so that we can get an even better school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2558	Together with the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, the Centre Party has promoted several concrete proposals for a reform of trust in the school. The objective paragraph of the Training Act brings together 13 years of schooling in Norway with general principles. In extending this, our proposal for a representative promises the basic idea that: the main development work in the school takes place in each school; Involvement of pupils and teachers improves school-related decisions trust management must be the basis for school management; Below, we add to the principles that: fewer and clearer objectives reflecting the broad social mandate of the school must be put in place participation and trust must be based on: the community and responsibilities of the professional must be clarified; We are promoting this in order to ensure students' prerequisites for a good life – with creative, committed and explored. The objective paragraph also states that the students have the right to participate. Working to promote this through our proposals here today should not be controversial. At the same time, government parties make this seem peculiarly controversial. The political parties probably perceive differently what is good school management, and what frameworks must be in place. The Centre Party believes that good administrative, political and professional management assumes that it is clear who has authority and responsibility in different situations. The big thing, like the government, must also be conscious of its roles. The government parties today reject our proposals, but promote proposals that deal with the same issues that we are asking questions about. State councils have already, while this matter has gone into the committee, breathed life into their efforts against time thieves in school and to reduce the level of compulsory testing in primary school. This just indicates that the Central Party, the Labour Party and the SV are putting on the agenda are real topics for debate. We are also given clear signals from teachers, principals and school leaders across the country. There was a broad consensus in Stortinget about starting work on the innovation. This involves lifting every stone in the school and weighing stone by stone, learning objectives for learning objectives. In this context, it is most relevant to assess the training law, the working conditions of the teachers, the quality assessment system, monitoring and examinations, as well as reporting and documentation requirements. All of this constitutes the framework for the school, along with the curriculum. This is determined by political leadership and framework. The rest we leave to professionals and local populace. The centre party, the Labour Party and SV wanted to sail for full sail where we are the direction of the wind for this matter: the need for increased confidence in the sector. On the other hand, the Right Party of Advancement, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party will continue with the wind machine they have set for their goal-bearing sail, which does not lead us to where we want to go. In the latest edition of the journal School Manager we can read about the trust investigation in Sweden, which recognises the need for mutual trust between actors. Furthermore, international school research states that: «if the principal and teachers develop mutual trust and build trust relations with students and supervisors, the learning of students is also strengthened». Trust is not unlimited freedom, but a clear understanding of authority and responsibility. There must be a link between the availability of time and resources and the expectations set. Section 9 A-5 of the Training Act on Infringement Activity has been the subject of debate, and Federal Head Stig Johannessen of the School Leaders' Association expresses the expectation that legislative authority will clear aside any doubts relating to the paragraph. This is one of several issues that show that there is a need to look at the Training Act. Teacher after teacher calls out for warning about the development of the school. Fewer teachers still have confidence in the system, while leaders have to make increasingly tougher priorities. The fact that more and more people are calling for the students and the subject to drown in packaging, demands and documentation shows that we do not have sufficient confidence. It is a pity that all our proposals today do not have a majority. Fortunately, the stones have begun to roll, and the discussion of trust will continue. I look forward to further debate. I look forward to further working for increased trust in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2605	I'm sorry for the delay. Norwegian school should be characterized by confidence in teacher prosthesis, in the principals and in the school owners. Trust cannot be made in the Storting because it must be demonstrated by concrete actions, and it allows the parties in cooperation to find good solutions and good mutual relations. Learning is not a quick fix. Therefore, the professional shall have the ability and responsibility to exercise judgement on complex issues. This is evident in the overall section. It obliges the school owners, and it obliges the school managers to do so. There is no doubt that when we now introduce a five-year master's degree and triple the number of teachers who receive continuing education, the teacher's profession must also experience that they have a large professional working space in their everyday lives. Norwegian school is best served when teachers jointly reflect on and develop pedagogics and education, adapted to each student. The government, together with the Christian People's Party, has taken this seriously. The right does not need to launch the word ‘reform’ in order to show action when we are already in the process of implementing concrete measures that we are implementing and which we are strengthening. We have taken the initiative on one of the most important and major upheavals in School-Norway since the promise of knowledge, namely the trade renewal. All curricula are to be renewed and new curricula are to be created from time to time by the teachers. Professional renewal is an incredibly important promise of trust, because it includes: shall ensure that teachers have greater scope for action to vary their teaching. We are also in the process of revising the Training Act and simplifying laws and regulations. One of the objectives is to reduce the time thieves experienced by teachers and schools today. We take it seriously when teachers and schools tell about more reporting requirements in the last 10–15 years. Many people feel that time doesn't go by, that they have a bad conscience for the students they can't help. Since 2013, we have simplified and removed a number of national requirements, but many of the requirements we also know come from the municipalities, they come from the school owners. Today, therefore, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are crystal clear: we must take the initiative that all municipalities review their reporting and documentation plans. We're about to start. There has been some confusion in this process about what the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre really mean by a trust reform. First of all, it is rather alarming that neither the Workers' Party, the SV nor the Centre have a single proposal for a reporting requirement they wish to remove, a single proposal for what they will change in the national quality assessment system, or a single proposal for how the municipalities and county councils should contribute to the elimination of their unnecessary reporting requirements. It is also paradoxical that the proposal comes from the Workers' Party, which recently decided in this Chamber that all Norwegian, math and English teachers must spend 60 minutes of their teaching time on physical, active tasks, regardless of whether they believe it makes sense in their professional judgement. But what has perhaps been most confusing, not only for the Right, but also for the actors who have made the consultation, is point 4 of the proposal for a representative, to amend the Training Act to strengthen the decision-making power of the teachers. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party write that the aim is to reduce the political interference in school. Today, municipalities have governance obligations and governance rights. As part of that right, they may introduce their own local screening tests. They can, for example, decide that teachers shall use 60 minutes for physical activity. And yes, we have some school owners who are very passive, while others may be managing detail in an unwise way. It's not illegal, but it's frustrating for teacher prophecy and for the schools. This is why the Right has been very concerned about strengthening the school owners’ competence and governance dialogue, in cooperation with the KS and the Education Association. On the other hand, we are sceptical about using the Education Act to depolitize school, because there are still very big differences in what a student learns, from what school he attends, what class he attends, and what municipality he lives in. We need more active and professional school owners who support the teacher's educational work and responsibility. I notice that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre changed their proposal during the process, and that they no longer want teachers to have greater decision-making power. It is a moderation, but it is difficult to understand how to solve some of the challenges that proposers otherwise point to, namely political interference. Had I not known better, it would have seemed a bit as if the proposers were trying to ride two horses at the same time. The majority today are very clear that teachers should have a large professional room for action. We're going to complete a high level of trust in school through trade renewal, and we're going to continue to reduce the time spent on unnecessary reporting, so that teachers can give priority to what's most important, that's to follow up each student. Trust is built on stone between the actors in School-Norway, and we want to strengthen teacher prophecy and the professional community between teachers and local democracy. That's what we do in our school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2633	The teacher needs more time for each student. It would have created a better learning environment, and it would have created more learning. I thought that all of us sitting in this room could have agreed, because a good school requires that qualified teachers and other adults be given time and confidence to follow up each individual student and to organize the teaching so that students can learn the way they learn the best. Trust reform should primarily ensure that all children and young people learn more, succeed and thrive, and facilitate a broad knowledge view of the school. To achieve this goal, we need a trust reform in school now. In the consultation round, the teachers' organisations have given us an idea of how they think we could have got this: ‘We believe that the time is ripe for Norwegian teachers to carry out their job and community tasks without a rigid control system. will point to the comprehensive target and result management coming from above and strangling good practice in the classroom.» [[...]] I repeat: ‘suffocate the good practice in the classroom’. And on the other hand, «Norwegian teachers want to be good professionals, but then they must have confidence and freedom of action to do their work by using good and varied methodology, instead of dealing with ever-increasing new requirements.» This was two of the recordings. Even I have a friend who works at Bøstad School in Lofoten. She describes the situation this way: I feel like I'm standing on a tennis court and the machine that serves balls has gone completely amok. I don't have a chance to accept all the balls, and I don't know which ball I'm going to give priority to, and which ball is important. I believe that this is three important input we in this room have to take seriously. Several instances have also pointed to the need for clear signals from the Stortinget now, among others. the need for a thorough review of the change of the quality assessment system and the examination system. This cannot wait until after the union renewal, as the government parties and the Christian People's Party propose as an escape route for themselves. The quality assessment system and the examination system are comprehensive and interfere with the entire school’s functioning, and cannot be isolated to cover only the subject of professional renewal. The way in which these systems are structured today provides very strong guidance on what they are taught, and what to give priority to — far more than the objectives of the curriculum do. That is precisely why we cannot sit and wait for the renewal to be completed before we start this important work. When the evaluation of the Knowledge promise shows that the school has become theorized and the education for one-sided, when students and teachers report that the knowledge view has become too narrow, when doctors and researchers warn of an increasing number of students with stress-related diseases because of the performance requirements and all the testing in school, when teachers, after all, who possess the skills and know their students, cannot teach the students as they seem to be at the best of the students, when bureaucracy and reporting steal time from the primary school assignment, which is the education of the students – yes, then the Stortinget cannot sit still in the boat and hope that the storm goes over, for that is not how we can have it in Norwegian school. For this reason, SV has proposed a trust reform in school on several occasions. And not without reason, like students, teachers and school leaders, did I have high expectations that the Stortinget would now be behind some of the suggestions that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are promoting. Unfortunately, this is not how it is, but I say as the representative Knutsdatter Strand: we never give in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2665	The representative’s proposal points to some aspects of Norwegian education policy that it is worth paying attention to. The Christian People's Party shares the concerns and objectives of the proposers of freedom and trust in teachers. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have carefully evaluated the proposals and incorporated some of them with slightly changed wordings. That's the content and what these will result from change, which has been our focus, not what the headline case has. I want to use my post to support the Christian People's Party's positions on this matter and to convey views on the direction in which we want to develop Norwegian school. Feedback from teachers and other actors in the school sector has long been about law and regulation being too detailed and leading to increased documentation and reporting requirements in each school. The professional area of action of the teacher has changed over time — from the role of Bård schoolmaster as a versatile intermediary and cultural carrier to that of school historian Alfred Oftedal Telhaug as a more instrumental consideration, where the teacher is first and foremost understood as an expert on the technical aspects of the teaching process. If we are to secure the recruitment ahead, we need to clarify the professional space for action that the teacher should have, in a way that can create authoritative and competent teachers. It's about solid professional and pedagogical education, but it's also about letting the teacher be a teacher in front of the student. In this clean-up and preparation work, it is necessary to focus on a reduction of reporting and documentation requirements at both national and local level. This is a review of the Christian People's Party together with the government parties believes that should be carried out in cooperation with the parties. The need for documentation and monitoring needs to be legitimised by the extent to which these provide individual students with the assistance they or they need. The fact that national and local authorities also provide a basis for assessing school developments in order to put in place relevant measures is self-evident, but it is essential to avoid the overall extent of the student’s learning and school’s own work on quality development or reducing the teacher’s professional space for action. This issue is not only about quantity but also about the use of comparative studies and surveys. While school is about the development of the whole human being, not just the sum of skills in the individual subject, most of these studies only measure parts of the whole. If individual studies are used in such a way as to tell the truth about the whole school, and in the next round as a basis for school changes, they become a tool for improvement, a basis for misinterpretation and misunderstandings. In Stortinget’s work, the government is asked to do so in order to reduce the scope, knowledge is also important in order to raise awareness of critical use of the studies — how they are interpreted and how they are used. Education and education are about developing whole people. Then one must not end up with daunting simplifications of complicated aggregates because some pieces of the whole are easy to quantify. A school that reduces the scope of reporting and documentation will also help to increase the scope for the teacher. It will give greater room for the authoritative teacher, who can use his or her professional and pedagogical discretion in meeting with the individual student. It's in such a direction the Christian People's Party wants to change school. If there is a need to make changes to the Training Act in order to build up such an understanding of the teaching role, we expect, of course, that the government, on the basis of today’s decisions, will contribute to it. The review of the national quality assessment system is necessary and important in the process of innovation. It will include the examination system, but also the entire system to be used for measuring and assessing quality in Norwegian schools. This is a work to be done by reducing a sample where the parties in the school sector are represented. The results of such a review must of course be reflected in proposals for amendments. In this work, too, it should be important, in the view of the Christian People's Party, to keep an eye on the teacher's place of action and not least the student's best, where the overall objective of the school is taken into account. The quality assessment system has to be much more daring to ask to what extent the school's purpose paragraph and overall objective are reflected through the quality assessment system. How should the overall objectives and values of the school be reflected through the assessment system chosen? The Christian People's Party is looking forward to a thorough review in the light of these overall objectives and innovations, where you take with you the experience of those who wear the shoe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2682	In the school’s ‘basic law’, the overall section summarises the complexity of the school and the crucial importance of the teachers for the learning and development of the students as follows: ‘They must constantly make strenuous comparisons between the individual student’s concerns and the community’s concerns, between supporting and making demands, between everyday school life here and now and preparing for the future. All students are different, and what is best for the student is a core question in all training. This question needs to be answered again every day by all those working in school.» The question of trust is therefore important. Trust in the school must be a matter of trust in the whole system: the municipality as a school owner, the school principals and the individual teacher. Together, they have a shared responsibility for developing quality in school, and they need to be given confidence and space to find the right solutions. In the ‘Overall Part — Values and Principles of Initial Training’, the government has underlined the teacher’s professional room for action. There are also compelling reasons for school leaders to build trust. They need to understand the challenges that teachers and other employees face, and to manage them wisely and clearly. Trust must not be confused with not setting quality and performance requirements. Teachers, school leaders and school owners have a responsibility together to provide the students with the training they need and demand, and to follow up the legislation. There are still too many students who go through large parts of school without getting a good enough follow-up. We have to work continuously to ensure that students do not get hung up on, and early efforts are a keyword. The quality assessment system is not an expression of distrust. Knowledge of learning outcomes and the learning environment is useful for teachers, schools and school owners. The quality assessment system provides schools with a wide range of information, but we do not collect information for our own part. It's for today's and tomorrow's students we need good quality in school. The quality assessment system enables us to discuss challenges and solutions in Norwegian schools — in each class, school, municipality and nationally. We closely monitor how the quality assessment system works and make adjustments when needed. Now, we want to do the screening tests at the first reading and billing for voluntary tests. The aim of the conversion is for the tests to be a better tool for the teacher and the school to precisely discover the students who are struggling so that they can receive extra support. We're not going to have reports for the sake of the reports or tests for the sake of the tests. We must constantly balance the need for information with the overall burden of reporting. In recent years, the government has been working to eliminate the so-called time thieves in school, and we have made several changes at national level. We have come a long way, but there is a need for reinforced and renewed efforts. I have therefore taken the initiative to renew my efforts. At the same time, we know that many of the time thieves are local. It is important that at all levels we ask ourselves the question of what is the purpose of the measures, whether we need documentation, and what we are going to use it for. We, both government and big business, have to recognize that school life is full of complicated educational questions. Therefore, we need to show restraint in new school regulations and detailed management. I don't think we can achieve trust through a reform where national authorities place restrictions on the action rooms of local authorities. Trust cannot be adopted; it must be demonstrated by concrete action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2704	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2710	The Working Party, the Centre Party and SV want the Stortinget to provide for a reduction in reporting and bureaucracy. The purpose of our proposal is more time for learning and more confidence in the teachers. Therefore, it is essential that a trust reform is about teaching prophecy. In the government parties and the Christian People's Party's proposal for a decision, this has turned a little upside down. Now it is not the teachers' room for action that is important, but to strengthen the ‘school-owner’s room of action’. The head of the Education Association said it was really very good – I quote: ‘This is more similar to a trust reform aimed at the school owner than to the teacher’s prophecy.’ This was after he had seen the setting from Stortinget. The government today is voting against a trust reform for the teachers. That's too bad. Why, though, does the Council of State think it is more important to reform their trust towards the school owners than it does toward the teacher's prophecy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2722	In my article, I stressed that we have to show trust in the whole system. We don't want passive school owners; we want active school owners who are committed to contributing to a good learning environment that supports the school and the teachers. We believe that there should be great trust in the teachers. In the overall section, which I also referred to, trust in the teacher's prophecy is underlined. What surprises me is that the Workers' Party is talking about trust in the teacher, but continues with detail management from the state. The Labour Party has made several proposals in Stortinget which contribute to more detailed management, including: suggestions for one hour of physical activity. We must show confidence in the entire school system, in the school owners and in the individual teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2729	Yes, it is tempting to ask what a men's talk will mean in the setting of detailed governance, but I believe that the Council of State should do more precisely what teachers and students want to do, in order to achieve this: get a review of the quality assessment system, as we propose in the case. In the notes, the right-wing parties say that one should look at the quality assessment system, but after new curricula are in place. At the same time, we see that the Council of State proposed this weekend in the media some minor adjustments, which the Federation of Education has called cosmetic changes. I think it is quite clear that the government here feels pressured by the proposal that we have made, but it is a pity that when one admits that one needs to make changes to the quality assessment system, one lands on the wrong side and rejects the important proposal for a complete discussion and review. I want to ask the council again, because now he has an opportunity to do something concretely important like the teachers and the students asking: what is this disgust against or fear of doing what the teachers and the students themselves want to do, and take this whole review?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2738	I can reassure the representative that my decisions are not a response to the proposals on the left here in Stortinget. They are a consequence of thorough professional assessments in the Education Directorate, where the aim is to get better monitoring tools, so that we can help the children who don't break the reading code. It is my concern that children and young people should go through primary school without being able to read, write and calculate properly. That's why we're doing conversions. There is no response to suggestions from the left here in Stortinget. We are now implementing an important renewal of the entire school through the trade renewal. We're going to get new curricula in place. We are also going to follow up the proposals that are being adopted in the Stortinge today, but we are going to take this in order, we are going to contribute to a renewal and make sure that we build good teams around the students and raise those who are going to be hanging after.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2745	It is of course important that a government council listens to its own trades union directorate – and underlines it in Stortinget. But it is also important to listen to the schools, and one in four teachers say that they believe they have received orders that are not in line with what they professionally would have recommended in their profession. One in three teachers says that reporting and documentation requirements have increased significantly in recent years, and it also needs to be taken seriously. The only proposal for a decision on which the Committee stands today is for a request from the government to examine whether it is such that target requirements and performance requirements may be used in employment agreements for school principals and principals. That's serious if that's the case. My question to the Council of State is quite simply: if such a study, which the department now has to carry out, were it to show that the kind of requirements in employment agreements are used for school managers, would there be any consequences? Will the government ensure that this cannot happen and that it cannot have consequences for the pay and school economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2752	Here, the majority in the European Parliament has gathered behind a proposal for a decision which I think is entirely right, namely that we should examine whether this is a reality and what its consequences are. However, it is not that the government – or I as the Council of State – in this case can try out school owners. I'm not aware that this is happening, but we're going to investigate it and especially look at how it stands up to the overall part of the curriculum.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2759	I became a little uncertain about what the Council of State really meant by that. So he said that Roman number decisions are a sensible proposal, and we all think it makes sense to get this mapped out. There are also many of us who have heard about these types of examples. But when the Council of State takes on a reservation related to what he or the government can do, does it mean that the Council of State believes that it would be okay to have employment agreements with principals and principals in Norwegian school where the target requirements and performance requirements for students are governing both the possible salary of principals and perhaps the school's economy? Does the Council of State really think that there is a good practice in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2764	It would be quite alarming if the Council of State had made a statement on something we do not know about today is a problem. I think it's right that we're following what the Storting is about. First we investigate whether this is a problem, and if this is a reality in some municipalities, I will comment on it, and then I will also come back to Stortinget to see how we can follow it up. In this discussion about what the left side thinks are problems in school, it is also possible to rejoice that a lot is going in the right direction in Norwegian school. The students learn more, they are more present, and never before have there been more who complete high school. We see that some of the students who have the weakest starting point are the ones who take the most credit. It shows that there is much that is done correctly, both nationally, by local school owners and not least by teachers in Norwegian classrooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2771	The leader of the Education Association called this whole setting that we are discussing today, discouraging reading: «The entire trust reform, as a general idea, is gone. The concept no longer exists in the decision-making process. It's a shame because a trust reform that we saw in the opposition's proposals will provide a better school for our students." This says Steffen Handal, who is the head of the Education Association. This must be a depressing sentence for the Minister of Knowledge to get from 175 000 Norwegian teachers and school leaders who are organized by the Education Association. What will the minister say to them today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2783	First of all, I want to thank the teachers for the amazing effort they make every day. Teachers go to work every day to raise children and young people, and they achieve amazing results. I showed in the previous line that the students are more in school, they learn more, and more are completing high school. We now see – this may be the first time – that we are able to lift some of the students who have been hanging after. Teachers shall be recognised for this. It is not that a blue-green government jumps when the left side of Norwegian policy promotes proposals in Stortinget. We carry out what we call a reform of trust and responsibility. We're concerned about trusting the school owners and teachers, but it can't be trusted without demands for results. Therefore, trust and responsibility must be linked. That is why we are implementing a renewal of the school. This implies increased trust, but also demands for results.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2790	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2798	Both in Norway and internationally, one of the most obvious measures to ensure quality in education is to focus more on professionalism and professionalisation, and the teaching profession is a profession. The right-hand side, which would like to talk about strengthening the profession, should note that what distinguishes professionals as a profession, is that they have an autonomy in the performance of their duties. Professions are to some extent autonomous, and what typically governs them in the job is expertise and professional ethics. Teachers' Profession is a profession which is also part of State social governance. Then it is important that we who are in this assembly are aware that the school is not any government tool for the state. A purely instrumental understanding of the school as an instrument for achieving public objectives and implementing public policies is misguided. The school is not a production company where stronger management and tighter control, standardisation and evaluation are the answer to all challenges. Developments in school have gone too far in the wrong direction. We who are elected to the people must take responsibility for turning it around. The teachers have said clearly from the beginning. I have previously quoted from this pulpit lecturer Anne Grønlie, who in the autumn became the spokesperson of a Teacher Norway who wants to reverse a development where students are regarded as measurable numbers and the teachers feel detailed and controlled. Teachers are measured on all tasks, from preparation to implementation, assessment and communication with the students. They experience that impositions, demands and expectations are growing in line with teaching hours and student numbers. If Norwegian school continues in the same direction, it will be difficult to both recruit and retain teachers. The Labour Party will have a trust reform in the school, with fewer demands for testing and monitoring and more confidence in the teacher's professional choices. We are proposing a set of concrete measures that would contribute to this – that is, not relying on the paper, but concrete measures to give more of the professional space for action back to the teacher. Time is overdue, but the government parties are against it. What they come with instead is vague and non-committal. That seems to be the sin of the Workers' Party. ‘Accept for Professional Action Room’ was one of the recommendations of the Expert Group appointed by the Government in 2015 to develop the teaching role. The government should take that recommendation seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2819	Trust can't be established, it's something you build up over time. Today, when we are dealing with a proposal for a representative on a reform of trust, it may be good to remember that, because words and actions by the proposers are not always linked. At one moment, the teacher should be released and unnecessary tests and reports removed; at the next, one is willing to conduct detailed methodology and introduce several mandatory child-care screening tests to mention something. Physical activity and a reading, writing and calculating guarantee are affordable, but the intentions of the representative’s proposal are poor – which can be better solved in other ways. Here we are at the heart of the question of trust. We simply have to be careful that the sum of all good measures does not end up with something we are opposed to. We have to see the whole thing. In poor school-leading municipalities, lack of such a whole will lead to poor conditions for building good professional cultures in each school. Trust in teaching and good school management is central to the Right and Government. For this reason, we have also wholeheartedly supported the renewal of the profession, strongly encouraged teachers to have the best prerequisites for being good professionals, and increased efforts for further education, such as the rector’s school, and supported under the KS school owner’s programme. I fear passive school owners more than active, because it is the latter who usually find the balance. Indeed, reporting, writing requirements, development programmes, various days of activity and the requirements of parents and the media can eat of it all, the most important thing a teacher should do, namely to teach the students. Already, we have contributed by removing national documentation requirements for in-flight assessment, simplifying the evaluation code and doing screening tests at secondary school on a voluntary basis — to mention something. We'll follow up on it. Some of these can be solved by using new tools. Smart learning materials can provide more adapted training, but also free up educational capacity. Next autumn, a new school administration system is being set up to replace ten old and immature data solutions. We simplify, automate and communicate seamlessly with management, teachers, parents and students. Once the major conversion has been completed, there will be great savings in time. Not least, it also opens up new opportunities. We have to remember that one of the most important things we can do for a trust commitment in school is to say no to all the good actions that need space, while clearly saying yes to several professional groups that build a team around the student. That's how we relieve, build trust across professionals and create a team at school that lifts the student. The initiative in recent years, including: 1 billion. kr for more school health service, is an example that we build up under this whole idea. Now we're going to go into special education. Our trust promise is in progress, and – not least – words are linked to action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2834	The favourite mantra of the blue-blue government and the right-hand side is that everyone else is just busy with money, while they're busy with content. I saw the Prime Minister today just saying that, for the Supreme Central Government, everyone else is just busy with money. But when we put forward a proposal that deals with just system and organization, and not necessarily heads and ears, yes, then it's also going to be wrong. Because then the representative told Steffensen that we were closing open doors. But we just think that a discussion about system and organization is incredibly important in terms of today's school. And to make it pretty simple – I don't have so many strangers to deal with: there are two major problems in today's school, which are increasing, and which we have to deal with. One is that there are too many reporting and documentation requirements. It takes too much time. It takes time that should have been used for learning and for professional development. The second is that there are too many tests, there are too many performance requirements, there are too many attempts at smiley and sour faces all the way down to the earliest class steps in primary school. And that's the kind of regime we don't want in Norwegian school, and that today's proposal is also a little bit about. So I have to say that I don't know if it's to try to trace the debate that Right sees ghosts on the headlights of the day in such a case. In any case, I feel that the case rapporteur here is trying to construct conflicts that do not exist. I thought that I had to go through the weekend, word for word, both the proposal and the vote to see if the case rapporteur has any evidence of what she says about what is in the vote by the majority. But there's not a single word about moving legal decision-making authority from local communities and municipalities down to the individual teacher. On the contrary, it says that we want to clarify the relationship between the different decision-making levels, and I think that is a great need. For the representative of Tybring-Gjedde, it can be interpreted as quite right that the municipalities impose a kind of monitoring, target requirements and performance management, that it is entirely unproblematic and should not be up to debate at all, but it should, because it is precisely stealing time from what is professionally important. It is then possible for us to recognise that the original proposal could give rise to minor misunderstandings – not to the extent that the Right has now done, but to minor misunderstandings. But then one must also be happy and satisfied that one has a committee procedure and an attitude, and that one has the opportunity to clarify the proposal in a way that I hope all will be satisfied with. I think it's very important that all parts of Norwegian school take this seriously, whether it's state, municipality or individual school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2845	The proposal for a trust reform in school has been launched as new thinking, where the opposition parties appear to be indebted to teachers, while the government parties, according to the opposition, are only concerned with managing the schools in detail. I have to admit that some of the media plays in that regard have mostly led to head-on disbelief and a fascination that it is possible to distinguish them so to the degrees of thought and action. Trust reform in the public sector is not new, but is described as the reform that will follow the New Public Management management. Denmark was out of trust reforms in 2013, but their experience is not only positive, and it is still unclear to what extent they have or will be implemented. The fate of reforms at national level has become more unclear since last year’s Social Democratic Government presented a good employer policy plan that seems to require more results and control than just trust. And it's perhaps the proposalers' definition of trust that's hard to understand, as it seems to imply letting the state, via Stortinget, govern detail. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Left and the Progressive Party think it is a great paradox that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV propose a trust reform in Norwegian school only a few months after they proposed on the Stortinget to teachers in 1–10. class must use 60 minutes of its instruction for physical activity each day. Similarly, representatives from the Workers' Party and SV have recently gone high on the track to abolish homework in school. Do they not trust that the schools can decide for themselves? It is within the school's mandate. The concept of trust has become the new mantra both in the public sector and in the business world in recent years. But it gets thinly worn when it's not followed up with action. The majority of adults have already decided that the responsibility and professional judgement of teachers and schools are to be taken into account in the choice of methods and instruments used in education to achieve the objectives of competence and to fulfil the general social mandate of the school. Increased trust, responsibility and professional room for action for the teaching profession are a supporting element both in the process of professional renewal and in the revision of the training law. I can see that someone thinks that such a reform of trust is an intrusive thought. But when you see which policies – and not just rhetoric – these parties run, you shouldn't hope too much. To that end, the detail control lever is too big. It becomes very clear when we fight against their ringing regime to give the municipalities more autonomy, while they claim that the funds have to be earmarked because they do not trust the municipalities to use the funds as they will be used. Did anyone talk about trust?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2858	It is proposed from a single committee today that the government examine the extent to which student performance is used in employment agreements with school directors and principals. I am pleased that we all agree on this, and the background to this proposal is that we have been informed that this type of employment agreement is being used in some municipalities. This is a practice that we in the Christian People's Party believe it is important to examine, given the extent of it, and given the consequences of such a way of thinking school up against the overall objectives of the curriculum. In the view of the Christian People's Party, this type of agreement will only be linked to parts of the school's objective, while other important parts of this overall objective will never be able to be captured solely by the results that students achieve. We're well aware that student outcomes are the result of a wide range of relationships, which don't always have to be related to school qualities, for example. the socio-economic background of parents. To the extent that the study shows that these types of management agreements are practised, and exist, it is important, in the view of the Christian People's Party, that clear signals are given from school owners – and from the government – that such agreements do not contribute to the overall objective of the school and should therefore be discontinued in the form in which they might be in. The Christian People's Party has chosen to promote the proposals, together with the government parties, which we believe contribute to the development of the school, ensures the teacher's room for action, reduces the scope of reporting and contributes to a review of the quality assessment system in the light of the innovation. This is an important part of the school’s activities that promote the school’s overall and overall objectives by stressing and further developing school-based approaches, which provide a better school for each student and strengthen confidence among school sector actors. It has been expressed by disappointment from parts of the opposition today that we do not agree with all the proposals in the draft representative. With the capacity to obtain a majority today, proposers have been able to focus on and contribute to changing important aspects relating to the scope of documentation, the review of the quality assessment system and, where appropriate, proposals for new practices, and any practices developed in relation to linking management agreements to student outcomes and measurable conditions. The sum of this is to ring the teacher's professional space of action – in my opinion, an important contribution to creating powerful and competent teachers who can each day exercise their professional judgement in meeting the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2873	At the top of the post, it was earlier today that you can't decide on trust. Now I hear that the right parties in the hall today repeat it over and over again, and to me it seems most like an excuse to vote against the trust reform in the hall today. Trust cannot be adopted, but measures can be adopted that help build confidence over time, build trust between groups and have good processes. A trust reform is a start, it's a signal, and it's a strong political intention to change the course to a more trust-based school management, a management that gives the professionals greater responsibility to develop the school for the benefit of students' learning and well-being. When we propose a reform of trust, it is both in the light of the teachers' own experience, clear advice from education research and our own decisions here in Stortinget. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party could be involved in the discussion, filled a trust reform with content, but chooses to vote it down. That's a shame, because a trust reform is about leading from the middle – leading from the middle, as the educational researchers Hargraaves & Shirley write about. Trusting in the teaching profession would give freedom, but also increased responsibility. Teachers shall have the freedom to carry out a specific purpose, the school's overall mission, as set out in the law. Trust reform does not mean that politicians do not rule; it means that politicians have to manage smarter – manage through trust rather than more testing, control and measurement. Today, the Right says they're crystal clear. No, they're not. They vote against the proposal for trust reform and make their own proposals that are vague and non-binding. Where the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre will terminate employment agreements containing detailed target requirements related to student outcomes, the Government Parties will ‘examine’ them. It's guard. Where the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre will ensure that reporting and control are reduced in order to safeguard the teacher's time and space of action, which is concrete, the government parties will continue to reduce, which is non-committal — and not in line with the reality of the teachers out there. And so they have that intention of strengthening the local acting space of the school owner. The reference to the time and space of the teachers is gone. It is almost parochial how unobligatory and vigilant the one decision that is being taken today is that the government is asked to ensure that the work on the renewal of the trade union and training law is carried out in line with the overall part. When did the Stortinget – with the exception of major urgent matters such as the ambulance aircraft case and others – begin to decide that the Minister of Knowledge or other government councils should comply with the law and regulations, which are what the government parties propose today? We take it as a matter of course that the minister of knowledge follows his general part, his own rule. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2890	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2895	The need for a trust reform in the Norwegian school is well documented, and the importance of this discussion is quite simple. We must help teachers to spend most of their time on core tasks: teaching, assessment and planning of teaching. I miss one in this debate talking about the students, because we want a trust reform in Norwegian school because it will do the students well. Students should experience less testing; students should be assured that they have confidence in the teachers. When students experience a lot of testing, acidic face, smiley faces, self-evaluations from them are tiny, many elephants in Norwegian school can feel like maestros and make them feel that they are not good enough in relation to the others, nor in relation to themselves. The time-use selection in 2009 pointed to different actions that can be implemented at all levels, which will be important for teachers to concentrate on what is at the core of the school. Good guidance was given, time to core tasks, lack of reform, the need to reduce the number of national action plans and strategies, the need to assess the time implications for teachers, less evidence and the need for other professional groups to come in to relieve teachers: These recommendations are equally relevant today. Both are in the configuration and are told by the Chair here that the proposers themselves do not come up with suggestions on how to reduce reporting. I would like to remind you of Amendment No 8. 8:15 S from 2014 to 2015, a central party representative proposal to change the system of national tests and reduce school testing. It was suggested that national tests be converted into selection tests, and asked the government to ensure that the collection of reporting and documentation requirements in the school is reduced. We propose to the government to propose that local monitoring and documentation requirements cannot be imposed in addition to those required by the Training Act. All of these suggestions were downgraded, only SV supports the Central Party at that time. Now I see that we have a larger number in Stortinget that supports it. Finally, I thought someone had to talk about the culture of speech in the school. It has been a big debate this year on the culture of expression – and lack of culture of expression – in the school. One can at all costs not get to a trust reform in school if one does not get a school where one has a culture of openness, and where it is not only allowed, but where one is encouraged, to speak about any critical circumstances and everything that will change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2908	All of us have experience through school, as students themselves, as parents of children who have gone to school or go to school, perhaps also grandchildren, and perhaps we have both good and less good experiences. With this background, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are promoting proposals for a trust reform – there are various feedbacks from students, teachers and school owners on how the school works. This proposal is intended to make the school even better – not only for the school owners, but also, as has been said here, for the students, so that they learn better. This is about having trust-based management, where you have a good cooperation with the school owner, with organisations and not least with employees at school. When you experience trust and respect, you will usually do more and be more motivated for the job. If the mechanisms of trust-based management work, we get more innovation, less bureaucracy and better training for students – that is, the opposite of what Gudmundsen says here, that we take away the focus on education. This proposal focuses on teaching, the very opposite, and it is important for us to clarify. When the government parties now vote down the main handles, I think it's a little boring. I think everyone is concerned about having a better school, and all the suggestions here could almost all join if we had different roles in position and opposition. In the dialogues we have had with the Education Association and other organisations, everyone agrees that we need to take new steps to make school better, to give teachers better time to take care of the students, and not least to support students who require more follow-up in the future. When we talk about party collaboration and party-consolidated selections, we have good experience. The Norwegian welfare model deals with, inter alia: on how to reduce societal and organisational sample sizes in order to be able to cooperate even better. We've done that over time because we have respect between these organizations. Respect for time also creates trust, and I think that when the Education Association points to this, we will listen to what the organisations say about it. That's why I think we should do it in a good way. Teachers' skills and experience are the foundation wall on which we must build. The teachers do a great job, and the teachers have to be presented even more. We are too poor to present important institutions, important organisations and not least employees who do a very good job every day. When I was at the Trade School in Rogaland last week, we talked about how to create trust between local businesses, school owners and teachers in order to be able to recruit better for professional courses of study and for vocational schools, the workers we need in the future. It's about trust-based management in all parts of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2917	Trust cannot be adopted, it is often repeated from today's position. The representative Tybring-Gyde is obviously, as she herself says, confused again. But what do the students say, what do the teachers say, and what do the principals say? Well, they're clear -- they don't want any more testing, checking and measurement. And to quote again the leader of the Federation of Education: the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV have ‘worked out many good principles and proposals for a more trust-based education policy’. I.e.: trust measures. That's what this is about. So instead of having the usual spinal reflexes immediately suggested by the opposition, I had a great hope that at least the recordings we got in the hearing would be listened to. There was also another reason why I had a hope, and there was a majority that we had in the previous harvest: ‘The majority believe that a trust reform should be developed in school in cooperation with the sector. We cannot build on control and mistrust, but we must develop a quality assessment system that promotes students' learning, which is based on trust and increases the professional space for action. The majority believe that national educational authorities need to facilitate transparent, trusting processes between relevant actors in the school sector, for example: teachers, school leaders, school owners and teacher training, in order to develop concrete and committed actions, which support professional development – and community.’ I cannot see that this has been followed up by the government, and in the meantime the Christian People's Party has changed sides. Now they're more concerned with securing the school owner's power and position – and what happens then? The teacher-profession room is further under pressure from municipal politicians and school administration, which will apply to schools programmes and methods that are not necessarily professionally assessed. So there's reason to be disappointed today on behalf of the teachers, the students and the principals. And I almost want to make a little dry comment: if you want to get something into this committee, you almost have to bet on the health committee doing their job, because we don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2932	Let me just say first that I believe that a debate on the system and the organization of the school is incredibly important. We are now discussing how to get the best possible interaction between all the actors in School-Norway in order to fulfil the school's broad societal mission. Then I hear the representative Henriksen say that this trust reform that is proposed is a signal and an intention that they would very much like the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party to fill with content. It's a good confession, it's just that we're already making a big promise of trust in the school sector through the renewal, through the evaluation and evaluation we now have of the Training Act, and not least through all the years we've had a great teacher's promise, where we've strengthened the teacher's profession and the professional communities. Then I hear representative Arnstad say that now it is clear what the proposal really was – to change the training law. But then the representative of Fagerås comes up and says that they still want to forbid the school owner from making professional arrangements for the schools and the teachers. It's not really going to work. In the proposal for a document 8, the proposers state that they wish to clarify in the training law ‘the competence and decision-making authority to be attached to the profession at school level’. The aim is to reduce political interference. The proposal states that the decision-making authority of the teachers will be strengthened. I would assume that it should be strengthened beyond the current situation, namely that the municipalities have the right to control. In the consultation round, it was not only the Right who did not understand the proposal. In addition, the CS delivered its consultation opinion, which would warn policy-makers against proposing changes – not because they do not trust the teachers, but because the policy-makers are stepping right into the local democratic space of action, a space of action they need to exercise their responsibilities as employers and as the primary responsibility. It was from the KS, it wasn't from the government parties. In the vote, the rapporteurs have now amended the proposal – to say that they just want to clarify. But it's still very uncertain what they want to prepare. Is it still possible for the municipalities as school owners to provide new local screening tests? Should they be able to make the decision that the Workers' Party would like to make here, namely to introduce 60 minutes of physical activity? What decision-making authority do they believe the municipalities should continue to have? I believe that the most important thing we can do for municipalities to become better school owners, and in order to avoid detailed management, is not to use the law as a tool, but to actually enhance school owners' skills through, for example, the use of the law. cooperation with KS, so that we get better school owners, who create good relations with their schools and with their teachers. So I will again challenge the proposers to clarify: what do they think the school owners should still have the authority to decide? What's going to be determined at school?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2945	Trust may be adopted. As several representatives are calling for, it is precisely to make clear demands for and clear objectives for the school as a form of trust. The professorship and the teachers want to be responsible for their students and their learning. Unfortunately, the amount of targets to be achieved, for this purpose, will be tested, corrected and given feedback. Appraisal for learning had a value up to both students, teachers, principals and school owners and municipalities, not least, began to swim and almost drowned in the assessment amount. When the assessment is further placed in the context of quality in school and politics, it forgets how many things affect the performance of a student. We're talking about children and young people in growth and development, who may learn as much about themselves and their bodies as they do. Learning is a non-linear maturation process. There must be a professional room for action for the turn that is in the everyday lives of students. The social mandate for the school is broader than being an institution for testing, ranking and competition. The school shall promote more values than the distinction between winners and losers. We will strengthen and definitely clarify the decision-making power of the teachers by removing any doubt as to what is in their responsibility. In recent times, there have been public debates on, among other things, what is happening. The Training Act § 9 A-5 is a clear signal that there is room for doubt that we have to dry up the discussion, also here in the Stortinget and also as a legislative authority, about what is in the Training Act. It is important to come back to the assessments made in the context of the review of the law, and we hope that it can be quite a hundred percent clear where what lies within the decision-making authority of the teachers, precisely to build trust, just to give the professional space that teachers today demand, which the teachers today do not think is there for us to be able to meet the needs of the students in the classroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2954	We all record that the Right again spends time attacking the Workers' Party rather than talking about their own policies and would rather fool that they are today voting against a trust reform. If you look at it a little bit, you can see that education is not about simple relationships, and that the trust to be built between school and society must be created in ways other than by actions that alone aim to achieve the scores that students will get on selected and standardised tests. In a study last year from Response Analysis, 75 pst responded. by teachers, i.e. three out of four teachers, that they spend more time on reporting and time thieves in 2017 than they did three years before. It was totally on the Right and the Guard of the Advance Party. The test system we have in school today, the quality assessment system – yes, it has positive aspects, but it's in everyone's interest that we actually take a critical review of it. We have to take care of a system of testing and control that, firstly, does not measure everything that is important; secondly, is a system that escalates and helps to control and override the everyday lives of teachers; and thirdly, a system that expresses distrust of the skilled teachers we have given confidence to do the job every day in Norwegian classrooms. The system we have today is not good enough, and it has to change. I am very pleased that we proposed that a sample should be set up where teacher-profession, school principals and the rest of the sector should be drawn to review and look at changes in the quality assessment system. The Minister of Knowledge play in the Evening Post on Saturday also shows the difference here in the entrance to the school policy between the opposition and the government. In fact, the Minister of Knowledge was able to present minimal changes in school testing and monitoring, while at the same time establishing, as the government parties also do in the setting, that today's system works, among other things. Exam. That shows the difference. Where we wanted to give the sector the opportunity to review and propose changes to the quality assessment system, the Minister of Knowledge is now submitting an insufficient system without proper anchoring of teachers and school leaders. I am very pleased that we raised this debate on trust reform, because then the debate will be moved. I've never heard so many Right-People talk so much about trust in the teacher before. I'm very pleased that the Ludvigsen Committee came. It was a correct one, among others. to the right-hand school policy, and the correctness they realized. In 2013, the Right went to the election to double the number of curriculum goals. The right was the choice for all teachers to write reports on all students in Norwegian, math, English and natural sciences. In the kindergarten message, they called for a dividend description and language standard — more monitoring and documentation. When you read the Jeløya platform, there is no single word about reducing school reporting, documentation and bureaucracy. This debate and this – hopefully – change of opinion had not come without that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2971	I am very happy that there is so much going well in Norwegian school. There are several who have mentioned much of what is done, that is done, and that is going well today, so I shall not repeat it, but just state that it is actually pleasant. I also agree with what I understand is the purpose of this proposal, and I also support the desire of the teachers for a greater professional space for action. I don't think anyone in this room is concerned that teachers and school leaders should have a good professional space for action, and that it doesn't seem important that we, as politicians, students, parents and society, have confidence in our teachers. We obviously only have a slightly different view of how we can best ensure it, and some may have a lack of recognition of what has already been adopted, started and under work, and which will actually help to strengthen the professional space of teachers and schools. I'd like to repeat some government councillor Sanner said a little earlier: ‘I don’t think we can achieve trust through a reform where national authorities place restrictions on the action rooms of local authorities.’ If I understood what the representative Arnstad said here a little earlier, she could not understand how anyone can interpret the comments of the left-hand side in this matter as an attempt to move management from the school owner down to the individual school. So the setting says: ‘These members indicate that this affects the very core of the question of trust in the vocational training of teachers, where teachers experience that leadership from school owners goes beyond the purely administrative management of schools and conflicts with the pedagogical assessments.’ Pure administrative management of the schools, that is. Maybe that's where we have a slightly different view of the role of the school owner. I believe that the school owner should be something more than a purely administrative governing body. Of course, local politicians should be concerned with both resource use, resource needs, learning environment, well-being and achievement of results in schools. I know that municipalities with active and committed school owners, local politicians, are some of the things that are being highlighted as a reason where there are good schools. Of course, it is important that we, both as big-scale politicians and as municipal politicians, are conscious of our roles and not collectively impose too many tests and tests. But that you can call what we already have today, a test hysteria – something I know the SV representative Mona Fagerås recently did in an interview – I don't understand. It's about a total of twelve exams in nine school years. But then we know that the experience is that it can be too much, and that's why I'm very happy that we're going to start a review with the municipalities about this. It was said about the quality assessment system that we don't want to look at it. I can reassure Mr Henriksen that today we are adopting a proposal that will do just that. We don't think everything is perfect. Finally, the Health Committee is doing the job. They force through the detailed management that SV does not want today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e2996	I have to say it is nice if one can help clarify and clarify what has been misunderstood. But when I hear the representatives Tybring-Gjedde and Kristensen, I wonder if they really want misunderstandings to be clarified and clarified. Tybring-Gjedde chooses to quote, but she chooses to stop in the middle of the sentence when she quotes. She quoted from the draft representative that ‘this could reduce political interference’, but it goes on to say, ‘in decisions that must be accepted as professional’. That's what the representative Tybring-Gjedde chooses not to take along, and that's exactly what our proposal is about, namely to clarify the professional and educational space for action. It must be allowed to point out. The representative proposal, which Kristensen raised, does not say that teachers should take over the tasks of municipalities in terms of professional assessments. It says: ‘The professional assessments of the quality and suitability of the teachers to strengthen their learning shall be weighted heavily before the school can be required to carry out tests, tests and surveys.’ It's actually something completely different. I have to say that I think they get to be precise when they're in the pulpit and try to put out about the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV's proposal. We've had examples that are serious. I think the example from 2014 from Sandefjord, where schools almost threatened teachers with dismissal if they did not implement a target management regime in the municipality, which de facto almost meant a snitching of characters, is quite good. It's an example of how not to do it. I think the editor Magne Lero in the weekly newspaper management writes something quite well, which we can all remember: ‘Politics should realise that teachers are better educators than themselves. Teachers have the best conditions to know what works best in school. It's not about teachers locking school doors and asking politicians to stay away. This is about politicians and teachers having to talk together about what works and what can be done to develop the best possible school. To three a system that the teachers have zero faith in down above their heads is incapacitated. That lesson should have been taught by the politicians in Sandefjord." After this debate, I would like to say that this lesson is important to all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3017	I think the representative Arnstad actually finished quite well, by pointing out how important it is to have conscious, active and good school owners, who in dialogue with their schools, school leaders and teachers – the professional community they represent – can be in the creation of active, good school owners who develop us, and who give the students a better place to be. That's also the whole point of the right. When we bet on the teachers, when we bet on the principals – with both continuing and continuing education, master education, skills requirements, principal schools and strengthening the middle managers – it is precisely to help build up under this professional community. However, what is being treated here today, which is written down in the form of a note, is to amend the Training Act. When you change a law, it's to do something about the legal responsibility that exists and that's defined, limited and impacted into it. Of course, it's pretty easy to become a little bit unsure of what is the intention of this. As the representative Arnstad had in mind – the professional and professional considerations must weigh heavily. Well, I still have the good thing to see that not very, very many of our school owners pay particular attention to the professional heavy when you're going to be a school owner. The question here is whether we're giving them a veto right, or whether we're going to have an interaction that ensures a balance. The point in my main post was: we need to have this interaction, we need to make good use of the school ownership role in such a way that both the resource effort and the decisions that a local government has to make through its responsibilities – absolutely necessary – are in contact with the teaching profession. It is a little difficult to grasp what is really the red-green course within this field. If we look back a little bit in time, we all know that a lot of work was done at the beginning of the 2000s, because you almost got shocked by how it really stood in Norwegian school. You had little knowledge, and you were very conscious of increasing this knowledge. That's why it was, among other things, a relatively broad majority, for example, of national tests, which we will of course develop and make the best possible. But when I hear the representative Toppe here reminds us of the representative proposal – which is supported by SV – that national tests should be removed, and when I hear the representative Martin Henriksen say that we need to have a review of the national quality assessment system, without mentioning one thing that should be done, some uncertainty about what is the course of the red-green school policy. I remember: A lot goes well in Norwegian school now. Of course, it can get better, but there's no doubt: we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3028	It has been interesting to listen to this debate – not least the many excuses from the majority why one cannot support a reform of trust. When the chairman of the committee, from the Progress Party, says that this is opening doors, I think it is a serious debatability of this important matter. And when the Christian People's Party's excuses about why you're not in, I think one might have earned to be a little bit more honest. Here one is voting against all the key elements of our trust reform. One from the Christian People's Party has been commendable in previous school debates. I think one had earned to be in this debate as well. Then I have to say that I was excited to see where the Right came to land here, because almost nobody has probably talked so much about our proposal of trust reform as the Right Representatives. But not surprisingly, they're landing to be against. As the Council of State admits, one is against our proposal most of all because it comes from us. The right-wing representatives have used this debate to repeat their distributed points. They point, for example. on the subject of trade renewal. Professional renewal is important, but it's about changing the curriculum – it's not a trust reform. The fact that the Right believes that trade union renewal and trust reform are the same shows how narrowly Right thinks about trust. And it may reveal most of all that a trust reform is too right limited to the Right definition of what trust is. If the proposals for decisions now adopted by a majority had been ‘good enough’, as the Right claims, the teachers might also have been satisfied. I believe – I hope at least – that the Right representatives have seen that they are not. Again, the importance of school policy is what the Right opinion is right. There is one truth, that is the Right Truth. Again, the Right does not listen to what the teachers and students want. No, you can't decide trust, but you have to set goals. This could have been a start. It's our job as politicians to make clear, good suggestions, as in our proposals. It's worth remembering what the right parties are against today. A vote against our proposal for a trust reform at school. A vote against having a sample composed of the parties to review the quality assessment system as part of the professional renewal. A vote against reducing the overall scope of monitoring, measurement, reporting and documentation requirements. It is a pity that a person replaces these clear, clear proposals with his own vague and non-binding proposals. The proposals for decisions promoted by the government parties are so vague that they create some confusion even in this room. I notice that the Christian People's Party believes that the proposal for Decision III means that one will have changes before the trade renewal, while the comment clearly points out that this will only come when new curricula are introduced. Here we are not the ones that are unclear. Our alternative is clear: we want more time for learning and more confidence in the teachers. It's a shame today it's going to be saddened.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3041	It is interesting to hear the representative Tvedt Solberg say that for the Right is trust that at all times defines as trust, while at the same time he caricates our policies and our proposals because we do not agree with him and the Workers' Party. It's kind of strange to listen to. The only question I had in my opening post was: Can the Workers' Party say which reporting requirements they want to remove? What changes will they make to the national quality assessment system? What do they really mean when they say that they want to change the training law? What kind of decision-making authority do they think teachers or schools should have that the school owners should not have? When I specifically challenged him as to whether he could respond to this, I was met with the fact that I was only interested in talking about the politics of others. It is then up to the proposers to explain not only to me, but also to the various actors in School-Norway who have made the hearing, what they want, because there has been some uncertainty, especially from the KS and from the School Managers' Association, about what they really want to do. Then I am glad that the representative Arnstad was more concrete and clear. She referred to my quote that you do not want to reduce municipal governance, but at the same time she wants to make changes so that the school owner cannot introduce professional arrangements or surveys that are not professionally sound. Then I really only have a concrete challenge for Arnstad, to clarify what the proposers think. Is the representative of Arnstad thinking that local government should no longer be allowed to do so, for example: deciding that students should have 60 minutes of physical activity each day if the teachers, or each school, do not consider it to be professionally sound? If she says yes to that, it's completely real, but it will mean that you make a legal change and move decision-making power. I should have liked a clarification on that. But I just want to take the invitation from the representative Martin Henriksen and say that yes, the most important thing for the Right has been to talk about what we want to do to strengthen the teaching profession, to strengthen the professional communities and to strengthen the school ownership role. We're incredibly concerned that teachers should have a professional room for action. Minating what trade renewal means, I think is a pretty big misunderstanding. Professional renewal is about the most important thing in school: what our students should learn and what tools teachers should have to use to vary their teaching. It's quite natural to look at the quality assessment system, and it's quite natural to look at assessment in general when you have the curriculum in place, because it's about the skills that students who are now starting school will have for the rest of their lives. I just want to stress that the trust promise we're making is something that we started with the trade renewal. We started the time thief selection, and we started the teacher's lift. All the measures we have taken to strengthen the role of teachers have been important measures in the school sector, and it is reliable – not just on the Right’s confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3054	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3059	I'm less concerned with what government parties write in the notes that are nice and nice, or what they say from the pulpit about trust in the teachers and their room of action. I'm more concerned with what you actually do. The course from the red-green parts here is ready: the testing and reporting regime takes too much time from the teachers. How, then, do you decide which tests or surveys should be modified or removed? Well, then we say that this must involve the profession, the school leaders and the sector heavily. We believe that it should be decided with the parties, in the selection right will not decrease. We don't want to centralize it, but the right won't start that work. Then it's a little difficult to involve the teachers and get results. It's very bad that the government refuses to take the big, necessary grips that, among other things. The Ludvigsen Committee wanted, which is wanted by the teachers, and which needs to be in order for the innovation to work properly. A review of the quality assessment system after the introduction of the new skills and curricula is pointless.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3068	The answers of the Workers' Party are requested in relation to the contents of the school, etc. One of the reasons why we want to set up a party-based selection is that we want to look at the quality aspect: not have the conclusion in advance, but invite the social and labour partners – both school owners, teachers and others – to participate in the debate, to look at what is good, and what is not working as well in Norwegian school. I think that's a responsibility that politicians have, a responsibility for teachers getting more time to practice their profession in a good way, and a responsibility to provide the best possible education for all our children and young people in Norwegian schools. There is no doubt that students need teachers who have time and knowledge to follow them up properly every day at school, who see them, and see the needs of each student. Then we have to make sure that there is less detail management, and give more responsibility to the professionals who are going to do this work every day. This is what this trust reform is all about. Today’s school system for measuring quality for the snow – we have received clear feedback from students, teachers and organisations alike – and it does not support it under the school’s broad social mandate. That's why we have to be critical of how the school works, and also of how it's put up. It's not about criticising anyone, it's about being critical and looking at how the systems work, and how we can implement new measures that give a different direction, a better direction. It's not about Norwegian school being bad, it's about making the school even better for those who go to school every day. We believe in better results through increased trust, not more control. That is why we will reduce unnecessary reporting and testing and various programmes and methods imposed. It is the teachers who must be responsible for assessing which methods and tools are most appropriate in this educational work. It's the professionals who know these challenges. The Committee of Experts, which was set up and which assessed the role of teachers in 2016, made a clear conclusion: the teachers were overread with expectations. It's a very bad start for teachers who have just taken an education, that the expectations are in a way so great that they overshadow the work they're going to do every day. That's why I think it's also important that we change this role. When you experience trust, you'll usually do more, as I said in my first post. If the mechanisms of trust-based management work, we get more innovation, less bureaucracy and better training for students. This is what Norwegian school needs, and Norwegian students need to be able to perform better in the future — for a good school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3078	The representative Arnstad said that it was important that we were clear and permissive when we referred to each other, and I fully agree with that. Therefore, I just want to point out that I did not cut anything out in the sentence that I referred to, and it is not related to what the representative Arnstad himself read up afterwards. We simply disagree with the role of local politicians in school ownership and the fact that they actually have a role that is more than purely administrative. It's fundamental and important to me and to the Right that it's the local school owners who run their schools. Then I wonder if the representatives of the Workers' Party have at all read the proposals of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. It is said that we will not listen to the teachers, that we will not include the parties in the work to be done, that we will not review the quality assessment system, and that we are not willing to look at the documentation requirement. I actually want to read out a few of the suggestions, because I don't understand that you haven't been able to understand that we also want to do something more. We're not very satisfied with everything. We've done a lot, but we're not satisfied, we're going to do more and more. In the case of the teacher’s professional room for action: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the work on the renewal of the training law and the revision of the training law respect the professional space of the teacher’s profession, in line with the General Part – values and principles of initial training.’ It is a very clear indication of the importance of the teacher's professional space for action. As regards samples, documentation and reporting: ‘The government is asked to continue to reduce the level of reporting and documentation at national level and to initiate the review of local reporting and documentation plans by municipalities when introducing new curricula.’ I mean, a link to the innovation. And on the other hand, ‘This review should be carried out in cooperation with the parties, teacher training institutions, students, teacher students, school owners and school leaders, with a view to reducing documentation requirements and strengthening the local school owner’s area of action.’;» Is this not to include the parties, the teachers and the schools in getting a good system of documentation, for testing and for reporting, so I don't know. The last thing I want to include is: we are said not to be willing to look at the National Quality Assessment System. Ida, we are – in connection with the innovation. It is not possible to see these two things detached from each other: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a sample representing the parties in the school sector to review the National Quality Assessment System in the light of the innovation and to propose appropriate changes.’ Where the ‘school sector is represented’ – it’s okay to want a different device on it, but at least you don’t have to pretend that the majority parties aren’t willing to do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3114	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3119	The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde has his own ability to extend these debates. Had she come in time and heard my main post, I think she had received more answers. I think that almost regardless of how many answers we give in this debate, it would still have been an uncertainty of the Right-wing Representatives, because they are – as I said earlier – committed to constructing disagreements. I agree that one must be measured on the proposals. We criticize the fact that the majority today say no to our clear alternatives and rather come up with its vague and non-binding proposals. It is only to refer to the statements of the Education Association from when the adjustment came. They meant the same thing: this was vague, non-obligatory, and not least disappointing. It is only to note that the only ones who are satisfied with this position and these vague proposals are the representatives of the Right – absolutely no one else outside this Chamber. It is only to note that the representatives of the Right believe it is right and important to strengthen the school owners' room for action. In this debate it has become clear that at least they will not support the scope of action of the teachers. [[The President clubs.]] It is a pity to note that no trust reform is adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3128	Time's up. The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3135	There is no doubt that all the representatives in this room have good intentions and that we are all talking about reducing documentation requirements and time thieves in school. The time of the teachers shall be spent teaching and following up the students. This seems like we're agreeing. So the question is more how do we achieve it. The opposition then strongly advocated that we need a comprehensive trust reform, with several concrete proposals, to the extent that we want to start a work and see this in the context of trade renewal. It is also a key point when the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde frames up the government's actions. This must be seen in the context of trade renewal and in conjunction with each other. Minority proposal No. 4 and proposals for Roman Numeral Decision III are in stark contrast to each other, in the sense that we interpret very differently what is included in those proposals. Of course, we believe that our proposal is best.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3144	I have, to the best of my ability, tried to get what the Labour Party really wants, and I have to admit that after listening to the debate it is not very easy. Asphjell will have a selection to involve the parties, and the rest of the Workers' Party's educational fraction has now widely adopted SV's rhetoric in school policy. In the last period, we experienced that the Workers' Party tried to copy the Right in School Policy. I thought that was positive. Now we see that the Labour Party is increasingly trying to copy SV in school policy. It doesn't drive the school in the future. However, we can see that the policy we are implementing is doing. We are now delighted that more people are completing high school. And it points out that the Knowledge Promise, which was carried out under the previous bourgeois government, is an important explanation for that. We see that we are able to lift some of the weakest students, the boys, Norwegians born with immigrant parents – several complete high school. We are now going to carry out the trade renewal, which is a renewal of the school, which will contribute to more time for deeper learning and give more room for the teacher to be a teacher. Through the Education Directorate, we've had three recording rounds of 6,700 recordings. Then you shouldn't come and say that we don't involve the teachers and the parties. I myself conduct several meetings with the parties, students and teachers and others, just to have a good dialogue about the innovation. It's important, because what we're doing now is renewing the school, where the new curricula must be well anchored in teachers, school leaders and school owners. Trust is a term that strongly appeals to me. At the same time, I would like to stress that trust must be accompanied by responsibility. That's why we want to increase the room for teachers and schools to fill the school with content, but we're also going to make demands on results.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3155	The representative Kent Gudmundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3160	What made me take the floor was the post of the representative Tvedt Solberg. He could spare himself to use such a designation of my co-representative, Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde. We were several who were present in this room, and who have heard the posts from here. The undersigned himself has been up and problematated along the same lines. What may be a greater dilemma in this matter is what is said from the pulpit, and what rhetoric is used by Tvedt Solberg, versus what can be read in the notes and the setting. This is where things don't relate, and that's why more people feel a little bit unsure about the direction of the red-green school project.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3165	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3170	I have to say I am somewhat surprised at the need to construct contradictions in this matter. If you look at the suggestions, as they were read up here instead, they contain a lot of the same elements. I think the representative Knutsdatter Strand summed it up well: we all want to reduce documentation requirements. We want to start a review of the quality assessment system. Yes, the Christian People's Party and the government parties even suggest that we do it with the parties. That has not been proposed by the opposition. We provide the teacher's room for action. When reducing documentation requirements, it is not just a strengthening of the local level; it is also a strengthening of the teacher’s room for action. I think we should at least try to say what we're agreeing on, and not construct contradictions as if there were disagreement at all points. We're all going in one direction, and I think we're all going to underline that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3179	When I have been sitting and listening to the representative Gudmundsen and his party traps from the Right here today, I have got a little déjà vu back to the time when Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party went around and talked that "the future is not adopted – it is created". The working party is very aware of and quite clear of the fact that trust is not adopted, but it is equally obvious that structure and culture can be used to strengthen teachers' professional spaces of action. The Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and the SV, has proposed a set of very specific structural measures designed to reduce the overall pressure on the teacher, so that the teacher can have more time to be a teacher, for the benefit of the students. These are measures that can also help to change culture, the way we look at teachers, and strengthen the teacher's freedom of action. Very much is good in Norwegian school, but the growth in demands, demands and expectations for teachers is too great. We in the Working Party will do something about that. It should be a direction it's pretty easy to recognize. Right is very confused about that. I find that regrettable, and I am very sorry that they will vote against the proposals on these concrete measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3189	The representative Jorod Asphjell has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3194	The working party says the same thing today as we did in the previous period about testing in school. The right voted against it then, and they voted against it today. It is good to hear that the Council of State has met with both teachers and students, but it would have been much more reassuring if he had listened to what was said by the organizations about exactly these questions, because it creates confidence. The government's proposal implies that a review of the quality assessment system, NKVS, takes place only during the next major period, after the renewal of the profession. That's why we in the Workers' Party – as I said in my post – wanted us to have a party-based sample, which can look at this even faster, to make the school even better. To change curricula and introduce new municipal goals without simultaneously changing the assessment system and critically looking at the sum of tests and tests at school, when we do not target more in-depth learning, trust and more time for a varied training. This is the big challenge in Norwegian school today, and that is why the Labour Party is proposing a trust reform – to create an even better school, which sees both teachers and students.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3203	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox The President is confident that the debate on substance will take place. 14 is round, at least in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3221	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3230	I'll try not to spend my entire speaking time. It is a unanimous committee that agrees on both the position and the proposal, and with the exception of a brief comment from the Christian People's Party, to which they will probably explain themselves, we broadly agree on this matter. It's a representative proposal from the Christian People's Party to give Bible students two extra points. It is probably the result of a debate in the election campaign at Ålgård, where I was a member, at the Young Land Meeting with several thousand young people, who had attended Bible school. The programme manager’s question was whether the debaters would introduce two additional points. No one was negative in that assembly, but there were several people who said they wanted to see it in a whole. That was the reason why, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I made a proposal that we ask the government to review today's legislation on the ranking of applicants for higher education, including education that does not make any points today, and come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. I guess there won't be a big debate now, but we'll get the big debate when this review is done. I will take this up with the committee's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3241	For the sake of order, to the representative, Mr Steffensen, proposals need not be made when the committee is set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3246	Bible schools are an offer to youths and young adults who want a different year. In connection with the treatment of the primary education message, Report. St. 51 for 1995–1996, it was decided that students who completed a year in higher education should receive two additional points, including those for admission to higher education. According to the Storting, the background to this Decision was: ‘The secondary school shall provide public education, disincentive to work and commitment, and stimulate accountability and self-determination. In this way, public schools can be a good preparation for further study. The higher education institution shall primarily provide information on life and be a school that gives impetus to an active work for work and leisure, and that is open to the challenges of a new era by linking past, past and future.» The size was at the time concerned that the national colleges put value questions on the agenda, added to a teaching that stimulated people to think through their own stand and gave direction to reflection and involvement in society. At that time, Bible schools were subject to the Private School Act, and it was therefore not natural to consider additional credits for students in these schools. Now the Bible schools are under the adult education law and have an organization and purpose that is close to the national colleges. There are therefore very good reasons why a completed year in Bible school today should give the same count as a completed year in high school. The Christian People's Party accepts and supports the review of the Code of Ranking for Higher Education. At the same time, I would like to stress that in such a review, it is important to make a thorough assessment of the Bible schools on the basis of how they are organized today, and the purpose for which they are to be filled. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the Bible Schools are an important alternative, like a different year – in the same way as the National Colleges – to many young people. Such a year contributes to personal development, to education and to the search for knowledge, which also gives an advantage in preparing for higher education in the next round. In my opinion, it is therefore quite natural that students who complete a Bible school year receive additional credits in the same way that students at national colleges get it, a view that both the Progress Party and SV actually supported in the election campaign before last year's elections, as the representative Steffensen reminded us instead. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to the review that the Stortinget asks the government to do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3264	In short, the Christian People's Party's proposal to introduce two study credits for students who have completed Bible studies affects as I can see, approx. Twenty schools. In other words, it is basically a small matter, which does not apply to so many, but of course is important to them. The Workers' Party supports the Committee's view that there are today many different schemes with additional credits for admission to higher education, and we consider it appropriate for the government to review these schemes in the context of the notified review of the legislation for ranking applicants. When that review is ready, this with additional points can become a bigger matter. It will then, if necessary, take a decision and debate when the specific proposal of the Department is available. We in the Workers' Party believe it is better for the government to take an overall review of the rules than for the Stortinget to adopt additional credits for individual training. It will be more transparent for the students, and it will be more predictable. A comprehensive review must not necessarily lead to remediation. For the Workers' Party, it is important that Norway introduces a flexible education system, which looks at the whole human being, which does not create or build up under bias, and which qualifies as well as possible. We look forward to getting the matter processed in Stortinget as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3277	Rules for additional credits for admission to higher education are laid down in the right-hand admission regulation. Both recording requirements and rules for ranking applicants have been subject to changes over time and several regulatory changes have been made in recent years. The introduction of new admission requirements, as well as the rules for ranking qualified applicants, is the main concern. Such changes may be simple and comprehensible individually, but they may mean that the legislation as such has become increasingly complex. It is difficult for counsellors and students in higher education to know what is best to do to make room for the study they want when students go on to higher education. It is therefore an objective for the government to simplify the legislation, while remaining fair to the applicants. The community is well served by the fact that as many young people as possible can start higher education without having to walk the path of character enhancement and other activities which under the current legislation can provide additional points. I'd like to remind the Storting that 50 pst. of the places of study allocated to applicants under 22 years of age, and in that quota, applicants compete solely with the results of ungraded secondary education, i.e. the average of all the characters of the initial testimonial and any additional score for the real- and foreign-language programming subjects. In some studies with a very uneven gender distribution, the underrepresented gender can get two extra points. Two additional points for students who have completed one year in Bible school, for which proposals have now been made, may only be given to applicants who compete for a place of study in the so-called ordinary quota, which constitutes the remaining 50 pst. In my opinion, the Bible Schools must be seen in conjunction with other schools that are approved on the same legal basis. If Bible students are to be given two additional points, I believe the same must apply to students in other so-called Chapter 4 schools. It is currently approved and operating 29 schools under the Adult Education Act Chapter 4. Most of them are Bible schools, approx. 19th@item: inlistbox Among the remaining are one Muslim school, one professional diving school and several schools of art, media and music. Schools approved under the Adult Education Act Chapter 4, or so-called various schools, have a great deal of professional freedom. They are required to have curricula at the level of primary school, but education at Bible schools and other Chapter 4 schools does not provide formal competence. I think there is a need to simplify the legislation, not to complicate it further. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee agrees that there is a need to review the existing legislation on the ranking of applicants for higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3290	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3295	I would first like to say that I fully agree with the Council of State that this should cover several of the schools under Chapter 4. So I share that assessment. Of course, when the Storting makes this decision today to review the Code of Ranking for Higher Education, we also expect the Bible Schools to be included in it, along with any other Chapter 4 schools that may be the starting point for that type of assessment. My question to the Council of State is when and how the Council of State sees this work going on. And how quickly can we expect a result of this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3304	I am pleased that there is a unanimous committee behind this, because then we will have the opportunity to review the legislation together and evaluate all types of schools. Of course, the Bible Schools and the other Chapter 4 schools must be included in such an assessment. As Stortinget has not yet decided that we should carry out that review, I will not accelerate now how quickly we can get this in place. But as many have been involved in the past, one thing is that we're now getting this review, and then we're going to add up that there can be a debate after we've looked at all the schools together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3311	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3329	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no replication, and that those who draw on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3339	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in the matter we are discussing today: the development and operation of the Johan Castberg field and the status of the oil and gas business. Today, with its majority position, the size will be clear as to what societal expectations one has for the oil and gas industry of the future – that we are using the important experience wisely and the acquired competence of each employee in the petroleum industry, to lift us in tomorrow. That's how we built up our oil and gas industries. We have organised ourselves with strong employers’ and employees’ organisations together with the state – an admirable model for other countries. We've created great values here at home, and it's also a goal for the future. For the Workers' Party, it has been essential that we have also thought in the long term, and that at the bottom of everything we do, there are clear demands for HMS, health, environment and safety. Of course, the success of Norwegian pedestals has been about natural assumptions, but also about visions and long-term thinking. It has been about an innovative and knowledge-driven industry, where the interaction of the Norwegian model has been crucial. That's also how we're going to do the green shift. Together with the petroleum industry, we will achieve the Paris objectives. Oil and gas industries are currently a completely different industry than they were in 1972, when I was born. Nevertheless, there is still a firmness, and predictability for the industry, an important principle behind the majority of the Grand Duchy. What will shape the debate in the future will be, for example: the petroleum industry as a means of achieving the Paris objectives, and that we are slowing global warming through the possibilities of carbon capture, transport and storage. Good solutions and a carbon capture, transport and storage market are the most important Norway can contribute to achieving climate objectives, but it is also important to ensure a longer life and long-term digestion of oil and gas activities. The debate will also be marked by the opportunities that lie ahead of us in digitisation. Then, as I said earlier, the Workers' Party will be concerned with the large lines, not least the ten oil bids adopted by the Stortinget in 1971, where one of the most important bids was that the resources on the Norwegian base should be landed in Norway as a primary principle. I am pleased that today we are putting in a majority position to look at opportunities for sea wind on Norwegian soil. Developments in marine wind have accelerated in recent years, and there is reason to believe that technology will improve and that costs will decrease. Finally, I would like to say something about landing terminals. Before the natural gas age crossed the country, Kårstø in Rogaland was a small idyllic branch at Bokenafjorden with a stop for steamships and a cruise boat between Skjoldstraumen and Stavanger. It was a shop, it was forges and post offices, some houses, some small farms and farms with landscapes in a liberal and small hilly terrain. This landscape was offered by the municipality to industry early in the 1960s, but the terminal did not arrive until the 1980s. A powerful environment of competence and an important job emerged. It's that day today. Similarly, we are now making provision for the Weidnes in North Cape once to have its landing terminal. Today, the Storting is clear: it must be possible to realize the terminal at the latest at the time of the opening of the next Barents Sea field. With this, I recommend the majority decisions referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3371	Between 2004 and 2016, the world’s population grew by about 1 billion people. In four weeks, the world’s population is increasing by approx. In the United Kingdom, the proportion of drugrelated deaths among drug users in the EU increased by about 1 % in the previous year. one Germany. These are people who need energy. In fact, access to energy has been important for more people to be lifted out of poverty. We must have that in mind when we know that Norway is an energy nation. We have a responsibility with our amazing natural resources. Earlier this spring, we have seen that the so-called environmental party SV believes that Norway should not participate in a European cooperation on renewable energy. Similarly, both the MDG and the SV are opposed to the development and operation of Johan Castberg, which we are discussing today. I'm proud of Norway as an energy nation. We have fantastic, renewable resources, and we have fossil resources that we have shown that we can extract in a responsible way. Our strict regulations on Norwegian base contribute to full transparency about emissions. And we have a socket that requires a CO2 charge. The incentives are always there to cut emissions, and emissions are cut. In fact, our regulations are so strict that it's not the most attractive base for companies economically. There's something else that attracts, and that's predictability. They know what strict demands are being made, they know that they have to pay very much in taxes, but they also know what they have to deal with. These factors have together contributed to our gaining a knowledge-based industry, an industry that possesses an insane competence that we can use today, but which is also becoming important in the way of the renewable society. Then we see that there is a record gas going from Norway to Europe. This gas makes it easier for Europe to phase coal out in the power supply. This is how gas is an important bridge towards renewables, which we, among other things, are. has been seen in the United Kingdom. Today, a broad majority of plans for the development and operation of Johan Castberg are adopted. In the Johan Castberg field we will be able to extract approx. 558 million. Let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, We see a production period of about 30 years. Investment expectations are about 47.2 billion. kr, but the expansion will have a high profitability, and it will also stand at low oil prices. The present value before tax is calculated at 74.2 billion. kr, and if a viable solution is found, the gas may also be produced and exported. There has also been a debate on local ring effects. I think that the ringing effects locally are one of several important factors in the legitimacy of the industry. This project contributes to it – without doubt. At the same time, I have to mention that in 2013 it was celebrated that a new landing terminal for oil from the Barents Sea was to be built, with its own terminal planned for Veidnes. Although central premises for that decision have not taken place, this created great expectations locally in Honningsvåg. We are currently recording that the companies establish that the investigated landing solution is not socially or industrially profitable with this expansion alone. But I am pleased with what we are adopting today, namely that when several producing fields are set up in the Barents Sea, these must be seen in conjunction with Johan Castberg and the construction of a landing terminal on Veidnes. I am also pleased that the majority points out that, in this case, it is important to have the best possible decision-making basis, that the work of the BSOI should therefore be continued, and that all decisions should be based on good resource management.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3393	This is an important decision, it is a profitable decision and a decision to give local ring-effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3396	This is a big day. This is a big day for Norway, a big day for North Norway and a big day especially for Finnmark. With today's approval of the development plan for the Castberg field, we adopt investments of 47 billion. NOK 47 000 and annual work for the next six years. There's a lot of things that have changed since 2013, when we saw an oil price of well over $100 the barrel. Too many people have had a rough time. There has been a fight for increased productivity, efficiency and cost reduction. Today, we see the results that help ensure Norwegian competitiveness in the country's main industries. The petroleum sector is our second-largest and most important industry, with enormous ring-effects, value creation and revenue to the state. As a rogalending I know all about this, but it may be worth taking into account that there is no industry that has a greater impact on the districts of Norway than exactly the petroleum industry. In 2016, nearly 200,000 people were employed in the industry – or in connection with it – and contributed to 168 billion. kr to the treasury. In 2017, there were ten plans for expansion and operation, with a total investment of 120 billion. kr. One of these fields was Castberg, who is being treated today, a project that was planned to spend 100 billion dollars. kr to build out, and that depended on a minimum price of about $80. Today, Castberg appears to be the project that most clearly shows a new everyday life. Today, there is a plan for development and operation of 47 billion. kr and a 'break even' of $31 barrel. It's just to congratulate the people involved for a good job, a work that has led to the project being realizable. Now a lot has changed in the plan, and it is a reality that you have had to make tough choices to cope with this – a landing is among these consequences. We can see that it's being reacted to, but we're doing ourselves a bear service if we now impose extra costs on the industry. The foreground part – and the government – will work for ring effects in North Norway and Finnmark in connection with all activity from the petroleum industry. It is not difficult to believe – it is absolutely necessary to succeed. We now see in the matter that with today's solution there are great positive ring-effects for the whole region. This is just the beginning. Any transfer solution in Finnmark for oil from the Castberg field or other fields in the Barents Sea must be based on good resource management considerations. I noticed that the Storting also underlined this. Industrial development including reloading depends on profitability and volume.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3412	The Johan Castberg field is thus far the largest oil field found in the Barents Sea, and with an expected production period of up to 30 years, the project becomes important for employment and value-added for a long, long time in the future. As has been said before in the debate, in 2013 it was celebrated that a new landing terminal for oil from the Barents Sea was to be built, with its own terminal planned for Veidnes in Finnmark. It happened as a result of Equinor, formerly Statoil, publishing a draft for the current Castberg with such a terminal. This created great expectations locally, but also nationally. Important key premises for the decision have not taken place, but the need for and wish for these jobs is the same. It is now established that the investigated landing solution is not socially or industrially profitable with this expansion alone. It is therefore important for the Centre Party in the Energy and Environment Committee to stress that, when several producing fields are set up in the Barents Sea, these must be seen in conjunction with Johan Castberg and the construction of a landing terminal at Veidnes. Local workplaces and value creation are important for the Centre Party. Therefore, obtaining a landing terminal at Veidnes in Finnmark with the possibility to operate several fields is essential. The centre party is concerned that marine petroleum activities will also provide jobs and economic development on land. In 1971 the Stortinget adopted «the ten oil bids». One of the most important bids was that the resources on Norwegian pedestal should be landed in Norway as a primary principle. Activities in the Barents Sea must be organised and operated in such a way as to contribute to employment and industrial development in North Norway. Landing oil from the Barents Sea to the Veidnes oil terminal in North Cape will be an important contribution in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3422	Positive ring-effects across the country and locally in the region are a prerequisite for continued Norwegian oil extraction. That's what gives legitimacy. Therefore, production must also benefit the community through jobs and the strengthening of local communities. People living in Finnmark will benefit from oil production, and the Centre is therefore concerned that companies actively facilitate the participation of local and regional businesses, especially in the long-term production phase of the field. Therefore, the Centre Party also considers it important that the rightholders carry out an analysis of the regional and local effects of the development no later than two years after the field has been put into production.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3425	This spring we've been setting new heat records. In April this year, the four hundredth month was in a row above normal temperature. The last time we had a month of temperatures below average, was in December 1984. Ronald Reagan was then a month away from starting his second presidential period, and "Wake Me Up Before You Go-Go" with Wham! topped the Billboard list. In Norway we had a Prime Minister, Kåre Willoch, who a few years later warned of an excessive rate of oil extraction. None of today's 30-year-olds have experienced a month when the temperature of the globe has been below normal. They've only experienced temperatures above the average. The threat of climate change no longer belongs solely to the future. The changes happen here and now. But the good news is that we can limit the damage if we want to. The good news is that we can leave a living globe to our children if we want to. The good news is that we're doing a lot already. When 350 million took public transport in Oslo and Akershus rather than driving a car last year, it has a huge impact on both CO 2 emissions and local pollution. In order to achieve a common climate momentum, we therefore need politicians who support the wishes of the people most to contribute. When 2017 became the first year when more people used collectives than cars in Oslo, it is because the city council is playing massively on collective development and makes it a little more difficult to drive a car. While we all travel more collectively, drive more electric cars, cycle more and help reduce emissions, the government actively chooses to pursue a policy that increases emissions again. The emissions from the gas power plant in the Johan Castberg oil field are as high as the emissions from all Norwegian electric cars have contributed. This puts this matter in perspective. There are also twice as many estimated cuts in the effort made in large cities to increase public transport. The government is inviting us to the air conditioning. Many contribute, but together with the majority of the population, the government gets zero out of the effect of our joint effort with a single decision in the Stortinget. In addition, it is highly critical that Equinor has been allowed to enter into contracts for a value of over 2 billion prior to the Grand Duchy's handling of the case. kr. This is to let the oil industry sneak past democratic control and just go ahead. When Equinor has chosen a development solution that makes it impossible to cut emissions by electrification and when they start building up before the decision is taken by the Stortinget, they make it difficult for the Stortinget to take decisions that cut emissions. That is why we say no to the fact that the oil industry is snorting in line, and no to new allocations that dramatically increase emissions at a time when we have to cut. We have to start converting Norway out of the oil age now. There is a great deal of responsibility on the part of the majority of the population and the government in this case. We lock ourselves to large emissions for decades to come, decades when Norwegian emissions are going to go down dramatically. That's a crazy policy, what's going on. As greenhouse gas emissions increase, it is because the majority actively want them to do so. The world has found more oil, coal and gas than we can dissipate if we're still going to have a viable climate, and if future generations are to experience months where the average temperature is below the average. I bring up the suggestions that SV is alone about, and the ones that we are together with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3441	Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3446	The primary policy of the left for oil and gas extraction is in principle simple: we will stay away from vulnerable areas, it will be profitable, and we will reduce greenhouse gas emissions from existing petroleum activities. The Johan Castberg field is located in the Barents Sea, an area where the Left is initially skeptical of oil activity for environmental, climate and economic risks in the projects. The Jeløya platform, which forms the basis of today's government, means that oil activity should not be opened in Lofoten, the Westphalian, Senja, Mørefelten, Skagerrak, Jan Mayen and the ice edge. The edge of the ice shall be defined in the context of the revision of the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten, following the recommendations of the Professional Forum. The debate on the edge of the ice is to come back to us, and so is the area of the Barents Sea – especially the Bear Island has been mentioned. But what is a fact is that Johan Castberg is one of the fields approved in Stortinget before the management plan is completed. The Barents region may become a new area of oil and gas activity on Norwegian continental shelf. The Snow White and Goliath fields are in production, we are currently processing Johan Castberg in this setting. The owners of the Alta/Gotha and Wisting fields are actively working to mature them so that more plans for expansion and operation can be made for the Stortinget. In addition, there are prospects for further findings of oil and gas deposits in the area. What characterises these northern areas are challenging climatic conditions, moderate water baptisms and ground reserves. In addition, the location far from existing infrastructure, in particular for new gas fields, can make them economically low. An example of this is that the temperature of the oil we take up in the Goliath field is 33 °C. At Johan Castberg it will be at 37 °C, in the Wisting field to 17 °C, and for the oil to be liquid it must be up to 50 °C. It says something about the heat demand that needs to be, that is, the energy that needs to be, and the further north, the more this heat demand will be. We recognize that the energy that the possible future expansions will need for the rotating machinery to warm up the oil, at least in this solution will come in the form of gas turbines. This is also followed by large emissions of CO 2. It's a challenge. If future builders are to deal with their issues one by one, we will hardly find the area solution that will give us better solutions to reduce CO 2 emissions. So the ministry is asked to invite relevant oil companies and others to propose area solutions for electricity generation, whether in the form of emission-free gas power solutions or marine wind solutions, which the majority outlines as a possible solution for the future. On average, the emissions of these gas turbines are estimated to be 315,000 tonnes, but we are in a situation where, in 2030, we can also have a 1 million tonnes emissions from gas turbines, as it is in the Sleipner field, and just 2030 is a year when we are going to have cut significant amounts of CO 2. Then we have to think that the subject-matter sector must also take its share of the responsibility for cutting emissions. It doesn't help us to run on and cut emissions in the non-quota sector if we allow one and one times more emissions in the no-quota sector. So it's like -- like a little 'careless whisper', about Wham! and George Michael to the representative Lars Haltbrecken – that we are not just filling in with ever-new emissions. There are also some oil fields to phase out, and we have to assume that new and better technologies are coming in, and that we also get carbon capture facilities that can help to help these plants away from large future emissions. It is a debate that we, among other things, are discussing. will be held later this week, but also in the years ahead. That's also part of the picture. It is also true that Norway’s share of emissions is around 1 pst. of the total oil production. The representative Heggelund was involved in the population growth. So in the next decades, we're going to grow from 7 billion to 9 billion people. There is a great need for energy that comes upon us, and that we are not quite likely to phase out immediately, without Norway going ahead and creating emission-free [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3475	Let me start by thanking the case spokesman for a good proposal and not least for a good cooperation. The petroleum industry has been important for Norway over many years, and Norwegian petroleum industry has provided a high level of prosperity and contributed to a high level of competence development and industrial development. At the same time, we are going to assume that Norwegian petroleum industry also contributes to CO 2 emissions, both during production and when what we actually collect, is incinerated. The Paris Agreement and the international agreement that greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced – one must stay below the global temperature increase of 2 degrees, preferably 1.5 degrees – will have an impact on how we operate on Norwegian soil. In the past, a reference point was the peak oil debate and the turbulence that allowed the world to run out of oil and gas. Now it's more about stranded assets, or we have resources that we have to lay down. It is important for us to lay the framework conditions in these messages, and in the work that Stortinget is doing, to regulate the activity on a Norwegian base. Renewable energy production has significantly boosted profitability in recent years. Although renewable energy production still has only a small market share to compare with fossil energy, it is natural to assume that it will strengthen quite a bit when the need for subsidies falls away and more stringent emission requirements are introduced. Offshore oil and gas have the main weight of their investments in the first phase of the lifetime of the field, while revenue is generated throughout their lifetime. Offshore deployments are therefore particularly vulnerable to permanent changes in market conditions. The climate risk on the projects on Norwegian soil must therefore become more acute for years to come. The tax regime on Norwegian pedestal is investment-friendly and thus deviating from the rest of the tax system, where one tries to achieve some kind of neutrality. It has been important to realize the values of Norwegian continental shelf to build Norwegian petroleum competence, but there is reason to ask questions about whether this is right at a time when we are facing an increased climate risk. All the time when the state takes a significant part in the risk of expansion, this is an economic and climate policy issue that the state should consider. Leading conditions and low political risk have been an important competitive advantage on Norwegian soil. Any changes in the petroleum tax system must be carried out in a professionally justified manner, and this must be done in a way where there is also a direction of what we are doing. Petroleum supplies must benefit the country. This has been an important principle from the very beginning, when the Norwegian Code of Conduct was laid down. It is an important principle for the Christian People's Party, which believes that socio-economic profitability should underpin new developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3490	I have to come into the Johan Castberg field, which is the basis for the proposition we are about to deal with today. I notice that there have been very large local expectations for the Johan Castberg field to give. Unfortunately, what we have on the table today is not meeting all these expectations. Strong upsurge in the people has been a pretext for Norwegian oil extraction. Therefore, production must benefit the community through jobs and strengthening the communities we have around our country. People who live in Finnland will benefit from the oil production that takes place in their own region. I am pleased that a possible landing terminal will still be included in the assessments if there are more fields of production that can provide the necessary volume and economy of the project. It is also good that the scaled-down solutions should be properly addressed. This is about taking the need for local networking seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3494	In the childhood of the oil industry, Norway had foreseen industrial politicians who understood the need for clear political governance of the Norwegian petroleum industry for the benefit of the Community. Several have already mentioned the ‘ten oil bids’ as an example. They understood the risk that the oil industry could also become a gangster, which meant among other things. Right-wing man Terje Osmundsen and Kåre Willoch – who pushed other parts of the business out of the nest, a boy who greedily supplied himself with the wisest heads, the biggest investments and the best political framework conditions. In addition, they understood that a gecko can also become so dominant and willful that it manipulates the parents around. Therefore, a clear political framework was established around the markets and the oil industry. Laws and regulations were established and a practice whereby the Storting will approve the opening of large sea areas and large investments. An investment cap was set to prevent the oil industry from making the country dependent on oil. These forward-looking industrial politicians got their warnings right, because soon the state-supporting parties in Norway disappeared into the oil rush. In recent decades, both the oil industry and the central political environment in Norway have been hit by some sort of shivering hybricism, which has convinced itself that petroleum is always and in any case profitable, that politicians should be kept as far away from decisions that matter, and that the environmental movement and other oil sceptics will always remain marginal and irrelevant. This hubris has put its mark on petroleum policy in both red and blue governments. It has given rise to scurvy, misinformation to the Stortinget and a lack of respect for decisions taken by magnificence and government. Let me give you some examples. In the opening process of the Barents Sea south-east, the largest opening process of 20 years, the red-green government gave gross misinformation to the Storting about the profitability of petroleum activities in the area. The crash message contained a number of errors and weaknesses. The Council of State has not taken any clear action to correct this decision-making basis. In the fall, the state council gave the wrong number to the Stortinget on Goliath construction. The Council of State also reports that the Asta Hansteen expansion will yield a violent return, while in reality it is below the PUD limit. The Council of State has continued a tradition in the OED since 2013 to ignore and overrun 100 pst. of the environmental advice on the call. The OED repeatedly accepts that major contracts are concluded before the PUD is approved by Stortinget, including in the case we are dealing with today. This shows how the oil industry has developed into just a gourmet, which kicks out other industries from the nest in Norway, and it shows how the breeder has even become strong enough to weaken the democratic management of the petroleum industry. The Council of State acts as a representative of the industry, not as a representative of the Community. This happens at the same time as the need for governance increases dramatically. Whether the Environment Party supports the oil policy of the Greens or the Right, it is clear that the future will impose stricter requirements for democratic anchoring. 44 pst. by the Nordics today will limit Norwegian oil activities in order to limit emissions. Only 42 pst. I disagree with you. Large parts of the EU Parliament now say no to oil exploration in the Arctic. Asta Hansteen can be profitable for the company, but not for the Norwegian people, and with increased risk, we are likely to get more such projects, where the state de facto loses money on environmentally harmful production. Thus, Norwegian taxpayers are increasingly likely to finance tax advantages for highly unprofitable petroleum projects. Many people are concerned that we have a petroleum policy that leads to investments that are seven times higher than in all other industries combined. We see that the breed loses other sectors of capital and competence. The time when oil policy was uncontroversial is over. The Green Party considers that the handling of these matters by the Council of State is, in total, critical and therefore promotes the following proposals: ‘The fact is that the efforts of the Minister of Oil and Energy to clear up the misinformation of the management of petroleum to the Storting, the use of figures and the lack of respect for the competence of the Storting to provide a framework for the petroleum industry are critical.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3528	The representative Per Espen Stoknes then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3534	The development of the Johan Castberg field binds Norway to enormous greenhouse gas emissions over the next 30 years. The annual operating emissions of around 315000 tonnes of CO 2 correspond to annual emissions from around 140000 cars. In addition, the emissions when oil is pumped up and burned will correspond to the emissions from approx. 100 million cars. These emissions cannot afford the globe. The Johan Castberg field is a climate bomb, and we're failing future generations when we build this field. The Johan Castberg field will release greenhouse gases by 2052 – when the Stortinget has decided that Norway should be a low-carbon society. The majority of the population close their eyes to the enormous climate change we are facing in this matter. For us sitting here in the hall, the consequences of climate change have been a record hot and quite delicious May month in the East. But just a month ago, the floods came in several places. And the record-breaking period we've had puts Norwegian agricultural crops and thus our self-sufficiency at risk. In Norway, climate change means increased expenditure, but in many other parts of the world, climate change means death, hunger and loss of habitats, and it in turn leads to more climate refugees. The decision to expand the Johan Castberg field contributes to these global disasters. Red believes that Norwegian oil and gas production must be reduced to a minimum, while ensuring the transition to a low-carbon society with a renewable resource-based business. The government presents the Johan Castberg field as a socio-economically profitable project, but several extensions on Norwegian base have had major deviations from the economic plans presented to Stortinget. State Council Søviknes recently called the yields from the Aasta Hansteen field violent. It is alarming, and it is not the first time that the Council of State is rotating with how profitable the petroleum projects are. It's the same actors that are building the Johan Castberg field that are behind the huge exceedances on the Goliath platform. And how can we be sure that the figures for this project are correct? We in Red therefore support the Greens' proposals that the Council of State has acted critically. Johan Castberg, after whom this field is named, stood up for the weak in society at that time, children born outside marriage. Pumping up more oil in the midst of the climate crisis we are in now creates major crises for those who come after us – the children. I think Castberg would have rotated in the grave he had seen what the Storting decides today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3550	This is a good day to establish that the oil and gas industry is Norway’s largest and most important industry. The industry employs directly and indirectly at the base of 200000 persons. The industry stimulates positive business technologies and social development across the country. It is competitive, innovative and has the capacity and willingness to adapt to new surroundings. The industry is our spearhead in the international trade in goods. We also see that technology developed in the oil and gas industries is being transferred to other industries, whether in aquaculture, offshore wind, infrastructure or health, to take some examples. The competence base built over 50 years is maybe the most important value we're left with so far from the oil adventure. Norwegian pedestal has been a technological laboratory underpinning the development of a highly competent and internationally competitive industry. The world's demand for oil and gas is increasing. There will be a great need for oil and gas for decades to come. Yes, we're going to introduce renewable energy into the energy mix, but there's still a lot of oil and gas. So new fields need to be developed, because existing and producing fields are being emptied over time. We should help people access energy, as clean energy as possible – because the population is increasing, but also because we need to lift more out of poverty. The activities on Norwegian pedestal also contribute to the financing of our well-being. Last year only, the country's net cash flow amounted to 68 billion. kr from the petroleum activity. Revenue will increase in the coming years. Since its inception, oil and gas production has been estimated at an estimated 14 000 billion. kr, measured in today's dollar value. The future prospects for Norwegian base remain positive, with a competitive resource base, a high investment rate and a good interest on the part of oil companies in continuing exploration, expansion and operation. One of the basis for this is Norwegian petroleum policy, which works well. The government will pursue a stable and long-term petroleum policy. I am therefore very pleased that a large majority in the Grand Duchy today is continuing the policy that is reflected in the proposition we have for treatment, which is enshrined in the Report. St. 28 for 2010–2011 and Prop. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1106/2014 of 17 Predictability and long-termity across parties and governments has been a competitive advantage for Norwegian continental shelf in competition with other oil regions in a global industry. The development of the Johan Castberg field is a huge industrial project with high profitability, and I am concerned, as several speakers have also been, with the development of local ring-effects and the greatest possible value for the community. Expected present value before tax for expansion is approximately 74 billion. kr for the Johan Castberg project, and a large proportion of this will fall to the Community through both the tax system and the SøE scheme. There will be 47 000 annual works in the deployment phase – a share of this in the north. In the operational phase, it will be approx. 1 700 annual works per year, and an even greater percentage of them go into operations in our northernmost counties. Both Hammerfest and Harstad's oil environments will be strengthened by this expansion, and we will see that the ringing effects give rise to growth and development. In a separate industrial project Equinor and the other operators of the field and findings in the Barents Sea have worked for several years with a possible landing of oil from the Johan Castberg field and the other fields. So far, neither social nor industrial profitability has been found in these projects, but I am happy that the work continues. One looks at a scaled-down solution with a smaller terminal, possibly in combination with ship-to-ship transhipment, and we will of course come back to the Stortinget with a clarification after the operator cooperation in BSOI has completed its work towards the fourth quarter of 2018. This is a historic day for Stortinget. We need to take decisions on further petroleum policy and the Johan Castberg project. There is in fact reason to congratulate the Stortinge on what seems to be being adopted this day.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3573	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3578	The fall in oil prices led to a decrease in activity and a sharp decline in oil investment over several years. It is therefore very gratifying that Equinor has found the solution that realizes an extension of the Johan Castberg field off the coast of Finnmark. Johan Castberg is an important industrial project. The expansion has an expected investment of approx. 50 B.C.E. kr and will represent a significant share of the investments on Norwegian pedestal in the coming years. The Johan Castberg field has an expected production time of 30 years, and the field will contribute strongly to the socio-economic environment. The Workers' Party has been a driver to ensure local ring-effects related to the development of the Johan Castberg field. National, regional and local ring-effects must be required during the development and exploitation phase. It is gratifying that Norwegian companies have already secured important contracts, so that many jobs are secured and new jobs are created. Many of those who were hit by redundancies and redundancies have been offered a new job. The proposal and Equinor’s own note on the ring-effects of the Johan Castberg project describe an ambition that a maximum proportion of the staff should come from North Norway, as well as an ambition to add 160 apprentices each year for the next five years and that about one in five years. One third of these will come from North Norway. This is positive, and it must be followed up in cooperation with the county councils, so that the educational institutions are ready for the task. The majority of the population have requested that the analysis by The Barents Sea Oil Infrastructure on different landing solutions be submitted to the Stortinget during 2018. It will be up to the Stortinget to decide whether a reduced terminal solution or a ship-to-ship solution on Weidnes – a decision based on good resource management considerations. There are great expectations and demands that the oil from the Johan Castberg field be landed. The Johan Castberg field is a great find, and then Statoil and the whole of North Norway celebrated that a landing terminal for oil from the Barents Sea was to be built as early as 2013. The working party has contributed to the participation of the majority of the population that, at the latest, in the establishment of several producing fields in the Barents Sea, a landing terminal is to be built at Veidnes in Finnmark. Then the Johan Castberg field oil will land there in a future terminal that can also include oil from among others. Alta/Gotha and Wisting field. A strong population expansion is a prerequisite for continued Norwegian oil extraction. Therefore, production must take place in a sustainable way, strengthening local communities and not reversing existing industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3595	For the last decade, Norway has been part of the oil and gas adventure. Today, we are writing a chapter in this story that has led the small country up here in the north to prosperity – built with the expertise and knowledge of our innovative supplier industry and our development companies. Today, when we are to adopt the extension and operation of the Johan Castberg field, it is a result of a work that is not a follow-up. During the previous decades, we developed our expertise in the oil and gas industry, but we have to admit that, since attention has been directed towards the environment and security, the cost of a high and stable oil price was not equally focused on. There was a painful experience in the supplier industry when international players seven to win contracts we would like to have, but perhaps worse – that the oil price got a serious break. It was necessary to grab hold, it was necessary to think new to achieve profitability in new projects. And here we stand today and will decide on the Johan Castberg expansion, a project that three to four years ago did not seem to be profitable with the oil price that was then. Companies and suppliers use their skills to think about new things, because the world's energy needs to be harnessed several hundred meters below the seabed. With the Johan Castberg project, we will also have high Norwegian value creation and activity along the whole coast, which is important when we now see it decreasing on large oil and gas projects. There is now an important activity to maintain the competence of the transition to renewables, and I am pleased with the broad majority of the population who are behind stable and robust framework conditions for the petroleum sector. But there is one matter of committee management that cannot be contradicted. With the attention now being given to keeping costs down, we are very surprised to note that SV and the Environmental Party The Greens propose that contractual obligations and construction work cannot start until the PUD is approved, even with cancellation clauses. It is important for jobs in the supplier industry that Stortinget does not change today’s practice, where contracts can be awarded with a renewed PUD authorisation. A change to the PUD will result in a break in the suppliers' work processes by creating a design basis. The ability to provide efficient and rapid implementation is one of the key factors for Norwegian suppliers to beat competitors from other countries, as each month with additional project work before the start of production, society costs between 250 and 500 million. kr. In addition, the value of close interaction to achieve the best solutions both technically, economically and in the HMS area is decisive for the success of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3608	The first part of the landfill proposal we are debating now is a notification section dealing with Norwegian oil industry. Therefore, I allowed myself to follow up on one of the major discussion themes that have been on Norwegian oil industry and Norwegian base. It's about electrification of Utsira. In 2014, Lundin told Technical Weekly that their gas turbine was going to run independently of an electrification decision. In 2017, in October, one, including the Technical Weekly, said that one still did not have a solution to the heat problem. This is one of the reasons why the Council of State has asked more questions about the two turbines in Edvard Grieg over the last two weeks. They are in operation today, but with orders that they be taken out of service and replaced by power from land. In the first question, the Council of State was asked if he knew any information that would mean that the turbines would not be switched off. In question 2, from the representative Per Espen Stoknes, he was asked if he can guarantee that the gas turbines at Edvard Grieg will be shut down in time. The questions raise a concern that the decision made a unanimous decision on 18 June 2015 will not be fulfilled. The decision states: ‘The rightholders of the Johan Sverdrup field shall establish, by 2022 at the latest, an area solution for power from land to cover the full power requirements of the Johan Sverdrup, Edvard Grieg, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krogh fields.’ So the whole power demand said the Storting there. In the comments on this proposition, Edvard Grieg was specifically mentioned. A single committee wrote in a comitology note: ‘The Committee refers to the projection’s reference to the power demand in the area and the heat demand in the fields associated with the area resolution of power from land, and notes that different heat demand solutions are being worked on. For the part of the Edvard Grieg field, the connection to the area solution for power from land will lead to the phasing out of all own power generation from gas turbines. The Committee notes that alternative solutions to meet the heat demand are being developed in this context.’.» I will repeat, to get the point: ‘For the Edvard Grieg field part, the connection imposed to the area solution for power from land will lead to the phasing out of all own power generation from gas turbines.’ None of the answers given by the State Council is a satisfactory answer to the question, namely the removal of gas turbines. The fact that, after repeated questions, he cannot confirm that the gas turbines are going away, in line with what the Storting has agreed and a joint committee has said in its comments, gives me no reason to rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3629	On 12 February 2013 there was a party at Veidnes in the municipality of Nordkapp. I know, because I was there. Statoil celebrated with the population that the Johan Castberg field was to be landed, just at Veidnes. Finnmark Arbeiderparti was happy, we had been assured that the ringing effects of the oil fields off our coast would have ringing effects in Finnmark. But then it was quiet, the oil price went down, the project was suspended, scaled down, and finally it became clear that Statoil did not see the equivalent of the bill for landing the oil in Finnmark. The result was a slow change in the attitude towards oil and gas activities in Finnmark. We knew that the Johan Castberg field would produce national ring-effects, and we also knew that it would produce regional ring-effects. What was left was the local ring-effects, and it didn't answer Statoil. In order for natural resources to be exploited and to be brought up to date, they must have local effects in terms of jobs, growth and development. The agreement of the Finnmarks to extract the Johan Castberg field was inextricably linked to the landing requirement. This was the case with the positive decision of Finnmark Arbeiderparti, and that was also the condition of the decision of Finnmark County. For the Workers' Party, local ring effects are as important as national and regional ring effects. Therefore, it is a great pleasure today that the Storting will decide to land it. Something else would never be acceptable. Finnmark has historically been a commodity supplier. Our resources were picked up and processed elsewhere. This is unacceptable today. The Labour Party – with its rapporteur, Haukeland Liadal – has driven this case through and brought an end to the demand for local ring effects. We know that there are national ring-effects – we know that from the state budget – we know that the operating organisation has been added to Harstad, but the hope in Finnmark of local ring-effects was to disappear when Statoil delivered its PUD. The size has corrected it. It is the Stortingen that authorises the development and operation plan, and it is the Stortingen that determines how this is to be developed today, and that these must be seen in the context of the Johan Castberg development and the construction of a landing terminal at Veidnes in Finnmark, at the latest when several producing areas are set up in the Barents Sea. We know that there are several driving areas in the area, and the government has to come back by the end of 2018 for decision. This is an important day at Stortinget, for Finnmark. Non-landing is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3642	It's not every day that we in North Norway get 500 new skills jobs spread all over the country. Johan Castberg is involved in securing these jobs, plus that it will provide well over 1,700 year-olds in the development phase. The supplier industry throughout the country has secured good contracts in strong competition with international suppliers. Unfortunately, it is still the case that Nordic actors are losing the battle for the most lucrative contracts. For a long time, local actors have used considerable resources to gain the same skills as their competitors in the south, but as new players in the market and without experience to point out, they become losers. If these companies are to evolve, they're dependent on the big jobs. In addition, it is important that they are attractive to young people who are applying for a job and that they can be good training companies where you can obtain a letter of formal qualifications. It needs to be an objective in itself to further develop sea-based competence. Equinor has a special responsibility to be clear to the main suppliers that they want to attract the industry northwards, and the contract strategies of the companies in the field development must include this. The working party considers that it is important that operators choose to use Norwegian flag carriers related to the construction activity and further work. We have to be able to expect these ships to be operated with a crew that can live in the district. This requires that Norwegian pay and working conditions be taken into account. Without Norwegian seafarers, the maritime cluster is significantly weakened. The extraction of our petroleum resources shall not be based on social dumping. Equinor also has a specific responsibility to facilitate ring-effects in Norway, as the largest operator on Norwegian pedestal. The digestion of petroleum activity depends on its creation of values and job creation – throughout the country. The oil and gas on the Norwegian base are valuable resources belonging to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3655	I hear the Right-Representative Stefan Heggelund is concerned about the energy supply to the world's poor. Does he really think we're building up the Johan Castberg field to give the world the poor oil from Castberg? If the representative Heggelund had been concerned about the energy supply to the poorest – and he should have been – he would have protested loudly and clearly when the blue-blue government cut heavily in the appropriations for renewable energy to the poorest in the world, but I did not hear a single beep when it happened. I have to say I feel a little bit close with the Left today. They're not really for the extension of the Johan Castberg field. While the rest of the government hears George Michael's «Last Christmas» and perhaps thinks that this was hopefully the last Christmas with snow, the Left's representatives comfort themselves with another of George Michael's songs, where it's called «Cause I gooda have faith». As the representative of Tore Storehaug, I will also make a small visit to the Council of State with a question related to the electrification of the Edvard Grieg field and the possibilities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian oil production. The question is: can the Council confirm that the area resolution forcefully from land for the fields Johan Sverdrup, Edvard Grieg, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog means that the entire production of electricity from the gas turbines in the Edvard Grieg field is replaced by power from land, as the Stortinget unanimously adopted on 18 June 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3671	As I said in my first post: the primary policy of the left is that we will stay away from vulnerable areas, it will be profitable, and we will reduce greenhouse gas emissions from existing petroleum activity. When the representative Haltbrecken says that the left is probably against: it's hard to say, because we haven't gone through a whole area plan for the Barents Sea. It could be that this is just an area where it's possible. At least what we know is that there's profitability in it today, based on oil prices. But then we also know that there are large expenses that are not in here. It is based on vulnerability, it is based not least on climate costs and also on landing. So there's a big discussion in the future to what extent this has the socio-economic profitability that we require. But it was the representative Storehaug who made me take the floor, because the debate on electrification and phasing out of the gas turbines is an important debate. It is also the economy — and technology — to find the solutions that are making us reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and it is especially the responsibility of politicians to drive forward. It was done in the major decisions relating to Utsira, and we must continue to look at the area solutions that bring together several actors to get these solutions. So to what's more related to creating jobs in the north, which people have been involved in, the last representative Olsen. So one dimension of this that has not been said so much about so far is cold climate technology. Part of what we're doing today is moving a little bit north, and there's more expansion here. Whether it is on the Norwegian side, on the Russian side, on British pedestal or British interests, that technology is incredibly important. As I was in my post: when we're going into areas that have other climate zones, other climate dimensions, this is incredibly important. Norway also has a great opportunity to contribute to this technology. Also, what we've written about ocean winds gives opportunities – to produce hydrogen in the long term and take it into the industry. In turn, it creates opportunities for the entire North Callot, and then the challenge is to recruit young people from technology to fill jobs in the North Callot, where it is now a bit difficult – between the Nordic countries in the north – to recruit young people. We have to bear that in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3684	When a record is made of questions and comments from speakers so far in this debate, perhaps the Committee should make a change of line. But I'm going to try – quickly – to answer some of the questions that have been raised. First, to the representative Stoknes and the Green Party, who referred to the oil and gas industry as a «bullying lad»: I believe it is a strong insult to the hundreds of thousands who have contributed to the development of Norwegian oil and gas activities from zero to a world-leading base of expertise, which we have today, and an insult to the many who have contributed to the prosperity and social development that we could only have dreamed of without oil and gas. To some of the claims by the representative Stoknes, it was stated that political decisions were not being taken: no, it is completely wrong. There is hardly any industry that is as well regulated as the oil and gas industry, where all activity – from exploration and discovery to expansion and operation – has to be authorised by the authority before it can be started. In the case of the Barents Sea south-east: Yes, there was an error in an Excel sheet in the impact assessment related to the opening of the area, but in what was promoted for the Stortinget, in the bigoting message itself, there were used correct figures. It is also true that at the time of the conclusion of early contracts, following a decision in Stortinget, the Ministry of Oil and Energy is authorised to approve this for operators, precisely in order to obtain better projects, on which the representative of Eskeland was involved. So we operate according to the given decision. And it's not that the state takes any greater risk if a person accepts that early contracts are entered into. In that case, they must be concluded with the supplier industry, subject to the final approval of the development plan by the authorities, and all risks are placed on the companies. In this respect, the undersigned shall be a ‘representative of the industry’: No: ‘Retailer’ is negatively anchored, and that is probably why Stoknes uses it. What I can say is that I am honoured with value creation, I am honoured in Norwegian workplaces, but first and foremost I care for the interests of the community relating to the oil and gas business, just in line with the intention that was originally laid when the Norwegian petroleum industry policy was designed. Completely completed – to Storehaug and Haltbrecken, linked to area solution with electrification for the Utsira height: The work is done according to the plan, as from 2022, in line with what comes as phase 2 of the Johan Sverdrup field. In the case of Edvard Grieg specifically, the operator shall assess the heat demand there. And then I just have to add that there are CO 2 emissions in the sum you have to be concerned about, also from Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3700	First, in this particular case, I want to be the warmest defender of the red-green government. The Working Party, SV and the Centre did not cause any errors in the Report. St. 36 for 2012–2013, as the Greens are trying to give the impression. It's simply wrong, what he says. Then I hear the representative Lars Haltbrecken talking about public transport in Oslo. I like to talk about public transport in Oslo, no matter what kind of thing we deal with here. Although we are now in the Barents Sea, I am pleased that the City Council is continuing the strong commitment to public transport as the bourgeois city council started in the capital. What he can't answer, on the other hand, is what would happen to the global emissions if we had abolished the petroleum activity on a Norwegian base. What would happen to global emissions, what we should be concerned about as climate politicians? Would it have a big effect? No, it wouldn't. But we have strong and good regulation of a responsible petroleum industry on our base. That's good, and that's important. And then we know that countries in Europe want our gas – it also has to do with their security of supply – from Norway on their way to the renewable society. I also record that the party Red, which says they are on the workers' side, could not care less about all those who work connected or directly in the petroleum industry. SV has also voted against cooperation on renewable energy in Europe, so their climate diversity is equal to zero. Then I register that the SV and the Greens will be demanding landings today. To all those who now had to sit and follow the debate: is there anything more unprofessional than that proposal, when they simultaneously vote against the development? There are no ring-effects to trace with their policies, because it will be nothing to have ring-effects from. Talk about wanting to have in both bag and bag, talk about wanting to sell the skin without even planning to shoot a bear – yes, you have actually decided not to shoot the bear at all! Had this been a business model, it would be called fraud. Talk about firing the crow, talk about a proposal that is pearls for pigs! It cannot be valued in the whole policy. Talk about seeing ten birds on the roof. They're called on to get one of them to the hand – but they're just flying away. It's really wrong information when you vote for landing without having anything to land.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3713	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3718	First to the representative Heggelund: what would happen to global CO2 emissions if Norway had reduced its oil extraction rate? Indeed, the Statistical Central Agency, to which the representative Heggelund may have trusted, has replied: Global CO2 emissions would have fallen by a reduction in Norwegian oil production. Then I have to make a visit again to the Council of Søviknes, because I heard no answer to my question. My question was whether he can confirm that when the area solution for power is in place, he can promise that the electricity produced from the gas turbines in the Edvard Grieg field will be replaced by power from land, which the Stortinget unanimously adopted on 18 June 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3725	When the Council of Søviknes presents our position as an insult to the workers, he happily overlooks the fact that the metaphor of the giraffe came from Røjres Kåre Willoch and Terje Osmundsen, i.e. from conservative politicians, who warned against too strong a dominance from one industry, at the expense of others. We in the Green Party have a very great respect for all the thousands of oil workers who have helped to create the enormous values that we have received. We are deeply grateful to those people who have almost given their health and their lives to create those values for Norway. We would like to thank you for the oil! It has done a great deal for Norwegian well-being. This has been good. To the claims made by the representative Heggelund and the Council of State Søvikens that what we are saying is not correct: then I would like to point out that it was not just a spreadsheet error that had occurred in the previous decision-making basis. There are double counting of value creation effects; there is no present value calculation; there is no discounting. No cost of CO2 emissions has been included, no cleaning costs have been included, and there is misleading information in the summary of the impact assessment. It's the five-six faults that lie in this. In the case of Goliath, I just want to remind you that the Council of State first came up with one year, that it would be profitable from 2019, then a second year later, 2022, and then came a third year, 2024. It was then chosen to be a messenger to the industry instead of contacting the Oil Directorate, who is sitting on these figures, and to ask about this. Finally, back to the electrification, which both the representative Storehaug and the representative Haltbrecken have mentioned: What we wanted to clarify through our question was whether the Council of State could provide a guarantee that the gas turbines at Edvard Grieg will be shut down in time, in line with the unanimous decision of the Stortinge from 18 June 2015. When we asked for that guarantee, the Council of State chose to quote from its response to the Stortinget in 2011 where it says: ‘unless the Ministry decides otherwise for special reasons.’ [[...]] My question is: Does the Council of State think that this condition still applies, that is, that the department can decide for something else, even after the Storting decision in 2015 to electrify the whole? Even more directly: will the government guarantee that he will shut down both turbines on Edvard Grieg, and are these the assumptions that the operator is working on?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3740	Let me begin by stressing that the representative Stoknes referred to a warning from the venerable right-wing representatives who were mentioned that there was no need to end up with an oil and gas industry that appeared to be a gas industry. A policy was put in place precisely to avoid it — a policy that has stood firm, across parties and governments, through the development of the Norwegian oil and gas adventure. So it was the representative Stoknes himself who, at the end of his post, described that now the oil and gas industry had become the blustery breeder that someone had warned against. There's a big difference between warning – and putting a framework that doesn't mean you're going to end up there – and actually claiming that you've ended up there, as the representative Stoknes did. So to the questions about electrification of the Utsira height: It's quite correctly referred to both the 2015 decision on collapse and decision-making against the plan for the expansion and operation of Edvard Grieg a few years earlier. The whole area electrification goes as planned and will be part of the PUD for Johan Sverdrup Phase 2, which will be delivered to the Oil and Energy Ministry in the second half of this year, with a view to having everything in place from 2022. Then, at the latest today – for those who have joined us – there has been a playback from Equinor that you will consider whether Sleipner, and possibly the Gudrun platform, can get an electrification via Gina Krogh, which is one of the four platforms at the Utsira height, to be electrified in 2022. In the case of Edvard Grieg specifically, the operator considers the heat demand – how to cover it – after the electrification has been carried out in 2022. They have then said that they will wait until 2020 before presenting their solution for the reconstruction of the Edvard Grieg platform. I think it is important that we both have the 2012 decision, and the PUD, and the 2015 decision of the Stortinget with us in the work that is now being done to ensure full electrification of the Utsira height – and that we are open to see whether there are solutions that emerge from the time the decisions were taken, and until this is realized, which actually helps to get even greater CO 2 emissions from Norwegian base by thinking a little differently and seeing things in context. In that case, it must be a good one. I am at least concerned that we will get the most back for the electrification that is now to be done at the Utsira height in terms of reduced CO 2 emissions. For it is essential for Norwegian oil and gas activities to continue, it is both ‘low-cost’ and ‘low-carbon’. Then we have to think completely, and we have to think rationally, but so far I am working after the decision of the Stortinget, that both gas turbines in the Edvard Grieg field should be shut down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3759	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 17–33 is treated as a single agent. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3954	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3967	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e3976	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Environment Party Dei Green and Red proposal No 2, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Center Party proposal No 3, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red Proposal No. 3 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to fix the tax rate for withholding taxes on foreign workers for a temporary stay of 26 p.m. in the context of the draft State budget for 2019.’ The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e4005	Proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reconsider the proposed changes in taxation and reporting on benefits in kind and return to Stortinget with a new proposal that takes account of the broad tax base and the simplification of reporting.’; Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e4022	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 21 December 2007 No 199 on customs duties and on imports of goods are amended as follows: [[Customs Act]] Paragraphs 5 to 9 are deleted. II In Law 19 June No. 58 on value added tax is amended as follows: [[VAT Act]] The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 7-2 shall be replaced by the following: VAT shall not be calculated when the goods referred to in the first subparagraph of Section 5-1 of the Customs Act, § 5-2, first subparagraph, points (b) and (c), § 5-3, § 5-4, first subparagraph, points (a), (c), (d), (f) and (g), § 5-5, § 5-6 and point (e) of the first paragraph of Section 5-7 are imported. [[1]] III The amendments in I and II shall enter into force on 1 August 2018.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5376	K III and W II are being voted on. The centre party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5390	It is contested by S II § 5-4, first paragraph, and Y IV. The center party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5405	It's going to be grazed over Y V. The Labour Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5419	So it's going to be over A even Å, all the Roman numerals and paragraphs with the exception of the Romantic and the paragraphs it's already written over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5429	It's going to go above the heading of the laws and laws at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5439	Law decisions will be passed until second processing is carried out in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5448	During the debate, Ingrid Heggø presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit, without delay, proposals for legislative decisions postponing the implementation of Law No 19 December 2017. 118 on changes in property taxes with effect from the fiscal year 2020.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5470	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5510	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Party on the Environment proposed no. 4 and 5, by Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party Proposal No. 4 and 5 from the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose, as soon as possible and late in the context of the 2019 State Budget, to reverse the increase in the levy on sugar and chocolate products and non-alcoholic beverages adopted through the treatment of the State budget for 2018.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government has requested the Government to come back to the Stortinget since 2019 with proposals for changes to the charging system that promote producers that reduce the sugar content of their products.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5541	Proposal No. 1-3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is late asking the Government to return to the Stortinget in the context of the State budget for 2019 with proposals for changes in fees that can contribute to the strengthening of public health, stressing that the changes will create a long-term perspective for Norwegian business.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government has requested the Government to return to Stortinget in the context of the State budget for 2019 with a proposal to abolish the system of duty-free private imports for consignments below SEK 350 to strengthen Norwegian business and provide more jobs in Norway.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is late asking the government to return to the Stortinget in the context of the State budget for 2019 with proposals to provide more knowledge and statistics on border trade and its scope, so that in the future better decisions can be taken for Norwegian consumers, Norwegian industry and public health.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5575	Right, the Progress Party and the Left have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5591	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environment Party proposal No 2, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the amount of the public deficit in the context of the 2019 draft government budget and, in addition, to provide an assessment of the functioning of today’s curtailment on the basis of an objective of giving more opportunities to work more.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5615	Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to increase the amount of the non-recovery in the new Member States’. Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5639	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5653	I was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5658	Then we take the vote again. So Red has a message that they want to fight back.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5676	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Environment Party Dei Green and Red proposed no. 2 and 3, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Environment Party Dei Green and Red proposal No 4, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party proposed no. 5 and 6, by Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party and Red proposed no. 7–13, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposal No 14, by Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Environment Party Dei Green proposal No 15, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 15, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to open up the possibility for SPU to invest in unlisted infrastructure as proposed by the Bank of Norway, with small investments in developed countries with a high degree of security at first, in order to gain experience and build skills.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5715	Proposal No. 14, from the Christian People's Party and the Environmental Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose the establishment of an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad [[SPU]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5730	Proposal No. 7-13, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether Norway’s Bank can deviate more significantly from the reference index when it is required to implement effective responsible management and the ownership dialogue does not result.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the inclusion of unethical tax practices and tax evasion among the extractive criteria in the SPU ethical guidelines.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a proposal to amend the observation and exclusion guidelines of State pension funds abroad in such a way as to ensure that: Companies building or planning to build new coal-fired power stations may be excluded from the Fund. Power companies whose coal power exceeds 30 pst. power generation may be excluded from the fund. Companies producing more than 20 million tonnes of thermal coal annually may be excluded from the Fund.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether the coal criterion and the operationalisation of the criterion are appropriate to avoid the fund investing in companies that construct or plan to build new coal-fired power stations and extract large quantities of coal.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to instruct the Bank of Norway to log and publish meetings with companies, to record themes that have been addressed, to assess the expected impact, progress and results of ownership dialogues.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to instruct Norway’s Bank to publish country-by-country reports from companies on its websites.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to refer to the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights and to International Labour Organization Convention No. 169 as the basis for the SPU Ethics Guidelines for Investment.’ [[SP]] [[ILO-169]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5788	Proposal No. 5 and 6 from the Center Party and Red. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up guidelines requiring that a maximum part of the Fund’s activities be carried out from Norway.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks that the activities of the oil fund in Norway be more widely disseminated so that it can participate in the whole country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5810	Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the basis for withdrawing State pension funds abroad from alcohol companies.’ [[SPU]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5826	Proposal No. 2 and 3, from the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the human rights dimension of the Ethics Framework and its enforcement. The evaluation will have to assess whether SPU’s risk analyses provide robust enough basis for investment decisions, especially in countries with serious human rights violations and a lack of transparency. Furthermore, the evaluation must include a fundamental discussion of the risks associated with investment in state-owned companies in closed, repressive countries and a discussion of the risks associated with ownership of telecommunications companies in countries with lack of legal certainty and widespread surveillance.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new and more thorough review of the possibility of developing ethical guidelines for SPU’s investment in government bonds, on the basis of which the transparency criteria of the issuer countries are based.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5848	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up proposals for mandates for SPUs to invest in non-listed renewable energy infrastructure, with the same transparency, return and risk requirements as for other investments in SPUs, and to return to Stortinget with the proposal in spring 2019 and with an assessment of whether investments should be made inside or outside environmental mandates.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5903	A total of nine proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Environment Party Dei Green proposed no. 2 and 3, by Sigbjørn Gülsvik on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposal No 4, from Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Labour Party proposal No 5, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposal No 6, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Center Party and Red proposed no. 7 and 8, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Party proposal No 9, from Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Labour Party Proposal No. Four were withdrawn during the debate. Proposal No. 7 and 8, by the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to determine how the possibility of selling receivables affects the market for consumer loans, whether it means that people who are unable to pay receive consumer loans and whether it is appropriate to limit the sale of receivables for unsecured consumption debts.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to determine whether it is appropriate to make provision for unsecured loans to be recovered only by means of a so-called equity deposit fund, i.e. that the creditor must operate the collection and collection business itself.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5951	Proposal No. 6 from the Center Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider how to reintroduce the shadowing scheme and what steps the size and government can take to achieve this, and to return to Stortinget by spring 2019 at the latest.’ The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5968	Proposal No. 5, from the Center Party, the Environment Party Dei Green and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the setting up of a public inquiry to assess the need for new solutions and rules to ensure cash access.’ The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e5985	Proposal No. 2 and 3, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to further reduce banks’ access to risk outside the core business.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to identify different interest rate caps models in Norway and to return to Stortinget with a recommended model in the Financial Market Communication 2019.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e6007	Proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for different models of an interest rate cap in Norway and to come back with this in the Financial Market Communication 2019.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already given subsidiary support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e6025	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Environment Party Dei Green. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the government to promote its own growth message for the financial industry, which shows a comprehensive industrial policy for the industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e6050	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e6116	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to evaluate and inform the Storting about the concrete consequences of the government’s welfare cuts as the ABE reform, and to present the consequences of each department and state enterprise in proposals for the 2019 government budget.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size of the government’s proposals for the 2019 government budget provides a projection showing the overall impact of the so-called ABE reform on all public sector bodies and other relevant entities if the reform continues the current period of enlargement, until 2025 and until 2030.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in future proposals for the State budget to make the overall ABE cuts visible to all relevant entities since the introduction of the ‘reform’.’ These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e6188	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-7, by Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose changes to the Training Act in order to clarify the relationship between national and local education authorities’ management of the school and the teacher’s professional space.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce a trust reform in the school based on the general principles set out in Document 8:194 S [[2017-2018]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a selection in which the parties, teacher training institutions, students, teacher students, school owners and school leaders are represented, to review the national quality assessment system in the school, and its use in the municipalities, which, by spring 2019 at the latest, submit proposals for changes in accordance with the principles of trust reform.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the overall scope of monitoring, measurement, reporting and documentation requirements at national and local level to be reduced in order to ensure the time of the learner and the capacity for action of the learner.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of today’s examination system in connection with the school renewal and how, overall, the position assessment and examination can provide reliable and relevant information on the students’ competence.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the parties, is asked to draw up a concrete and committed plan for strengthening the professional community in school, without jeopardising teachers’ own time for pre- and post-school work.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that employment agreements with school principals and principals cannot contain detailed target requirements and indicators relating to student outcomes’.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e6265	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e6284	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already provided subsidiary support for the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e6314	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-7, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposed no. 8-12, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 13, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Environment Party Dei Green Proposal No. 13, from the Environmental Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The fact is that the efforts of the Minister of Oil and Energy to clear up the misinformation of the management of petroleum to the Storting, the use of figures and the lack of respect for the competence of the Storting to provide a framework for the petroleum industry are critical.’ The Socialist Left and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e6343	Proposal No. 8, 9 and 11, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting that plans for the expansion and operation of all new petroleum fields be fully examined by the government on the basis of a development concept in which the condition is the use of power from land-solution or other renewable energy supply for the power and heat needs of the field’.» [[PUD]] Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is requesting that plans for the expansion and operation of all new petroleum fields ensure the use of power from land-solution or other renewable energy supply for the power and heat demand for the operation of the field.’;» [[PUD]] Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that an additional investigation is carried out for the Johan Castberg field, where the power and heat requirements for the operation of the field are covered by power-from-country or other renewable or emission-free energy supply, and that they are implemented and submitted before Prop. [[2017-2018]] 80 S to be finalised.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e6370	Proposal No. 10 and 12 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to impose on the use of Norwegian oil and gas and Norwegian Industry’s negotiated standard contracts when petroleum fields are extended.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government requests the following new conditions for the approval of the plan for the development and operation of the Johan Castberg field: Rightholders shall implement a programme to ensure technology development and qualification of technologies for the transfer of large quantities of power to production ships. The time frame for implementation is set by the Directorate of Oil. The rightholders shall provide a plan for the implementation of a shore-based area resolution. The time frame for implementation is set by the Directorate of Oil.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e6398	Proposal No. 1-7, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that substantial contractual obligations are not entered into and construction work is not started until the plan for the development and operation of a petroleum expansion is approved.’;» [[PUD]] Proposal No 2 reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to prepare profitability calculations for the country after tax effects in assessing all future investments on Norwegian soil and that these estimates are included in the assessment basis when new investments are to be treated in Stortinget’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with socio-economic calculations of the Castberg project including the real climate risks and costs.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose a change to ‘Guide to the plan for the development and operation of a petroleum body and plan for the installation and operation of equipment for the transport and utilisation of petroleum’. [[PUD]] [[PAD]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the landing of oil from the Johan Castberg field to Finnmark to trigger local ring effects.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the suspension of further licensing until the Storting has been properly informed and the opening of the Barents Sea can be properly assessed.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the United Kingdom with new estimates of deposits and socio-economic profitability related to the South-East Barents Sea. It is assumed, inter alia, that: the inclusion in the calculations of a correct CO 2 price, assuming inclusion in the cost of achieving the 2-degree target. The social costs of global warming are also assumed to be taken into account in the calculations.’» Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e6476	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e6492	Case No. 17–33 are the second processing of legal acts and debts of legislative acts 67 to 83. There are no comments suggested. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been accepted for the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-11.ana.ud186e6545	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
