ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e39	Before we start, the President will inform you that, in meeting the group leaders yesterday about the implementation of the oral questioning procedure, she had an evaluation of the Rules of Procedure. The Test Arrangement will be continued with some adjustments and the Presidency will shortly put an end to the necessary changes in Storting’s Rules of Procedure. On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Council of State, Siv Jensen, Foreign Minister, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and the Council of State, Anniken Hauglie, will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Rigmor Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e50	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. The social partners have recently agreed on a collective agreement. At the same time, they have found solutions to unfair parts of the AFP scheme in the private sector. This year's settlement has been an important step towards a better and more forward-looking pension. It is uplifting to see how the parties find together and use tariffs to counteract unfair differences in the labour market. But not all pension flakes are solved. In the case of changes to the compulsory occupational pension scheme, the ball has been transferred to accumulation and government. Today it is optional if the employer pays a pension for those who make less than 1G, which is well 93 000 kroner. So the employer doesn't have to pay the pension for the first payroll. Those between the ages of 13 and 20 are also not allowed to participate in the scheme. The same applies to those with small job breaks. If you are not in the same job for more than 12 months, you will not be paid out either. Pension provision from the first penny and from the first hour is an important social issue. It is primarily about young people, about people in small positions and about those who earn the worst. But employees with general wages are also receiving little occupational pension for that reason. Earnings a 400000 kroner, the amount of one’s service is estimated at only NOK 307000 in the case of compulsory occupational pension. In addition, we know that arranging pension schemes is good for keeping working order and having a serious working life. The Labour Party will take up the fight that people in private companies will also receive pensions for every penny they earn. Does the Council agree that it is unfair that the compulsory occupational pension scheme does not provide service provision for the first 93 000 kroner, when this has been amended in other legislation regulating the pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e63	Let me first say that the government is of course prepared to contribute the necessary investigative capacity to the cooling water of the agreement in the wage settlement. I see that the representative, Rigmor Aasrud, really asks, is the ongoing work on private occupational retirement provision. The question of a separate pension account has been investigated by a working group consisting of members from two ministries and the Financial Supervisory Authority. They made their report in December 2016. Then, from the Ministry of Finance's side through 2017, we had two meetings with the reference group and have developed draft legislative changes. Such draft legislative changes, concerning both the pension account and the repeal of the 12-month rule, were sent at the hearing in November last year, with the consultation deadline at the end of February of the current year. I feel that there is a broad consensus in the consultation on the need for a separate pension account, but then there are slightly different views on some other technical issues about this. The government will come back to Stortinget with a follow-up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e72	I am aware of the hearing to which the Council of State refers, and in that hearing, the Council of State has heard of lifting the rule that more than 12 months have been required to take part in the pension provision. But my question was not about that part of the change. I ask the Council of State: does the Council of State think it's fair not to earn money for the first 93 000 kroner? It's another part of the whole complex, which I'm recording that the Council of State has not heard, even though it was a topic in the working group that worked in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e77	There is a question the government has not taken a decision on. I have registered that there was an important question, not least from the employee's side, in the negotiations, but I do not think I can answer anything else about it now than that we must be allowed to come back to this from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e82	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Fredrik Holen Bjørdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e87	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. As Aasrud's representative said, pension raising from the first penny and the first hour is an important social issue. The Labour Party will take up the fight to ensure that women, younger workers and temporary workers are also remunerated from each of the crowns of their teeth. This is also about the seriousness of working life. Today's rules help many employers who base their business on temporary contracts to pay into the service pension scheme. This is a competitive disadvantage for the serious companies with fixed, secure settings, and it is an advantage typical of the agency. The Minister of Labour is constantly out in the newspapers and announces a fight against unprofessional employment, without the Storting looking so much at the concrete political results of it. Does the Minister of Labour agree that if everyone receives a service pension of each krone they will say for the serious working life, and shouldn't it be a battle cause for the Minister of Labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e96	Public service pensions are under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, but in the settlement of the weekend's salary, we have seen that the nature of the compulsory occupational pension in private enterprises has also been one of the major issues between the parties. As the Minister of Finance pointed out, the government has sent out several proposals for amendments at the hearing. But the formation of wages is the responsibility of the parties, and I am committed to respecting what the parties agree on in the wage settlements. The government has put in place a number of other measures to combat unprofessional actors and to limit, inter alia: rent. A separate proposition whether it has recently been sent to the Stortinget for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e105	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e110	I can follow up with the Minister of Labour, because SV believes that old and disabled people should have a pension that can be taken care of. More and more people need more jobs to live, and it turns out to be the pension for a lot of people. It's about cleaning and hotel and restaurant, it's about those who work in the merchandise trade – that's people who earn little initially, and who are then hit by not getting a pension on the first few dollars they earn. Now we can also read that the Minister of Labour believes that the unemployed are to be unloaded into the manpower industry, and yesterday the Minister of Labour came with a proposition that will allow the manpower industry to have only temporary employees. Does the Minister of Labour not see that this will lead even further into a labour market where they do not receive service, and that the lowest paid will have lower pension conditions on the basis of this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e120	We have made several proposals in the Working Environment Act now to change or reduce the level of unwanted rent, and to strengthen the predictability of employees through the proposition to which the representative also refers. I believe that we have found a good balance between the need for employees to tighten up and the need for employers to be fully legitimate in terms of renting. With regard to public service pension, we have now reached an agreement with the parties. The agreement is now in consultation with the organisations and is to be anchored there. There we have made a number of changes that will both make more people keep the pension, that more people will get a pension that they have paid for, as opposed to before, in addition to having a supplement for the employees who want to leave earlier. But that part is now anchoring in the organizations, and then we will come back to Stortinget when it is finally settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e127	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e132	That was not what the Council of State was asked about. State councils were asked if she sees the need for changes in the private sector pension system, as negotiated, precisely because the working life in which some people have to go, namely short contracts and the need to have more jobs in order to cope, means that many end up with a pension that is ultimately unviable. Is the government prepared to contribute to or support legislative proposals in Stortinget to close it down — especially because the government is going through its policies, including: i Prop. 73 L for 2017-2018, which was presented yesterday, promotes that the staffing industry, which is increasing and which has small posts, should no longer be subject to permanent employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e137	I totally disagree with the premise on the representative's question. The government does not promote in any way an unprofessional working life nor encourages more temporary employment or precarious jobs. This proposition is the opposite, and will define both fixed employment in law and make it more difficult to employ as before. We remove the possibility of the so-called zero-hour contracts. Then we see that there are also legitimate needs to rent in, among other things. when there are real vicariates, and the home we are now opening up to the recruitment agencies, is about the possibility when there are real vicariates. In the case of compulsory occupational retirement provision, it is under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. She said in her main response that you look at changes there. In that case, the government will come back to Storting when that proposition is ready. We agree that it is important to have good pension solutions, but we also believe it is important that businesses themselves decide on the scheme within their economic framework and their competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e148	We go to the next main question – from the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e153	The case concerns the position of temporary agency companies in the future Norwegian working life. These are enterprises that are not followers of permanent employment for their people, and they are not apprentices. They are therefore fundamentally breaking up with what is happening in Norwegian working life, a well-organised working life that provides the basis for a safe family life. The question is whether the Storting should facilitate manning enterprises in the Working Environment Act. If yes, what role and rules shall be applicable to manning undertakings in order to avoid unfair competition? The centre batch has never been subject to a ban on manning undertakings. Other parties have called for a ban, but have not proposed it. The ones about it. Manning enterprises started to meet a need for temporary workers. It was and the Center Party agreed that it should continue. This is regulated by the Working Environment Act § 14-12(b). [[1]] The question therefore arises as to which employment contracts are to be required by law in these cases. So far, there has been regular employment in the rental company, i.e. the manning company. But then NHO Service and Handels have developed this and introduced the employment contract ‘Standed without pay between jobs’. With a little bit more thought, everyone understands that this is just another word for callers, i.e. no real fixed employment. The government makes these employment contracts illegal by correctly defining permanent employment and then including it in the Working Environment Act § 14-9. The centre party is, of course, in favour of this amendment of the law. But then the government releases the cats out of the bag: the manning companies will get a special rule about the right to hire their people for temporary jobs when they are leased on to temporary jobs. In the opinion of the Centre Party, there must be permanent employment in recruitment agencies. If it does not work, the agencies can provide labour and thus meet the need for temporary workers. Why can't the Council of State support such a line?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e168	The question of renting is perhaps one of the issues that I have spent most time on, and that there has been the most discussion about, both in this room and between the parties. We have had a lot of dialogue and many processes with the parties. The challenge has been that the parties have stood very far apart both in terms of reality and in terms of what they consider necessary to resolve what is agreed, namely the undesirable use of rentals. What we have been concerned about when we are about to put forward our own proposition has just been to balance the different considerations, both the workers' need for predictability – to get rid of the so-called zero-hour contracts, where there is no pay between jobs – and to take care of the legitimate needs of employment and business, either when there are vicariates, when there are peaks or when there is uncertainty as to how the volume of tasks will look in the future. What we sent out to the hearing last summer, and this proposition that I made yesterday, we think is just a balanced balance between the different reasons. We will both clarify fixed employment in the law, need stricter demands on what it means to be a permanent employee in order to ensure precisely the predictability of workers, and also the possibility of working life to hire staff when they need it. This home that we've now given to the recruitment agencies is just to be able to cover up real vicariates. Nor can temporary employment be unlimited. There is also a narrowing, and I believe that we have managed to find a good balance. In addition, we have proposed raising the level of contracts in the construction industry. This is the industry I also experience that there has been a cross-political agreement that the problems have been greatest in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e179	I noticed that the Council of State did not answer my question. That was another option I referred to. It is true that one has to put significant emphasis on what the parties are asking for, and the parties here are mainly NHO and LO. They are the most prominent. The two legal frameworks of the Working Environment Act which provide the basis for manning companies are the first paragraph of Section 14-12 and the second paragraph of Section 14-12. On March 15th, the parties agreed to the changes in the law promoted by the Central Party at the time. They had full support. Similarly, the Centre Party received support for the proposal for a new third paragraph of paragraphs 14 to 12, which ensures that the employee is paid according to the percentage of the employment of temporary staff every month, as well as payment for extra time/overtime in the months in which more work than the agreed rate of employment has been carried out. It's not like that today. This point is essential to improve competition. Why hasn't the government fixed it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e184	It should be borne in mind that when the parties discussed a way of resolving this, the option was a prohibition. The big discussion in the Storting and outside has been about having a ban on rentals. If that was what was at risk of adoption in Stortinget, the parties wanted to come up with another option, as the representative Lundtigen also refers to. We wanted to concentrate the strongest restriction on rentals in the construction industry because it is where I perceive that Stortinget believes the problem is greatest. That was the industry proposal for a ban that we dealt with a couple of weeks ago, applied within, and that is where I also perceive that the parties themselves perceive that the challenge is the greatest. We have been committed to solving the problems where they are the largest and most comprehensive – and where there is a cross-political consensus that they are the largest – and I believe that through the proposals we have made to the Stortinget now we have been able to find a good balance between the different reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e189	There will be follow-up questions – first Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e194	As I said, several parties have supported bans outside this Chamber, but have not promoted bans in this Chamber. The Centre Party has not proposed a ban on manning companies. We have made proposals to limit the scope of action of crew companies under the law. The use of manning companies in relation to vicariates is enshrined in the Working Environment Act § 14-12, first paragraph, and we have suggested this in particular. My question now was related to the employment contracts in the manpower industry that today do not guarantee that the employment rate of the job is paid according to the job rate each month, regardless of the working situation. Why does the Council of State not correct that point – a point that leads to unfair competition between the companies using manning agencies and those using their own employees who have to pay their people according to their employment rate, regardless of the employment situation of the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e202	The most critical form of the contract is the so-called zero-hour contract, or fixed-term employment without pay between assignments. They will not be able to include the proposal that we have now put on the table. In addition, through the requirements we set for permanent employment, we have ensured that the work plan must be so detailed that it gives the predictability that we believe is necessary and important for the employees to have. The feedback we have received from the parties is that the proposal we have presented is a good one. Both parties are not 100 pst. agree on everything, but we have managed to balance the different considerations in a good way. There's also a difference between us in the hall. Some do not want recruitment agencies, while we believe that the recruitment agencies are a good supplement. In addition, it is good for the companies and businesses that need to hire workers if necessary, and it is good for many of those who are out of work and want a foot on the inside or a different form of connection than being permanently employed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e209	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e214	A well-organised working life is a prerequisite for a good family life, and both working life and family life in Norway are under great pressure. At work by job, in areas by region, in occupation by occupation, problems are increasing. In meeting with this, the government is passive. It's not just passive – it's reluctant. The Council of State here points out that one has put forward a proposal to tighten the second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act, to extend the possibility of renting, and that only the trade unions in the construction sector should have the right to set-aside. Why should one limit it to it when the majority in the Grand Duchy before Easter said that one should look at this in all sectors? Why should one just do it in the industry that is being judged today to have the biggest problem, when the problem is big in many industries, and when the government itself clearly acknowledges that it is an active measure? Why should a just jump after and run with fire extinguisher where the problems are greatest, instead of being in the forefront?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e219	I think initially I just have to say that the amount of temporary employment and rental is relatively limited. It's been relatively stable, and it's actually fallen in recent years. So there's not a massive increase in any of these forms of connection. On the contrary, it is stable and there is even a decrease in the extent of this type of association. Let me make it clear. I believe that, just through the proposal we have now made, the trade union movement is coming a long way in terms of what has been their main demand, namely more predictability in the permanent jobs. When we wanted to limit this to the construction industry, it is because it has been the industry where both political Norway and the trade union movement and the social partners themselves have thought that the problem has been the greatest. Just a few weeks ago, the Stortinget dealt with a proposal to ban hiring from recruitment agencies in the construction industry in the Oslo area, because even geographically, it is believed that it is where the problem is greatest. We need to solve the problems in the construction sector, where the problems are greatest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e226	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e231	In several of the areas where Stortinget has demanded something close to regulating the hire and manning industry, the Council of State has not delivered. The only thing that the previous question showed is that one limits the right of trade unions to have the right to set-up to only apply to the construction industry. The second is that the Labour Inspectorate does not have any clear supervisory and sanctioning powers attached to illegal accommodation. We also see in this case that they give an exclusive and extended right to the agency to temporarily assign people, even when they have a fixed and ongoing need for labour, i.e. when the whole business idea is based on a firm and ongoing need for labour. In other words, the government gives the manning industry a right that no other employer has. My question is quite simply: why this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e238	Let me start by saying a little bit about the storywriting here: the proposition we made yesterday is not an answer to the Document 8 proposals that were adopted in the Storting four weeks ago. The proposition that we made yesterday is a follow-up to the hearing that the government sent out last June. Of course, we have also referred to what was adopted in the Storting two weeks ago, to be sure that we were also able to follow up and catch up on what was adopted at that time. Some of what was adopted by the Stortinget two weeks ago, we have not been able to fully investigate, among other things. the issue of new sources of employment supervision for the supervision of private-law matters, which the Labour Inspectorate does not currently have. When we've wanted to expand the possibility of temporary employment for agencies, it's simply because you remove the possibility of the contract form that's been the most common, and to ensure that it's still possible to rent out real vicariates, there was an opportunity to solve that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e245	Eirik Faret Sakariassen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e250	If the Council of State believes that permanent employment should be the general rule in working life, one cannot just stand there and see that the recruitment industry continues to increase for each year running. The LO summer patrol tells of young people who do not dare join trade unions because they can risk not being called in on Monday after. More than half of all new jobs in the construction industry are provided by recruitment agencies. It creates uncertainty; it is difficult for young people in the start-up phase to get loans. Is this a development the Council of State will accept to continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e257	Let me repeat what I said in my previous answer: it gives the impression here that the main rule in Norwegian working life is currently loose forms of connection. It's not. There is a relatively small amount of both rental and temporary employment. 1.5 pst. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That number has been stable for many years, and it has even fallen. It's a smaller amount of it now, in terms of number and share, than it was when we became a government. But we have seen that there has been an increasing increase in some industries and in some areas of the country, and that is what we wanted to address in the proposition we have made. We have had a long and good dialogue with the social partners that this concerns most, and we believe that we have managed to reach a good compromise that takes care of both of these considerations. But the general rule should be fixed employment, and that's fixed employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e262	Steinar Reiten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e268	The proposal on changes to the Labour Environment Act, as presented yesterday by the government, proposes important clarifications as regards the definition of ‘permanent employment’. It is established that employment is continuous and unlimited, that the rules of the law on termination of employment apply, and that workers are to be guaranteed predictability of work in the form of a real scope of employment. We in the Christian People's Party are satisfied with the clarifications so far, but we also see that an important word is missing, a word that is important to ensure Norwegian families financial security in everyday life. The government will ensure the worker predictability of work, but not predictability of income in the new recast legal text. Several hearing bodies point out that the government does not go far enough in its proposal to ensure the worker's predictability of wages. Can the Council of State briefly explain why the government has not taken account of these consultation opinions and why a legislative amendment is proposed that could lead to the continuation of a practice in which permanent employees do not have a fixed and predictable income?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e277	We believe that, through the clarifications we now come up with on what permanent employment should be, and what the work plan should contain, we give workers just good predictability and good assurance of what they can expect from the work they receive. In the past, the employer has been at his disposal without knowing whether to attend the job, and possibly when to attend the job. We are now removing this possibility through the proposal we have. In this way, we believe, of course, that we will ensure that workers are just sure and predictable when they are working, where they are going to work, and to what extent they are going to work, which, of course, will also give predictability of income. It's been something of the purpose. You can always discuss how detailed the law should be. We believe that we have now found some clear clarifications that meet the needs of employees for protection and predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e282	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e287	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. There is time for both budgetary conferences and national meetings, and the government parties have in a number of different approaches announced tighter times in Norway. Everyone doesn't get, the Minister of Finance announces. One might wonder, then, whether there is a warning that everyone with a million income will no longer receive massive tax relief, or that the government will close the tax system gaps, where international companies by aggressive tax planning move large profits out of the country and thus avoid taxes to the community. But no. If you read a little more, you can see that the head of the finance committee is in favour of tightening up the health pay system and increasing the proportion of people in health care. It is not unnatural that the space for action is smaller after the five-year celebration that has taken place, with tax relief to the richest and massive use of oil money – a party that results in increased differences, cut into future savings and less room for action. At the same time, over the last few years, we've seen that children have less to walk with. Those who have lost the job are taxed on the termination benefit. Chronically ill, burned and amputated have lost the right to free physical therapy. And I could still do that. So the question to the Minister of Finance is, who's not going to get it now? Who's going to have to tighten the belt now? Are they the ones that have the most, or are they the ones that have already gotten less?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e294	It may be good to start this answer by reminding us that Norwegian economy is actually doing well. The growth is on its way up. Freedom is on its way down. Employment is increasing. It is simply good, positive feedback from a broad business community. It's okay. One of the reasons for this is that the government has conducted an effective fiscal policy, where we have made sure to get through quickly the consequences of the oil price drop that hit Norway in 2014. The representative Kaski makes several claims that this government has prioritised giving tax relief to the rich. That's not right. We have prioritised giving tax relief to the companies, but I would like to remind you that about half of the relief that this government has provided has gone to persons with income less than NOK 600,000. So it's fairly evenly distributed. So the question is, who's going to get less now? What I've tried to be clear about with the rest of the government is that we can't just keep adding to all the good purposes. In fact, we need to give priority to what is most important when we address a situation where there are more elderly people who are going to confiscate more resources. It's about care and care. It's about health expenditure. It's about retirement, not least. There are important tasks for this government to finance. But then we also have to admit that when things are going better in the Norwegian economy, we also give less gas, for example. in order to ensure the good competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises now. It is one of the most important things we do to facilitate more jobs and security for the family economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e301	What I hear here is just a confirmation that the policy that has led to increased differences in the United States and Europe, with tax cuts to the richest and cut in welfare, is going to continue. It is not that the government has simply spent money for good purposes. They have also faced a policy of a wide range of unsocial cuts over the last few years. There is reason to remember that the richest in society are the ones that are left with the most. The 1,600 wealthiest have received tax reliefs of nearly NOK 600 000 each. Then the question is, where are the priorities of this government? The Chairman of the Financial Committee has announced that there will only be tax reliefs of about 1 to 2 billion. kr. Then there is reason to recall a proposal that SV has made, which also costs between 1 and 2 billion. kr, i.e. to increase child-responsiveness. At a time when the number of poor kids is growing, it might be wise for the government to consider whether to give priority to welfare for the many rather than tax cuts for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e306	It's a little challenging when I and the government get the responsibility for increasing differences in the United States and Europe. Norway is one of the few countries in the world that distinguishes themselves with small differences. We do that because we have tax-funded welfare schemes, where we use different mechanisms to redistribute people in our country. It stands out well, and that is the broad political consensus on it. So I have to be allowed to say that I think it's unreasonable to try to create the impression that government's policy leads to increased differences. That's not right. The right thing is that the proportion of families and children living in poverty is increasing, and this is due in particular to growth in the number of immigrant families. That is why it is important to ensure the integration of the government on the agenda. It's about learning Norwegian, getting a job, getting a ton of your own family and being integrated into the Norwegian community. It is one of the most important things we can do to prevent more children from growing up in poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e311	There will be follow-up questions – first Kari Elisabeth Kaski.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e316	Growth in child poverty is driven by growth in the number of ethnic Norwegian children who live more in poverty. It's worth bringing in. The policy is well-tested in the United States and in Europe. It has led to increased differences, and we can learn from that. Another proposal for tax relief from the government, which has been addressed by several members of the Progress Party, is that the possibility of taxing property around the municipalities should be limited. In the government platform, the government determines that property taxes are to be capped for cabins, and the fight against property taxes adopted in local democracy is announced by the elected representatives. When the Progress Party does not like what the people decide, it might be a matter of looking at how democracy is practiced, and who is practicing it. Financial figures, Helge André Njåstad, in the Progress Party, propose double voting for those who have cabins so that they can vote both where they live and in the municipality where they have cabins. My question to the Minister of Finance is, how much does the cabin have to cost to trigger a double vote? What's the size of the cabin?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e323	Here, there was a big gap — from definitions of increasing differences in property taxes to property taxes. Let me first say that it is at least a fact that Oslo has the largest proportion of children in low-income families. Eight out of ten children in the low income group have a migrant background. So claiming that it's not one of the main drivers, the main challenges, in terms of child poverty, is wrong. So to the issue of property taxes: one of the main reasons why the Progress Party and this government are taking action to reduce property taxes is that it is fundamentally unsocial. It's really a way of taxing that affects people regardless of whether they have much or little in income. I think it would have been experienced as a significant handshake to many families with poor finances if the taxpayer we see in very many municipalities was stagnated. It has been our ambition, both through the government platform and what we have done in the past, to reduce the ability of municipalities to charge high property taxes, and I intend to continue the fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e330	Ingrid Hegø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e336	The action space for well-being is, of course, weak, as the representative Kaski said here, because of the tax burden. It almost has to be taken over by the government. In ABC News on April 7th, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen said to cut sickle bean creates differences. Is the Council of State agreeing to cut the sickle bean creating differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e343	This government has not called for changes in the sickness pay scheme. The fact that some parties discuss it at their national meetings may be so, but this government has not addressed and does not have in its platform ambitions to make changes to the health pay scheme. So until the claim that the action space is now weakened as a result of the government giving tax relief. I totally disagree with that. One of the reasons why the Norwegian economy is now getting better, that the arrows have turned around, that more people are coming to work, that fewer people are going out of work, that businesses are reporting on optimism and increased investment, is that we have reduced taxes, so that it is easier to operate with competitive conditions. It has been an important part of the framework conditions – together with strengthening the municipality’s economy, strengthening the hospitals’ economy, having record investments in road and infrastructure appropriations. All of this we know makes a good contribution to the growth economy, and that's why the government has done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e350	My question was: Is the Council of State agreed that cutting the sick pay will create differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e355	I actually answered that. It's not this government's policy to cut sick pay. If I had meant it, I would probably have fought for it too. The sick pay scheme is a good system, as there is a broad political consensus that we should take care of in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e362	Can I then say that the Council of State will satisfy the sickness scheme during this period, and that one can subtract more from trade union deductions, as they actually have written on the Jeløya platform? Can I say that there will also be a cure for the sick during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e367	Why is the representative Heggø trying to create uncertainty on this issue? The Prime Minister has been very clear about this, and I am quite clear about it: this is not part of the government's policy. There's not a word about it in our government platform, so I'm really just wondering why the representative Heggø wants to create uncertainty about that issue, all the time there's a broad political consensus that we have a good health pay scheme in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e372	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e377	I have to say, it is quite imaginative of the Minister of Finance to claim that tax credits in Norway have been fairly evenly distributed during this government. While people with normal employee income have received a few dollars a day in tax relief, the 50 richest in Norway have received tens of millions in tax relief each. There's no even distribution. On the contrary, there have been extensive tax reliefs to those who have the most from before, and then have received tax increases for most people. There have been tax increases on fuel, public transport, culture, electricity taxes — a total of 6.6 billion. kr, according to Siv Jensen's own figures. On top of that, there are some groups that have received targeted tax incentives. commuters who live in a wreck have received 7 000 – 8 000 kroner in additional taxes. Seafarers have got about the same thing. So the question is, what new groups are going to be hit when you're going to have additional tax breaks for those who have the most of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e382	First of all, the claim is wrong. If you look at the tax distribution tables based on the reliefs of about 24 billion. kr that this government has implemented, the main reliefs have been the income tax on persons. That means that about half of this government's tax relief has gone to persons with income below NOK 600 000. I understand that it is an unpleasant truth for the representative Geelsvik to deal with, but that is a fact. The car charges have been reduced by 1.9 billion. kr. It is true that the government, within a net tax reduction scheme of 24 billion. kr, has increased some environmental taxes, but the truth is that an average family has come out of this with tax reliefs of around NOK 10000. You have to be a magnificent representative to think it's small money. I think perhaps the representative, Mr Gülsvik, should rather be somewhat different from the tax proposals of his own party, the Senterpartiet, every year propose in his alternative budgets. There, we find no evidence of net tax reductions, but rather, on the contrary: tax incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e387	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e392	In our alternative budget, people with income up to NOK 700,000 will have lower taxes than with the government's agreed arrangement. With our budget option, there would be lower fees in Norway than it is with Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance. We have a different priority than the government has. What one has to assume is not how much tax credits are in total terms, but what is the effect on different groups. Low income groups have received minimal tax relief per person, while those with high incomes have received large tax relief per person. I ask again, how is progress to be further developed? Do you want to continue the development of tax increases for people most, as one has provided in each budget up to now, or is it going to go on a new line?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e398	I agree with the representative of Gülsvik in one thing, namely that the central party clearly prioritizes things differently from what this government is doing. But the priorities that this government has implemented have also worked well. We have turned negative consequences from the fall in oil prices in 2014, with increasing unemployment, to a situation of increased optimism, increasing employment, falling unemployment and increasing growth, and it is widely concentrated throughout the country, including in the districts, where the Central Party is usually concerned. That is the result of the economic policy that this government has led. We intend to continue a safe and supportive economic policy in the future, in order to secure jobs, in order to enable more and more families to live on their own income. That's what's important. Then it's not on this government's table to increase taxes, neither for Norwegian business nor for ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e403	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e408	For the Christian People's Party it has been absolutely crucial in all budgetary negotiations to raise the social profile. We know that what we can do in this room for those who need it the most is one of the most important things. It is creating growth, facilitating job security, facilitating the creation of new jobs, because we know that work is the best way out of poverty, and it makes sense for everyone who gets a job. At the same time, surveys show that every 10 children in Norway are growing up in a poor family, about 10 years old. 100,000 children, and that worries us. That is why we have been committed to targeted measures to help those young people who are in poverty. The best thing is to get them out of it, but also that they have a meaningful growth rate, to create safe families and safe children who later become safe adults. Now soon comes the revised budget. For the autumn, there is a government budget. What is the Minister of Finance's vision of budgetary work to ensure that a person is allowed to do something about the growing child poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e415	I very much agree with the representative Robstad that it is important to have a good social profile through the state budgets, and it is about ensuring safe, good welfare arrangements. If we're going to do that, we also have to make sure that the Norwegian economy is going well, because that's the prerequisite for giving politicians money for different purposes. The government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, have developed many measures through an action plan to tackle child poverty. I think we should keep focusing on that. Of course, it is a matter of individual action in a situation where children feel that it is demanding in social contexts — at school, in kindergarten, etc. – not to have the same assumptions as other children, but it is probably so much about making sure that the cause of poverty, namely the family economy, can do something about it. That's why this is all about integration and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e422	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e427	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. After several years of frozen relations with China in the wake of the Nobel Committee awarding the Liu Xiaobo Peace Prize, the political relations were normalised again in 2016. Of course, it's of great importance to Norway. China is a major force both economically and politically, an important market and an increasingly active player also internationally. At the same time, we find that the government, in time after the eviction against China, has given its approval to the human rights situation in China. At least that's what you can get. And so it happens at a time when President Xi Jinping is leading the country in a more authoritarian direction with more and more stringent control. The monitoring of the inhabitants is getting stronger, there is less democracy and less freedom. An example is that yesterday, the VG reported that China’s authorities have stopped all the online hall of Bibles, a clear attack on the freedom of faith, and one of several examples of the regime’s tightening up control of religious practice in the country. How does Norway react to the negative developments when it comes to freedom of trust and human rights in general in China, and does the government see it so that Norway has had room to address these critical questions? A question is also: is it not now time that Norway dares to use outright in these important value issues? Norway is a nation that has raised human rights. Do we now make it active in the dialogue we have with China?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e438	I thank you for a good and relevant question. After all, as the representative Hareide points out, after normalisation of the relationship, there has been both political visits and, I would say, increased interest from both sides in re-establishing good dialogue. When we had the first round of the new annual political consultation mechanism last August, human rights were a topic. It is now within this consultation mechanism that, of course, human rights can and should also be a topic in the future. It is also agreed that different societal models and, insofar as different social systems too are not in the way of an exchange which is also about this. It is important for the Norwegian authorities to underline this, and of course we follow closely the situation that exists, both in opposition matters and in freedom of religion, as the representative points out. Unfortunately, it is not a global situation that shows a positive trend. On the contrary, it is estimated that approx. 70 pst. by the population of the world living in countries where there are some degree of restrictions on freedom of belief and freedom of life. It is also one of the reasons why the government has clearly increased support for human rights work to promote religious freedom to approx. 70 million. kr this year, and also plays an active role in that field. It has also been important for us to build a good opportunity and a good platform just to take a discussion also about some of the difficult issues. We must be ambitious, but of course we must also be realistic. We also see that this is an approach that several other countries have in relation to China.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e449	I want to thank you for your answer. This is a problem Norway has with the Western world today. But I think it's very dangerous if we accept overstepping from China today and hope that increasing cooperation with the West will make China better tomorrow. I think that's a dangerous way to go. It will also make it harder to stand up to China later. In these days, Minister of State Iselin Nybø is visiting China to promote cooperation within his field, higher education and research. It seemed to me to be good and good, but Norway has also been criticized for being naive in its approach to the very agenda of Chinese authorities. Can the Foreign Minister assure me that Norway will stand out clearly for human rights in this cooperation – crystal clear on academic freedom and clearly against all attempts at control and censorship of research and higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e456	One of the reasons why higher education and research ministers, Iselin Nybø, are now travelling with a relatively large delegation — among others. Consisting of what I think are all university and university rectors and, moreover, a large academic delegation – is that she should be able to promote and exchange views on the key issues raised by the representative Hareide. We also see that China, for Norway and for many other countries, is an important global partner in many areas where we can contribute to positive developments, including: on environmental and climate issues. It's also important to bring with it in this context. Then I very much agree with what Hareide says about adapting the use of tools to what works. As the representative knows, sometimes the so-called exclusion does not give the best results. A combination of instruments, using both other channels and clearly out of tune, is most often shown to have good effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e463	There will be follow-up questions – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e468	When we look at the situation in China now, we experience, among other things. The situation of the uighurs as even more demanding than in a long time: people are interned without reason, there is no way to speak their language together at work, we know that organ transplants from prisoners of this people are taking place. The situation is more demanding. That's the one side. For example, Mercedes-Benz stayed. Recently pushed by China for an apology after they had been so unfortunate to quote the Dalai Lama on their websites, and when the Philippines stood up against China's territorial requirements in the South China Sea, they met that one would not buy bananas from the Philippines. I'll call this the bully trends on China's part. It is important that we stand up to that kind of restraint and policy on the part of China.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e474	With regard to issues related to both minorities and others that are at risk — really globally, not just in China — it is a topic that has been and will continue to be a priority from the Norwegian side in our human rights work. We are also committed to providing further support for those who defend human rights, i.e. human rights lawyers and activists, because we see that their room to exercise their activism and actions is under strong pressure in a lot of countries. That is also one of the reasons why I signed a long-term agreement at the end of February for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights – up to 150 million. kr this year, which is an increase, and clear support for four years in the future to be able to do a better job for minorities, as many places experience being under pressure, like human rights defenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e479	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e484	There is no doubt that human rights are under pressure in many countries, and not least what was referred to in the main issue today. We know that the uighuras are subject to extreme control. They are apprehended and imprisoned and controlled by digital means, facial recognition, etc., and they have a low level of minority protection. In the Annual Report of the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights, which was presented yesterday, there is a quotation from Secretary-General Bjørn Engesland of the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights and Human Rights in authoritarian states: ‘Norway must provide them with financial support and protection when persecuted, promote their rights in the United Nations and other international organisations and impose penalties on those who attack them.’;» Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs say a little more specifically how Norway is working to protect and support human rights fighters in authoritarian states?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e498	I was a little into it at the end of my previous answer. It's an unusually important job. In my opinion, we had a good development towards the end of last year, when, on Norwegian initiative, we unanimously adopted a resolution in the UN General Assembly on Human Rights Defenders. It is not obvious in today's UN situation that it should be possible, with unanimity, to adopt the kind of resolutions that have a clear normative character. That is exactly why it has been very important for us to follow up this work, inter alia. with the increased support to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, as I mentioned. We support very many civil society organisations and human rights organisations around in many countries that are particularly vulnerable. What we experience at regular intervals, on the other hand, is that many of those who are defenders and champions are also in a very vulnerable situation. We must then choose our means, so that the situation for them does not get worse than it already is. But both the political and financial support from Norway is unambiguous.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e503	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e508	Yesterday, the government put forward a proposition on the hiring of labour, which tightens up some fields, but also opens up for even more use of temporary employment. According to the Government, the agencies are now to be given an exclusive right of temporary employment to hire real vicariates. This scheme will certainly contribute to abuse. As long as supervision is not to supervise and punish infringements of these rules, the manning industry is, in reality, still free to break the rules for hiring out labour. So little indicates that the manning industry is getting a little less evil with the new proposals that the government has made. It is therefore of particular concern that the right at its national meeting this weekend decided that Nav should give names of jobseekers to the employment agencies. So now the Right is going in to formalise and systematize closer cooperation between Nav and the staffing agencies, and this comes after the trade union movement has warned that companies are getting rid of permanent employees and are replacing them with hiring agents. What has been adopted by the Right will in practice increase the use of recruitment agencies if implemented. So here's the right on collision courses with the bulk of the population, which in February asked for measures to tighten up the use of recruitment agencies. At the same time, the government repeats that fixed employment is the general rule in Norway. Who will the Council of State now listen to — the bulk of the population, who have given clear signals to limit the manning industry, or their own party, Right, who now obviously goes in to increase the use of agencies through Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e517	As I have said up to several times earlier in the Questionnaire, the recruitment agencies are today an important gateway for many of those who are without a job. They are important for many enterprises, not least public enterprises — which have the greatest degree of temporary employment — in order to meet their labour needs. That there should be good cooperation between Nav and the crew industry was adopted in connection with the Nav notification, which Stortinget dealt with in 2016. Then, as the representative of Moxnes is involved, and which is properly discussed earlier in the Questionnaire today, we have put forward a proposal proposing a number of changes to the Working Environment Act in order to strengthen the needs of employees for predictability and protection, while at the same time ensuring the legitimate needs of employers for rental. We believe, as I said earlier, that we have put forward a proposition that gives a good balance between the different considerations. This proposition is a direct follow-up to the consultation note issued by the government in June last year. We have had a good deal of contact with the parties after the hearing to both elaborate and clarify their hearing opinions, and we have also made some changes to our proposal, compared to what was sent out at the hearing. Of course, we have also taken note of the decisions taken by Stortinget in connection with the examination of Document 8 proposals a few weeks ago when it comes to investigating how to provide the Labour Inspectorate with further residences, among other things. to supervise matters of private law, which they do not currently have. We need more time to investigate this, but then we will also look at how the Labour Inspectorate can better enforce the provisions where it is illegal rental, as we have also received feedback that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e526	Then, I guess the answer is that the Council of State listens more to the Right than to the Great Splendor. Everyone agrees that you should of course be able to replace those who are actually away from work with temporary workers. But the problem we're talking about here is that the manning industry is increasingly replacing permanent employees and is threatening to rent into the norm in several industries, like in the construction industry. Anniken Hauglie himself said to the VG on 12 June last year: ‘It is a challenge that the extensive use of lease-in confers a competitive advantage.’ And she goes on to say, ‘Those who want to be serious and who want to work on a permanent basis, their own recruitment and development of competence may lose their way in competition.’ Can the Government guarantee that in the future the government will ensure that the unemployed will only be provided to actual vicariates, and will not replace permanent employees in serious enterprises, through the manning industry? And can the Council of State also guarantee that the manning industry will not increase as a result of the changes that are now being proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e543	I'm dealing with the Storting's decision, but there's no contradiction between decisions at the Right National Meeting and decisions taken in this Chamber. The size has also decided to have good cooperation with the recruitment agencies. Nor is it right for temporary employment agencies to replace or replace permanent employment. We see that the amount of both rent and temporary employment is limited, it's even stable, and it's actually also been a decline compared to the past. So it's relatively limited, and it's also been over time. This should also be the case in the future – fixed employment should, of course, be the general rule. Then we've seen that it's increased to a certain extent in some industries, and perhaps especially in the Oslo region – that was probably also the background for Red promoting a proposal to ban rentals in the Oslo region – but beyond that, it's relatively limited. What we have proposed in the proposal is to raise the level of agreement for whom to enter into a lease agreement in the construction industry, precisely because it is where the problems are greatest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e554	Bears' Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e559	The staffing agencies shall replace permanent staff. This is why the trade unions have also asked for a ban, which Redt then promoted – a ban that applied to the Oslofjord region and the construction sites, where we see that 40 pst. Of those who work there, that's 85 pst. of the rental is illegal, and that down to 10 pst. by those who work in the construction sites are organised, so that the trade union movement is swept away. This was what we wanted to do, but it was not meant to limit the restrictions on the manning industry, such as the Council of State, when it comes to justifying why it is only in the construction industry that renting must be agreed with trade unions with the right to set-up. If the Council of State really wants to clean up: Is she willing to consider a ban on recruitment agencies in the construction industry in the Oslofjord area – if the proposition does not solve the problems that are obviously large and large today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e567	The answer to the question is no. We will not promote a ban on recruitment agencies, either in the construction industry or in the Oslofjord area. We believe that a ban will be very unfortunate for the legitimate needs of businesses for renting. The consequences of a ban would be that yes, you have to hire more fixed ones. But you would also have to cancel more when the order books start to empty, and I can't quite see that it will create better predictability for the employees. It is necessary to be able to have the opportunity to rent in. It may also be worth recalling that the size of the rental and use of agencies is greatest in the public sector. It is in the health, social and education sectors that this problem is greatest. That was also the reason why the government tightened up when the Civil Service Act was amended to include the State's employees' law. The ability of the public sector to rent is limited to the same level as the employment environment law. So we're busy limiting rentals, and we've done it through several measures, also in the proposition we've now made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e574	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e579	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and is about Palestine. The brutal war in Syria has gone into its eighth year, and the civilian population has suffered more than enough. But the war in Syria has in a sense reduced international attention to the unresolved conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. Developments in the Middle East in recent years have probably also weakened the traditional argument that a solution to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict is a key to stability and positive development throughout the region. Nevertheless, the conflict has not been resolved. The unacceptable occupation and blockade persist. In May, the State of Israel is 70 years old. Norway was among the first countries to recognise Israel. We want cooperation with Israel and support the future of Israel as a liberal democracy. But the status of liberal democracy is deeply incompatible with the occupation of the Palestinian country. Last year we could mark that Israel's occupation of Palestine had been half a century. A peaceful solution to the conflict demands both parties. Israel must bear clear responsibility for the people they hold under occupation. Rocket attacks and terrorist attacks against Israel must cease. In the Passover, the conflict was eating up again on the Gaza Strip. Tens of thousands of Palestinians gathered in protest near the border fence. On Friday 16 Palestinians shall have been killed and over 1,400 wounded. What is Norway’s attitude toward Israel’s conduct toward the demonstrators, and how has this attitude been communicated to the Israeli authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e590	It is a deeply worrying situation, which unfortunately has become worse since then. There is every reason to believe that the situation in the coming weeks and months can show some of the same developments, unfortunately. From the Norwegian side, we have been clear that it is unacceptable to shoot sharply against civilians. We have been very clear that it must be a credible review of what has happened. It also follows from international humanitarian law that all countries have an obligation to carry out investigations when there is a possible violation of humanitarian law. But we have also been very clear that the solution to this conflict can only be found through a negotiated solution and a two-state solution. That's why, in the last six months, we've used a lot of resources through our presidency in the AHLC, the so-called donor country committee for Palestine, to try to find concrete projects that can help improve the situation of the Gazan population, while continuing to engage both sides constructively politically. What we experienced in the extraordinary meeting we convened on 31 January was that the atmosphere was – if you can say so – more constructive than what we could expect. We have spent a lot of time on the specific projects in Gaza in time after that and until the ordinary meeting we had on March 20th. A lot was mobilised during the meeting on 20 March. In particular, the issue of water treatment plants in Gaza, which, in addition to electricity supply, may be one of the most important for improving the living conditions of the population, was raised. That being said, it is important to repeat that the only way to solve this question is to get a negotiated two-state solution. It is a well-known and well-known Norwegian position, which has been there for all years, and which also underpins the policy we are pursuing towards both Israel and Palestine.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e603	One instrument is also consumer power. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are against the boycott of Israel, but we are positive about the labelling of products made in illegal settlements, in order to give consumers the opportunity not to buy these goods. Israel’s value creation in the occupied country is also not covered by the trade agreement Norway and EFTA have with Israel. On 23 July 2014, the Minister of Foreign Affairs then told Dagsrevyen that he would take the initiative to seek out a labelling scheme, and he promised to conclude quickly. It's almost four years ago. When can we expect a conclusion to be reached on the issue of the introduction of a Norwegian labelling scheme for goods produced in occupied countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e610	I am also pleased that the Workers' Party assumes that boycott is not a suitable tool. Dialogue is a significantly better tool than boikot. That being said, the question of the labelling of goods is a matter that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now dealing with. Interestingly, this question was also on former foreign minister Jonas Gahr Støre's table for a very long time without being concluded. One of the reasons is that it's not a simple question. But that's something we're working on in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs right now, and we hope to find a quick solution to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e615	Jette F. Christensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e620	This conflict produces only two things: refugees and hopelessness. UNRWA's help to Palestinian refugees has been invaluable through generations when it comes to education, health care, social services and food, and it seems stabilising in the areas of refugees. It is therefore critical that the United States has cut one third of all support received by the organisation, 65 million. dollar of its planned contribution. At a meeting on the economic situation of this organisation in Rome in March, State Secretary Halvorsen – as is true – stated that further action is needed to ensure that the organisation continues to carry out its mandate. I fully agree with that. He said it's going to be a discussion in the time to come. My question to the Council of State is whether these discussions have come a little further. Has anyone come? Norway’s core contribution fell by 25 million. kr in 2016. Will it increase now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e627	We have increased our support for UNRWA, and that is absolutely necessary because they contribute to the security and stability of the region and not just to the emergency aid with, for example, the emergency aid. food, education and medicine, which is a crucial part of it. We have a core contribution in 2018 of 125 million. kr. We paid it very early and at one time to be sure that it could help ensure that the services could continue to be provided. UNRWA is in an economic situation now that they fear that after May they will not be able to deliver the type of services they are currently doing. The second is that we have made a contribution to the humanitarian section, of 105 million. kr: It is also a contribution that we paid out immediately, and that I announced in connection with the conference in Rome. The contributions together provide substantial support to UNWRA to enable them to provide the services that are so essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e634	We move on to the next main question – from Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e639	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Security policy image is changing. The world is much more troubled now than a few years ago. This, of course, is also taken up by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. On 7 April this year, the Council of State gave an extensive interview to Dagbladet on the security policy image and the Norwegian defence. On NATO's 2-percentile, the Foreign Minister is quoted as follows: ‘Yes, we are firmly committed to working towards the goal. We have made a clear commitment to this.’ That the Right has confirmed NATO's 2 percent, I'm not in doubt about. On Right's own homepages the party announced after the national meeting last year's following crystal clear message: ‘Right will spend two per cent of GDP on Defence by 2024, which will mean further stepping up defence, security and preparedness.’ And this went right to election on in 2017. Both the State Council's interview to the Daily Saturday and not least the Right's promises on its own homepages are in stark contrast to what the Council of State wrote in a letter to the Stortinget six and a half months after the Right's national meeting last year. There the Council of State wrote that ‘To achieve a situation where Norway actually uses 2 per cent of GDP for defence purposes will require significant framework increases in the coming years, also beyond the levels foreseen in this long-term plan’. I am asking this question about the 2-percentage, although I know that the former Minister of Defence has changed his mind and is now Minister of Foreign Affairs. But with the background of the newspaper’s essay, I find it right to refer to the interview where the Council of State also says that ‘in the right we also say that it is important to use the money correctly’. There's no doubt about it, but it's hard to ensure good financial management if one says two completely opposite things about financing the defense. Can the Council confirm that the promise of own country meeting last year is still valid?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e664	As the representative himself is concerned, the question may be outside the Constitutional Area of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but I leave to Minister of Foreign Affairs Eriksen Soreide to decide whether she will answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e669	This is a question that needs to be addressed to the Minister of Defence. It is the Minister of Defence who is responsible for drawing up the annual defence budgets. But let me just make a brief reference to what the government has done in this period, is increase the defence budgets by 24 pst., actually, 10.6 billion. kr. It's a significant rise. We have also chosen to use the resources where it was most needed first, namely to repair materials that had been laying at berth or standing in garages for years without being able to use. We've been busy increasing the activity, and we've been busy starting new big investments. All of this is in the adopted long-term plan, and it has also been followed up with the economy required by the long-term plan. At the same time, we have been clear that the goal that NATO formulated in Wales in 2014 is to move towards using 2 pst. of GDP in defence within a decade, remains constant. It has been confirmed in the budget proposal that was presented, it has been confirmed at our national meeting and probably also at other national meetings, and that is an objective we stand by. So I also think Liv Signe Navarsete, as the former Council of State for many years, well knows that to formulate GDP assessments six to seven years in advance, there is no bad thing to do. So how exactly will this turn out, there's no one who can say per day, except knowing that it's clear it's a demanding job to continue the huge increase we've had in the defence budgets, when the economic space is getting smaller in the future. It doesn't mean, however, that the goal doesn't stand firm, but it means that we have to continue to do tough government priorities, just the same way we've done up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e680	I thank you for your answer. There is no doubt that the Council of State both before and after she was Minister of Foreign Affairs has expressed its opinion on this 2-percentile, and I therefore asked the question. This is linked to security policy. If we look back last year, Kjell Grandhagen said in a chronicle in today's business that we are at risk of both misinvestments and the closure of bases under new framework conditions would choose to keep, if one does not have a holistic defence escalation plan. What he pointed out was the closure of Andeya Air Station, which can dramatically reduce our capacity to accept allied reinforcements. Defence policy is then linked to security policy and foreign policy. It cannot necessarily be separated. Will the Foreign Minister say that reducing the capacity to accept allied reinforcements, which are Norway's buoyancy, actually also imply foreign policy and security policy for our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e689	I record that the representative Navarsete continues to ask questions that are primarily within the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Defence. I think the announcement of an overall escalation plan is funny. It is called the long-term defence plan, and it has been presented and adopted by the Grand Duchy by a large majority. It also assumes that it will be easier to receive allied reinforcements. That is what is the whole basis for the allied dimension on which we attach extra emphasis, precisely because the need for allied reinforcements in potential conflicts that would affect Norway will be great in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e696	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e701	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. It is the government’s responsibility as much as possible and as early as possible to inform and involve the Storting about the processes in the EU that are relevant to us. If they are too late, it also weakens the possibilities Norway has for influencing these processes. To give some examples, in the case of the purchase of commercial public broadcasting services, it was claimed by representatives of the government parties that ESA could stop it. But the Stortinget stood on its feet and demanded that the government notify the case, and then it turned out that it was the Stortinget that was right, and that the EEA did not prevent this solution. In the ACER debate, the Labour Party was again forced to impose guarantees in place that ensure important Norwegian concerns. And recently, the European Commission has put forward proposals for a European labour market agency. There is something that can be an important and positive tool against social dumping across borders. However, in the Labour Party, we are at the same time concerned that the proposal should not imply a waiver of sovereignty, transfer of authority, or that measures against social dumping and labour crime should be hindered in Norway. So my question is simply whether the Council of State can guarantee that the government in this matter will have a more active role towards the EU and that it will inform the Stortinget of the work to ensure that Norwegian interests are taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e712	For my part, within my area of competence, I have had an active dialogue and active contact with the EU on several of the issues relevant to Norwegian working life. I will attend the informal EU Council of Ministers for the week, too, and I have agreed to several meetings there, including: to discuss issues that are important and relevant to us. The European Labour Authority is relatively premature, if you can say so. The initiative was taken by the EU last year. You haven't finished that work yet. Norway has given an opinion on the case along the lines of the representative Hadia Tajik. We are committed to maintaining Norwegian sovereignty on these issues. For the time being, it is relatively non-obligatory. The signal coming is that the Agency should facilitate better information flows on rights and obligations between countries, promote and support cooperation between EU countries related to enforcement, and facilitate a solution that creates disagreements between Member States. I am, of course, concerned with informing the Storting in a good way as the work progresses, both in this area and in other areas as well. I have previously participated in the EEA Committee and presented processes on important issues relevant to Norway in the field of working life, and I will of course do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e723	I appreciate this feedback. However, in the light of the experience we have seen in other areas, I would like a guarantee from the Council of State that she will regularly inform and involve Stortinget. I also want the Council of State to tell how it will ensure that it does so, because I would like to know if it has a plan for this important new initiative coming, linked to a European labour market agency. For this is something that has meaning for how we can fight against social dumping across borders. It may also have an impact on the scope of action we have in Norway and on the initiatives we take from Norway, and in order for us in Stortinget to be able to take the necessary initiatives in time, it also depends on the guarantee provided by the Council of State and the plan of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e728	In the context of the EU initiative to set up such an agency, Prime Minister Solberg took an initiative towards the EU such as: is about how to combat cross-border crime at work. Our starting point was that this initiative could be part of the EU's work, which in many ways is about the same. We wanted to make representations about how to fill the Agency with meaningful tasks that were concrete and operational. This is one of the issues I will discuss with Commissioner Thyssen this week in connection with the informal EU Council of Ministers, which is organised in Sofia. So state councils participate at regular intervals here in Stortinget, where we are briefing on issues that are on the way, which are on the stairs, and then, in advance of the possible implementation of the directives in Norwegian law and are formally dealt with by Stortinget. So I can guarantee that I will be attending by involving the Storting at an early stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e735	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e747	There will be a number of changes in the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this context. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 3 and 4 from Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen and Kari Henriksen, respectively, to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health on behalf of the Minister for Health, who has left. Question 5, from the representative of Mr Huitfeldt to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 7, from the representative of Mr Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed. Question 10, from the representative Anette Trettebergstuen to the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health, has been transferred to the Minister for Culture who is directing him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister for Older People and Public Health on behalf of the Minister for Culture, who has left. The question will be raised by the representative of Trond Giske. Question 12, from the representative Tuva Moflag to the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health, has been transferred to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who is directly responsible. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Older People and Public Health on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has been away. Question 15, from the representative Per Espen Stoknes to the Minister for Climate and Environment, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 16, from the representative Emilie Enger Mehl to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has left. Question 17, from the representative of Solfrid Lerbreck to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, will be raised by the representative of Eirik Faret Sakarissen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e775	‘Why do older drivers in Norway have to present health certificates in order to keep the licence after 75 years of age, while drivers in Sweden and Denmark do not have to do so, and why will the Council not take the initiative to amend this legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e780	I'm glad that people want mobility for everyone in society. Being able to drive a car gives freedom to both young and old. Especially for people who are not in the working life of their daily lives, it's just driving a car to get to social functions, etc. an important part of having a good quality of life. So we want to make it easier for people to use our roads, to have safe and good roads and safe and good vehicles. But having a driving licence is a prerequisite for being able to do that. In order to ensure road safety, it is important to ensure that everyone is adequately qualified and that there is a health situation in which the qualifications acquired remain. For many, this is completely unproblematic. But we know that for some people getting old also means getting disabled. You get less aware of what's happening around you, it takes a little longer to make decisions. This creates the possibility of creating dangerous situations as drivers. As in many other European countries, we regularly examine the health of driving licences holders over 75 years in Norway. It is about being sure that when you have the right to a driving licence, you are still suitable to drive a car. So I just remind you that the age limit for a health certificate is not something that has been introduced recently. In fact, it was 70 years old, but was increased to 75 years in 2013, because it was thought that health generally improved, and that it could therefore have less lead to var-approaching for the age group between 70 and 75. So if you ask about the arguments why it's an age limit, I think that anyone who's been in the government system in the past can join in and answer. I think we should make it easier, both for those who have a driving licence and for the authorities, to be able to maintain the driving licence, but at the same time we must ensure road safety. I have stated in the past that we will consider developing today's rules in the light of today's knowledge and experience from other countries. I have noticed articles that have been written about some of our neighboring countries, which make different assessments than we do when it comes to where the border is going. I have previously communicated to Stortinget through written answers to written questions that we are following developments, and I am in dialogue with the Minister of Health with a view to obtaining a joint assessment from both road and health authorities on the basis of which it is necessary to simplify the rules on health certificates for older drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e791	I interpret the Council of State as considering further developing the rules of the day – I think that was the concept he used. It is also a term he has used in an answer to a written question from the representative Ivar Odnes. My question was really about why we're going to have the regime that we have, which many people think is very heavy. I must say that I believe both the undersigned and many here in the Chamber have realized that this is something that EU/EEA legislation has forced us to have. But after working more on this – we've got the Swedish Research Department of Storting to look at this and others working on the question – it turns out that Denmark has recently removed such a system. Sweden and Germany have never had it. Of course, older drivers who are not capable of driving a car are not required to have a driving licence, but it is this group idea that everyone over 75 years of age has to go through this system, which is the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e796	Now I felt that there was a little bit of double communication. On the one hand, you ask why you should have it at all, while saying that it is important to be able to keep those who are not fit to drive because of age, away from the roads. Then there has to be some kind of system at the bottom. There I am very open to discussing with health authorities and road authorities, but also with the Storting, of course, whether there are better solutions to it than what we have today. I fully agree that making the least bureaucratic possible is an objective. That is why this government has both removed many rules and simplified many rules. In this area too, there can certainly be a basis for this. Increasing the age limit from 70 to 75 in 2013 is a sign of change. So once again, if you ask why the system exists at all, then I think you can also talk to those who ran until 2013, about why you had stricter rules than what is today. But I'm busy learning from our neighboring country. There are different approaches here. We have to figure out what works best, and then we want to put it into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e801	Just to clarify: Of course, those who are unfit to drive a car should not have a driving licence. But that's whether you're 60, 40 or 80. That's the way it is today. If, for medical reasons, a driver is unable to hold a driving licence, the doctor will take the driving licence from him. That's the way it should be, and that's the way it has to be. That's the way it should be for those who are less than 75, and that's the way it has to be for those who are over 75. That's the whole point. However, it is the violent system that needs to be rigged to ensure that all 75-year-olds every year or every two years — how often it is — vary slightly from person to person — have a very comprehensive health check at the hospital. It goes with many years of permanent work and is too many a heavy system. So the question is, why do we have to have specific rules for them over 75, when the State Road Service says that there are no more accidents among them over 75 than among them under 75?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e812	The argument that health authorities use is that cognitive impairment is faster when you start to approach or over that age. The limit was moved from 70 to 75 years because it was seen that the general health of 72-year-olds is better today than a few years ago. That's why there's a basis for all the way around to discuss what's a reasonable limit. So I could say that we're removing any age approach here. The question is what kind of system the Workers' Party would implement instead, when we agree that those who no longer have the skills to drive a car should be removed from the road. Is it like this that everyone goes into some control? This is the question of finding a risk approach to minimise the disadvantage to the general population by using those groups that pose a greater risk to health. Now, if we can get a new round and say that there's little basis for them over 75 years being more risky than others, it's just to remove these rules. But we're going to have to have a thorough round before we do that, just because we're going to take care of road safety as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e822	‘On Værøj in Nordland it is known as the helicopter and ferry that are the alternatives to getting to Bodø. Too many are the cost of taking a helicopter big, especially if one is multiple. In the summer there are fewer direct departures by ferry, which weakens the offer of the fishing industry and the residents of Værøy. Will the Council of State do something to make day trips to Bodø possible throughout the year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e829	It is important to have a good transport network across the country. In some places this works entirely on its own keel through commercial offers. In other places, the country must collect and pay large subsidies in order to maintain an offer. Værøy is operated as part of the national road ferries link Bodø-Røst-Værøy-Moskenes. I myself have been with and taken that boat to get an experience of the route. The connection is the longest in the country. The Bodø–Moskenes line is the main route in the connection with over 70 pst. of traffic. Værøy is in the middle of the connection and has a connection both to Bodø and to Lofoten via Moskenes. The sailing time here is between three and four hours, depending on the vessel engaged on the voyage. Due to the length, the ferry connection was placed in a standard class with continuous operation requirements for the design of the ferry operation standard of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. This implies that the number of departures is not defined, but that the ferries serving the connection must be in service as much as possible within the ferry connection opening time. It was this standard that was the basis of the call for tender for the current contract. The interconnector received a significant capacity and offer improvement at the start of the current contract in 2013. This is a tender made before the accession of the current government. The connection has three-four tours per day, but not all tours go into Værøy. Most of the departures from and to Værøy are sailed via Røst or Moskenes. The holiday offer on the route included in the connection is adapted to the many different transport needs to be met by the ferry service for business and residents both in Lofoten and on Værøy and Røst. It is therefore about getting the best possible offer for as much as possible within the framework set by the previous government. There has been a significant increase in the traffic of the ferry link Bodø-Moskenes in recent years, particularly in summer time on the Bodø-Moskenes route. Traffic cooking for the month of July has been on this route for the period 2013-2017 at approx. 50 pst. As a result, additional ferry capacity has been introduced in July 2017. After dialogue with the municipalities of Røst and Værøy, it is then arranged for the return-sail from Værøy to Lofoten on Tuesdays and Thursdays. The establishment of the day-to-day offer of ferries from Røst and Værøy to both the Moscows and Bodøs will result in the need to phase in further capacity in the ferry link. There will be a need for resources and additional capacity, which in that case will have to mean less capacity elsewhere. The ferry service on the route shall cover a much greater need for transport and freight to and from Lofoten, Værøy and Røst, and not just passenger trips on one of the routes. It's a bit of the priority job that needs to be done if you're going to make changes. The possibilities for day travelers from Bodø residing on Værøy must be seen in the context of the public purchase of the helicopter service on the route Værøy-Bodø. The contract with the operator requires two daily helicopter tours on weekdays and two weekend trips. In the future contract, it is required that the first landing in Bodø be before noon. 10 and the last after 10 o'clock. 16th@item: inlistbox We subsidize this helicopter route by about NOK 10000 per round trip per passenger. So a lot of money is spent on good passenger transport to the area, and I would recommend that a local person make proposals for changes to the priorities if you think this is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e842	Large values are created along the coast of this country, and Northland has a quarter of the coastline. Here are many productive communities and islands far out in the sea. Værøy is one of these communities. The number of departures Bodø–Mosques is important – I will agree with the Council of State on that. But the value creation at Værøy is 1.2 million. kr per head, and that kind of society we have to take care of. Bodø is the mainland link to Værøy. A summer route takes five and a half hours, i.e. 11 hours back and forth, and then you have to stay overnight. The same applies to the young people who have to go to Bodø to go to school after 10th grade. When they go home on weekends, it takes eleven hours to go back and forth. It's a long time, so it's hard for them to come home. It's also expensive to take the helicopter. What will the Council of State do to make it easier for young people at Værøy to get home on weekends?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e851	We have maintained a holiday offer that was obviously good enough for the previous government, and which we have further strengthened with an additional departure. This is a sign that we see the need. At the same time, it is possible for the fishing industry to deal with the routes that go and then plan its transport. Once we've talked to the business community and the fishing industry, it's not this route they've taken up that there's a need to make further improvements on. That's the way forward they've said we should prioritize the money. Making sure that good passenger transport to and from Værøy and Røst is possible is important to us. That's also why we have a helicopter offer where we actually subsidize each tour by over NOK 10 000. It's a sign that society thinks it's going to be possible to get to and from this place quickly, even though the Center Party is trying to give the impression of something else. At the same time, we need to have a discussion about how we offer the best possible offer for the money that the public has available. I have not received any local enquiries that it is this that is the most important thing to make changes in – these are other things that they have prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e856	The rental on Værøy is located so that part of the year is difficult to operate, especially with northerly wind directions. Weather Island is the country's largest lute fish producer, and production takes place in the autumn, just when the north wind is prominent. The neighbouring municipality of Røst is also large in fisheries and has problems with ferry rental. They need repairs there. What can the Council of State do to improve the infrastructure, so that freight from the Værø ferry rental will have better and safer access to the mainland?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e863	The Nordic region is one of the countries with the highest undeclared bets in the national transport plan 2018–2029. This means that there are a number of road sections to be repaired, both through maintenance and through building new ones. It has not been said in the feedback provided by the county that this is being addressed now has been one of the main challenges in driving industrial development. It is important that we have a good ferry offer, it is important that we have a good flight offer for the island, and we take care of that through what is. I record that there are now two follow-up questions, one about young people on the summer school holidays and the other about production on the island in the autumn. While the starting point for the question was that in the summer there are fewer direct departures by ferry, it is claimed that this is about young people's ability to go to school. Young people don't go to school in the summer, they have a summer vacation. Harvest production of fish is ensured by having more take-offs than in summer. The two problems that were addressed are solved with the holiday offer that you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e873	This question, from the representative Siri Gassemyr Staalesen to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health on behalf of the Minister for Health, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e878	«Health professionals are one of the most important occupational groups in the health and care sector. However, new health professionals still face a working life that is unable to offer them permanent employment and at least 100 per cent of all jobs. Solid jobs offer freedom and security, but earlier this year only 28 per cent of the health professions that were advertised at Finn.no last year were full-time jobs. What new initiatives will the Council of State take in order to ensure that health professionals are permanently employed throughout their careers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e885	I agree with the representative that the large amount of part-time jobs among health professionals is a problem. Research shows that a large scale of small jobs in this sector weakens the quality of service and, above all, results in inefficient services. Small jobs are also unworthy of workers who are dependent on predictability and a full job situation in order to obtain adequate pay and pensions. In the Jelaua Declaration, the government has determined that we will work to establish a full-time culture in working life, and I believe that there is a good dialogue between the authorities and the social partners on the full-time and part-time health and care issues. The shift/turnus sample concluded that one of the main reasons for the high part-time share of the turnus worker is that there is a high need for labour on weekends, when the rotational plans usually add up to work every three weekends or less frequently. Furthermore, the sample expressed that increased weekend frequency in the turns is central to reducing time use. In this work we need, among other things. alternative rotational arrangements agreed between the social partners, based on volunteering and based on the needs of the sector. These included: therefore, the government amended the Labour Environment Act in 2015 and opened up the possibility for the parties locally to agree guards up to 12,5 hours. This way you can, for example: plan long shifts on weekends and thus meet the need for Sunday work without having to work several weekends. I know that there is a lot of good work in the municipalities to reduce the proportion of part-time work. However, this does not seem to be enough. The Working Time Committee pointed out that problems related to the health and care sector have been known and discussed for many years, but that the parties have not been able to find a solution. The committee's investigation has been under general consultation and followed up by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The full-time and part-time health and care issues are complex, and I am interested in having a dialogue with the social partners to take a closer look at this. I also show that the government has recently made a proposal for changes to the Working Environment Act which says that part-time employees may have the right to take precedence over part of a advertised position, and that the decisions of the Dispute Resolution Board should be enforceable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e900	When only 28 pst. of the advertised jobs are full-time jobs, we really cannot be satisfied, and I am glad that the Council of State is not. But I heard few new measures that can really monge, in the response of the Council of State. What the government has done, on the other hand, is cut into actions that actually work. The involuntary part-time programme was launched during Stoltenberg II. The program granted 75 million. kr over a three-year period for measures to reduce the amount of involuntary part-time. The average employment rate increased by 20 to 25 percentage points in the measures implemented. There was a larger increase than in comparable branch figures. The evaluation showed that there was an action that worked. If the government really wants to reduce involuntary part-time: why cut into actions that work, instead of continuing them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e907	I would like to remind you that pay and working conditions are a matter for the social partners and are within the sectoral responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I believe that there is a good dialogue between the authorities and the social partners as of now, so my starting point is to facilitate the best possible care services. The extent of part-time time here has a meaning for quality. I have already had several meetings with different organisations to discuss the full-time and part-time issues. I was last in Tromsø and visited the nursing home located on the South Tromsø Island, and looked at how they had succeeded in increasing the full-time share of their nursing home. They had introduced alternative working time arrangements, and they were very satisfied with it. As one of the leaders there said, after the introduction of a special agreement, there are always some professionals at work, which is very important in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e914	We had a majority in the Health and Care Committee in the autumn that believed that the government has not done enough in the fight against involuntary part-time work, including the current Left Government Party. So along with the meetings the Council of State refers to, maybe we can hope for a new give in this work. In 2016, the SSB made calculations that said we needed 57,000 new health professionals by 2035. Several thousands of young people will now, in the months ahead, decide how to specialise and what secondary education they will take. Can the Council of State promise them a improvement – that there will be more permanent jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e921	What I think, is that one of the most important things is to talk up the profession. If you are a health professional, if you are a job as an ordinary nurse – everyone working in the care sector, it is important to talk. Then there are many factors that play a role. Again, I would like to say that the government of the Jeløya platform has emphasised extra that we want to establish a full-time culture in the workplace is very important. I am concerned about this in order to be able to handle the tasks I am responsible for, and I would definitely encourage municipalities and others working in the sector to be flexible and look at alternative solutions based on volunteering. Then I'm sure we'll also get into port when it comes to part of the challenges we're facing. We also need to be aware that there are many employees out there who do not want to work full time, who may have a different situation in the home and want to work only 70-80 pst. Then we're going to be open that there's also an opportunity. It must be based on volunteering if we are to initiate new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e931	Question 4, from Kari Henriksen to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health on behalf of the Minister for Health, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e936	‘Many are subjected to violence that remains hidden. The Government’s action plan was criticised by many teams — among other things, it was non-committal and did not contain measures to prevent, avert and detect violence and abuse against vulnerable people such as the elderly and mentally retarded. In retrospect, the Norwegian Centre for the Knowledge of Violence and Traumatic Stress has published a report showing that violence against the elderly is a major problem and that they are seeking help to a small extent themselves. What has the Council of State done to ensure that more older people are actually seeking help?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e941	Violence against the elderly is a significant health problem, and the report of the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress shows that the challenges are greater than we have so far. I can assure you that we will use the knowledge from this report in our efforts to prevent better, detect more and reach more. Important changes to the Health Act came into force on 1 January of this year. These changes make it clear that healthcare is obliged to prevent, detect and avert violence and abuse. The main responsibility lies with the municipalities, the specialist health service and the public dental service. I believe that the various healthcare services themselves need to find good local solutions, so that healthcare professionals are able to prevent, detect and avert violence and abuse. Through the escalation plan against violence and abuse, the government will contribute to the good competence of all sectors in violence and abuse and to the prioritisation and strengthening of prevention. Regional resource centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention are among our main means of disseminating knowledge and expertise in services, and the government has strengthened these centres through increased appropriations. During the spring, the government is presenting the ‘Life for Life for Life’, a quality reform for the elderly. Health care for the elderly is one of the main elements of the reform, and prevention work is a central theme in this context. Among other things, preventative home visits, which are currently carried out in many municipalities, can help to identify risk factors, including risk factors. related to the demanding nature of the psychosocial situation of the elderly. Here, too, ergot therapists play an important role. These posts will be required by law in municipalities from 2020 onwards. People who have been subjected to serious physical violence or abuse in the past are significantly more prone to violence even in older years. Prevention and early detection will thus help to reduce the incidence of violence and abuse in this group as well. The report of the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress is an important basis of knowledge in developing the services, especially since so few of those exposed to violence have been in contact with the auxiliaries or have reported the situation. I share the concern of the representative Henriksen, I think the representative knows very well, and we will consider how we can use the various tools to reach out to several older people to seek help, and that they will do so as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e956	I know the government's commitment to violence, and that's good. What I am calling for is practical political action, and there is no trace in the 2018 budget of putting a concrete effort on these vulnerable groups. The bet that's on her property is $7 million. kr. It's for children's homes and medical examinations, and it's very good. However, within the responsibility of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Older People, there are major challenges, and there is nothing new. The help phone «Vern for the elderly» was established in 2009, and it has worked well, as far as I know. I am interested in hearing: What new initiatives does the Council of State plan to take, and how will it strengthen staff knowledge of the concrete legislative changes made to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e963	We need to talk more openly about violence and abuse. The theme is still taboo, which makes it difficult to seek help and reach those who are struggling, those who experience this on the body and on the psyche. It is difficult for relatives and health professionals to ask the right questions, and we see that the warning role is also important in this picture. We cannot solve this in just one sector. This is width, this comes in several sectors, which have to work well together. But we all have to dry out talking about violence and abuse as a public health problem, we have to deal with this with measures in all sectors, and the plan of escalation against violence and abuse is, of course, a cross-sectoral plan. I'm going to be very busy with this segment as we now present the "Life All Life" reform of how we're going to get out. The representative was himself concerned with knowledge building. Of course, we should continue to increase the competence for violence and abuse in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e970	Thank you for that. I can record that during the five years that have passed since this government took over, there has been a lot of talk. It was also the answer in the previous question that applied to full-time positions, that we have to talk more about it, and then have a kind of magical notion that then change will happen. All experience and competence shows that this is not the case. One needs concrete tools, politically adopted, to make such structures change. Several non-governmental organisations have been very concerned, of course, with their groups related to violence and assault – the Norwegian Association for the Development of the Disabled, the Blind Alliance and the Joint Organisation of the Disabled, to name a few. Many of these groups are in very vulnerable situations, and they depend on the actions of others and on the help of others. When we're going to be on the platform, can I just continue to challenge the Council of State to talk a little bit about what initiatives she will take towards the voluntary organisations to which the government has cut the appropriations, to put this on the agenda and to discuss solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e979	The representative used the help phone ‘Vern for the elderly’ instead, and ‘Vern for the elderly’ has been very important in helping more victims of violence and abuse. The fact that organisations and volunteers are part of the sector is also an important piece, not only in ‘lifelong life’, the reform that comes, but also in other areas. I also believe that relatives around have a significant responsibility – to reveal, to ask questions, to try to look at what is happening out there. The representative was involved in mental retardation, which in many ways is to be seen as a child, and which in many areas belongs to the category of children. It's an important angle to look at violence and assaults against mentally retarded people in line with violence and child abuse. Making concrete actions together is being done in municipalities today, but there are differences between municipalities; some have good measures; others do not have the same good. We have to learn from each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e995	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1003	‘Norway’s relationship with the United Kingdom in the fisheries sector is of great importance, both in terms of resource management, quotas and market access. For Norway and Norwegian fishermen, brexit may pose challenges, but also new opportunities that need to be addressed. What are the concrete objectives of the Government for the protection of Norwegian fishing interests in the light of Brexit, what contacts does the Government have with the British and the EU, and has any progress been made in securing Norwegian interests in this important area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1010	Let me first say that the representative Gülsvik asks an important question, and I am very pleased that the representative in his question also points out that there are not only challenges, but that there are opportunities that need to be seized. So I would say that the main message so far from the government is that there has to be a new, common trilateral legal and international framework for the administration of the North Sea, and that it is very important to find solutions for the various populations, especially in the pelagic area, for mackerel, Norwegian herring and hake. As far as fisheries management is concerned, Brexit will have implications for the way we work together to manage these common stocks. Outside the EU, the United Kingdom becomes a significant coastal state. Norway has managed the North Sea populations together with the EU for over 40 years, but after Brexit we need a new cooperation platform that includes the United Kingdom as a coastal state. Together, Norway and the United Kingdom will become a major factor in this area, with the EU becoming a residual EU. The representative also asks what goals the government has set itself. Our main objective for fisheries management will continue to be to ensure fair distribution to Norway, sustainable management and good control of the activity being carried out. All of these three are very important. To achieve this, we want to establish a new, common legal framework for the management of the North Sea between Norway, the EU and the United Kingdom when we now go from two to three parties. The aim, of course, is to agree on the allocation of the common stocks and arrangements for access to fishing within each other's zone. There is a good and continuous dialogue with both London and Brussels at political level and at the level of office. Process so far has been good. Dialogue with the EU and the United Kingdom in fisheries management is open. Of course, we will continue to prioritise this work in the future. I had a meeting with the British Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food recently before Easter. I also had meetings in Scotland earlier this year. There were good and fruitful meetings, and we believe that we have a common understanding of the issues that need to be resolved. In the case of access to the sea food market, the EU situation will remain unchanged after Brexit. With regard to our bilateral trade with the United Kingdom, the Norwegian starting point for the future negotiations is a bilateral free trade agreement and that there should be duty-free market access for all industrial products, including seafood.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1023	Finally, with regard to market access: the United Kingdom is a large market for Norwegian fish exports. We sold fish last year to a value of over 5 billion. UK. And with regard to the future contractual relationships that could arise: one option that was discussed in both Norway and the United Kingdom is British EFTA membership, where they were a member before entering the EU. In EFTA, full free trade for fish is available, so that if the British enter EFTA, there is a solved issue related to market access for fish. EFTA membership is being taken up and discussed from a growing number of new teams, including: it was raised as an alternative by the Brexit Committee in the House of Commons not later than just before Easter. That is why I would like to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State think it would be positive for Norwegian fishing interests with British EFTA membership?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1030	At least the representative is quite right in saying that the United Kingdom is a significant market for Norwegian seafood. The representative himself points to these 5.2 billion. kr. We're talking about almost 150,000 tons of seafood, and it's over 9 pst. of our total trade with the EU. So the fact that the United Kingdom is a significant and important market for us, there is no doubt about it. It's not just fish & chips either, because of those over 9 pst. is the salmon in value 70 pst. of this. But when it comes to the United Kingdom's possible situation after Brexit, that is, 29 March 2019, I don't think I'm going to stand here and recommend the United Kingdom to go either in one direction or in the other. The essential thing for me, as Minister of Fisheries, is to take care of the Norwegian seafood industry and the interests of Norwegian fishermen. But as I have also pointed out earlier: the best thing for Norway and the United Kingdom in the post-brexit situation is that we get a transitional arrangement, so that we don't get any vacuum until we possibly have agreements in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1037	I did not ask the Council of State to say what the British are going to do, of course they are going to decide for themselves, but I specifically asked what he thinks will take care of Norwegian fishing interests, whether a British EFTA membership, which will then mean full free trade in fish, will be positive for Norwegian fishing interests. In the case of fisheries management, which was also the subject of the Council of State, the British are leaving the EU Common Fisheries Policy, and in many areas the EU will leave the North Sea. From 2020, the UK will negotiate on its own behalf and, in the view of the Centre Party, it will also be able to facilitate, for example, quota swaps, because there is one party, the United Kingdom, with which one will negotiate, and not spanjoles and Portuguese through the EU. An important difference between the Norwegian regime and the EU regime is that one in Norway has a draft ban, while one does not have it in the EU. Will the Council of State take initiatives against the British to ensure that, when they are given their own fisheries management, there will be a draft ban in the areas of the North Sea that we jointly manage?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1046	First of all, I would like to say that I think I said in my first answer that the starting point for the government – and I think that is also the best starting point – is that if Norway could reach a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom where there is duty-free market access for all industrial products, including seafood, it would be best for Norway. I do not share the view that we have had bad relations with the EU. Our relations with the EU in terms of regulation and negotiations have been excellent in recent years. Although there are some of the countries involved in tripartite cooperation that have been a bit problematic, we have been very successful in caring for Norwegian interests in these negotiations. But it's clear that a draft ban I think will come, regardless of whether we get a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom, or the United Kingdom chooses a different direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1056	The next question, from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1061	‘The NRK has shown video in which Norwegian soldiers participate in active warfare in Iraq. The Chief of Defence said on Tuesday 3 April that Norwegian soldiers have intervened several times in the conflict situation and that the mandate for this is in the word ‘advisory’. Former Minister of Defence Eriksen Soreide said in a press release on 3 March 2017 that Norwegian soldiers should not participate directly in combat actions. How does the Council of States refer to the word "advisory" and how does it communicate with the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1068	Mandate, kgl. the resolution of 20 March 2017, to the Norwegian strength contribution in the Anbar region of Iraq, is, as the representative also points out, to train and advise Iraqi forces in the fight against ISIL. It is provided in the mandate that advice will take place during both the planning and the conduct of military operations. In order to provide advice during the conduct of operations, Norwegian forces must also be present and follow the Iraqi forces in the field. The Iraqi forces in Anbar have liberated large IS occupied areas during both defensive and offensive operations. In several of these operations, Norwegian forces and coalition forces from other close allies have followed the Iraqi forces as their advisers. Only in cases where the Norwegian force or the partner force is directly or indirectly affected by the imminent threat from ISIL has the Norwegian force used power. Power has only been used for self-defence and strength-protection actions. It is a pre-requisite for the government that Norwegian soldiers on a mission of considerable risk shall have the full right to defend themselves and protect themselves from attacks. The video to which the representative refers and to which the Defense has published shows an attempt at a car bombing by ISIL. This is an armored ISIL vehicle, loaded with what is estimated to be several hundred kilos of explosives, approaching the force at great speed. If the attack vehicle in question had not been stopped, that second would have been so close that the suicide bomber could have killed an incredible number of soldiers from the coalition, including Norwegian soldiers. The Norwegian soldiers are likely to save more lives through their actions this day. It is difficult to be critical of this type of strength protection action. The mandate to which I referred has been consulted with the Stortinget in DUUFK, and the Stortinget has later been kept continuously informed about the development of the Norwegian contribution to the coalition against ISIL.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1079	I thank you for the answer and regret that I have a bad voice. I will boast of Norwegian soldiers. My question is not a criticism of the Norwegian defence, but a question about Norwegian soldiers is being sent in front in dangerous situations and is therefore pressured to take part in active acts of war. Former Minister of Defense Ine M. Eriksen Soreide was very clear that Norwegian soldiers were not going in active acts of war. Today's Minister of Defense has also communicated that we should train forces, and there we should not come into battle. Does the government expose Norwegian forces to greater danger than is necessary and does it expose a Norwegian force to greater danger than the Stortinget has been informed of?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1086	I'll say the opposite. If the mandate had not contained the possibility for Norwegian soldiers to protect themselves and protect their allies and those with whom they work, there would be a considerable danger for Norwegian soldiers. The Advisory Board is linked to the management elements of the Iraqi security forces. When the Norwegian Force Commander provides operational advice, it will have to be done where the Iraqi leadership is located. The Norwegian forces that provide strength protection could then be a long way away. Other things are if the Norwegian forces to provide strength protection will be able to stay closer and thus be involved in the operations. Then, of course, it's a bigger risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1091	It is important that we act in harmony with international law. It is international law when it concerns Iraq and the defence of Iraq, which means that one has also had soldiers there, who have also entered Syria. Now the Minister of Defence is not here, and it may be difficult for this Minister to answer that, but does one think that one still, according to international law, has a mandate to enter Syria? Is it true that Norwegian soldiers should be in front of us the way we saw in the video on Dagsrevyen – when we understand from the head of defense that it has been done several times? Shouldn't that training and consulting happen in the back, and there are Iraqi soldiers and troops in the front that have to take the kind of action that we saw on the video?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1096	Of course, Norwegian forces are planning not to participate in the execution of offensive operations, but to follow them and to advise the Iraqi forces when they carry out offensive operations for, among others. the withdrawal of land occupied by ISIL is within its mandate. But Norwegian forces are not involved in any offensive. The Norwegian forces can, according to the mandate, exercise what we call force protection today, and that is what has been done in this case, on behalf of our coalition partners, the Iraqi forces. This is part of the concept, and it is strongly anchored in the mandate of the Norwegian forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1106	‘Being old is not a disease in itself. Studies, including those from NTNU, show that with a targeted training programme, an 80-year-old can achieve relatively easily the same muscle mass as a 40-year-old. What measures will the Council of State put in place in concrete terms to achieve the necessary turnaround in older people’s policies from a one-sided focus on care and care to include also more prevention and mastering measures for all?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1113	As Minister of Older People and Public Health, I want to make sure that we as a society invest in people's health for the rest of my life. Active citizens with good health and quality of life are, in fact, the most important resource we have. The government has already turned older policy into a policy for active older people and a more age-friendly society. In the cross-sectoral strategy ‘Multiannual — Multiple Opportunities’, cross-sectoral activities, participation and healthy ageing are key elements. We live longer, and many are pensioners for decades — years that many older people want to fill with meaningful activities. The government’s public health policy makes it possible for individuals to make good choices for their own lives and health. These include: that the environment is designed in such a way that it is easy and safe to walk, to make errands and to meet others. Activity is about physical activity, but also about social activity. I am very concerned that older people should be offered physical training and activity. Training provides joy and is important for the prevention of falls, loss of physical function, cognitive failure and not least dementia. Many municipalities have established their own training facilities for older people, both with and without care services. Volunteers also provide services such as walking groups and seniority. All of this will be raised in the new big-time news of Life throughout our lives so that other municipalities can gain inspiration and get ideas they can use among their inhabitants. We are also working on a new action plan for physical activity, which is due to come in 2019. Active and healthy ageing training will be an important part of this action plan. We are also renewing the care policy. Many older people want to live at home for as long as possible and live an active and independent life. Therefore, we need to upgrade the services in the municipalities so that older people can get the support and help they need in their own homes. I will return to this in this new reform. This is not least an area that I personally am very concerned about. Many of our older people have better prospects for living active lives now than the previous generations had. Older people are valuable contributors who have to get away with it. Care for the elderly is about giving older people the opportunity to master their own lives throughout their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1128	One common misunderstanding is that the Health Directorate recommends only 30 minutes of exercise every day. That's not right. The Directorate says: ‘In order to achieve health benefits, adults and older people should exercise up to 300 minutes of moderate physical activity per week or perform up to 150 minutes of high intensity’. [[...]] And on the other hand, ‘Exercises that increase muscle strength should be performed two or more days a week.’ [[...]] What will the Council of State do to put these advice directly into practice? I understood that the Council of State in its response referred to municipalities, volunteering, strategies and plans, but it should also follow the means and measures of government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1143	Once again, I would like to refer to the reform that I will join the Stortinget in a short time. In it, there are just concrete measures and proposals that are already used in some municipalities today, and I am concerned that the municipalities should learn from each other. This also includes what the representative addresses: How are we going to be able to make older people more active? Then it is important that we also add up to low-threshold services, which may be the first step. There should not be a full roll – to use such an expression – for everyone right away. You can start in the small and maybe try to go down the stairs to the first floor and take the elevator from the second floor and up, for example. You have to make opportunities that make people see that activity can also be just walking around the house twice or wearing the shopping bags in two different bags. Then you get strength training. We have to start at a level that doesn't make it too insurmountable and that doesn't put the list too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1150	I would like to remind you that my question was mainly about improving physical health through systematic and relatively high-intensity training, where an 80-year-old aged 12 weeks can easily get the same muscle strength as a 40-year-old. We know that the proportion of older people is increasing rapidly, and what is increasing first is the proportion of 65-75-year-olds, so it is not useful to wait until people become in poor shape to initiate measures. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the proportion that increases most now, 65-75-year-olds, can be in good shape even when they are 80 years old?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1157	It is true that the individual elderly also need to be involved and see the possibilities available. I've read the same NTNU study that I think the representative Jacobsen refers to, that in twelve weeks you can manage to achieve the same muscle mass, and that strength training is important. The older you get, the higher you should give priority to strength training compared to conditioning training. I am fully aware of that. However, each elderly person must also take responsibility and be involved in this. It has not been given that everyone can do this, so I also think that the municipalities must be proactive. They will be given opportunities through this reform, including: to put in place a support device in order to initiate that revolution – it is actually important not to end up on the sofa, in order to use such an expression. I think we're all very concerned that the future of our elderly is in both being physically active and eating well and healthy. It will also be good for the mental state. So I think we have to look at the whole approach to our older people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1167	First, I would like to thank the Council of State and the representative, Mr Jacobsen, for a good training tip. ‘The number of persons with dementia is increasing over the years and is already a financial challenge for many municipalities. Top funding for particularly resource-intensive services is lost when the user reaches the age of 67. From then on, the usual rules apply to transfers to municipalities, which are far from consistent with the real costs associated with patients with particularly high manning needs, including: due to unobtrusive behaviour. Does the Council of State agree that this poses a major challenge for many municipalities, and how will the Council of State assist municipalities in ensuring those people with the most worthwhile care provision for years to come?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1176	First, I would like to tell the representative that I agree that this is a challenge in the municipalities – without any doubt. We see that the percentage of demented, which is growing now, is demanding. We also see that very many of those who get a diagnosis like dement are younger and younger. So this is demanding for everyone: how do we meet this? The older part of the population is a large group of caregivers in municipalities, and there will be much older in the coming years. The care services will be given more and more demanding tasks, including: because many people want dementia. The Top Funding Scheme for Resource-Required Services was introduced in 2004. The majority decided that the scheme would only apply to recipients under 67 years of age. I Prop. 1 S for 2017-2018 for the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation states that the grant scheme applies to recipients until their 67th birthday. For older people over the age of 67, some of these costs are captured by the normal criteria in the cost key for municipalities. This is the basis for the cost-balancing and distribution of the framework grant between municipalities. Dementia is one of the most increasing diseases worldwide. Here in Norway it is estimated that about 70 000 people suffer from dementia. But probably the number is too low. Dementia is therefore a major challenge both for municipalities and for specialist health services. Dementia plan 2020 is the government’s plan for a more dementia-friendly society. The actions of the plan shall contribute to the creation of good, flexible and adapted services with a focus on prevention and diagnosis. Not least, good follow-up of patients and relatives is important once diagnosis has been made. The dementia plan is an important basis for the work of creating Life throughout my life, the reform that I have now mentioned several times. I will soon come back to this in a separate message to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1189	Firstly, it seems that the Council of State has a picture of how demanding the situation is, which corresponds well to what we see. That's a good starting point. Then the rest becomes a matter of priority and of doing the right things. Some of these that now require the most resources, require one-to-one or two-to-one manning around the clock. This represents the expenditure of each individual amounting to several million kroner. When, after people reach the age of 67, the municipality receives significantly less support from the state, it is clear that this poses a major challenge. Are the councils concerned that the municipalities here have challenges that can vary a lot – by chance or by how many there are in the individual municipality that need help?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1194	Yeah, it's a challenge. But I think we should think a little bit alternately as well. The community as we know it now changes, and it changes quickly – not only by getting many more older people going into the same sector, but also by getting complex, complex disease diagnoses that we have to take care of in the municipalities. So opening up more so that several occupational groups can enter the health and care sector in municipalities is also important. We have to tear down the silhouette sink. We have to think wide. I've been traveling around a few of the last few weeks. Municipalities are well aware that they will be charged with a daily allowance for demente from 2020. There is already today, and has been for several years, a grant that municipalities can apply for in order to obtain this daily offer. What we see is that not all the municipalities have used it. There is a question that we need to ask ourselves politically: why are the municipalities not on the track and ensure that they receive grants, now that there are still grants in 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1201	Good day care for demente can have a preventative effect and is very important for the quality of life. The Council of State is really pleased that the Stortinget has asked the government to ensure that the State grant to such places outside the municipalities is increased from 30 to 50 pst. ? Finally, a lot is about money. When the government says in its dementia plan that there will be twice as many people with dementia over 30-40 years, does the Council realize that it is necessary to significantly strengthen the local economy in order to meet these tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1208	The municipalities have now received substantial grants under the framework in recent years. And local democracy is committed to the fact that the municipalities themselves need to know where they want to come in. We are also very aware that many municipalities out there do not always have the right priority when allocating funds, when the budgets are to be settled in December of each year. I myself know very well, as a municipal politician for almost 16 years, that it is sometimes demanding. In the reform we are presenting, we see that it is important to have relief in place for the relatives, who make an excellent effort, and who also get very worn out. It is also important to look at alternatives, such as music therapy, sensory therapy, etc., which are a little alternative form, but which make demente actually do better. It is also important for demented people to be able to stay at home as far as possible, and we are doing very much for that. We are facilitating that many more people can live at home with the right means.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1219	This question, from the representative of Anette Trettebergstuen to the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health, has been transferred to the Minister for Culture, who is directing it, but will nevertheless be answered by the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health on behalf of the Minister for Culture, who has left. The question will be raised by the representative of Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1224	From one shiftman to another, I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health: ‘For many older people, the volunteer centre has become both an informal meeting place, a place where you can get practical help, but also a place where the individual can contribute his/her work and knowledge. Despite numerous warnings, the government transferred the appropriations for the framework grant in 2017, and the result has now been made clear in reduced aid, according to studies carried out by Norway’s Volunteer Centres. Will the Council of State contribute to the return of the centres to their legitimate place in the State budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1233	The decision to transfer responsibility for the volunteer centres from state to municipality was taken by a majority at Stortinget following the appointment of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. In line with the Committee’s recommendation, a transitional period of four years, i.e. from 2017 to 2020, was set up, during which the allocation to municipalities of volunteer centres is included as specifically allocated framework grants year by year. In 2017, Stortinget granted a record amount to volunteer centres, with an increase of 20 million. kr. The individual municipality received an increase of 47 000 kroner per head on average. In addition, 18 new volunteer centres were established in 17 municipalities in 2017. In 2018, the appropriations were increased by a further 20 million. kr. The government has contributed two consecutive years to the largest increase in funding to volunteer centres ever. This provides an opportunity to strengthen the provision made by the volunteer centres. After only 15 months of a transitional period, it is premature to conclude that the transfer of responsibility for the volunteer centres from country to municipality has taken place. The fact that some municipalities and volunteer centres will need some time to adapt should not surprise anyone. Voluntary centres are locally anchored and developed on the basis of local assumptions. The centres depend on good cooperation with local authorities and non-governmental organisations in order to be able to operate well. Municipal overall responsibility for the centres facilitates the further development of the scheme in line with local needs. By transferring the grant to the municipalities, the municipalities have been given greater and more overall responsibility for volunteering, and that was also one of the reasons why this was a proposal that was adopted. When the government’s appropriations for the volunteer centres have increased, there is a clear expectation – and I put pressure on ‘clear expectation’ – that municipalities should also give priority to volunteer centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1244	I thank you for your answer and for a thorough explanation of the change that was made. But for older people who experience less money from their volunteer centres, it does not help that the intention was that the appropriations should be maintained. We talk very often in this room about how important it is that older people help the elderly, that older people can be active, that they have a social community, that we want to fight loneliness, and that not everything can be solved by the state. The Centre for Volunteering is an excellent tool for achieving all these objectives. My impression was that this was almost a technical change; you were just going to move appropriations from the state to the municipalities, but for the volunteers there was no difference. On the contrary, you would like to receive a reinforcement. Then my question becomes: why in the world would it be implemented – if the goal was for the volunteer agencies to get this money? Had it not been a simpler and safer way to maintain the direct State grant or designate the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1259	The aim at the time was to give municipalities a better overview – for one covering the whole voluntary sector – to see alternatives: how do we perform the tasks of our volunteer centre as best as possible? What can be done by volunteers and organisations, who can be involved in this interaction? What may bother me – and I am quite convinced that the representative Giske sees it the same – is precisely that the municipalities must be conscious of their responsibilities here. For even though the funds have now come, one sees that the municipalities largely carry on only the percentage that was around 40, with which they contributed before, that is what they are still transferring, but they do not take into account that they have received state resources from the framework grant which is also to be provided. Then we might have to be a little bit clear and say: you know, there's actually enough means to carry on and do a good job in the municipalities so that the volunteers can deliver what was the intention here from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1266	Once again I thank you for the answer, but I feel that there is a contradiction here. On the one hand, it is said that the reason for moving this money to the municipalities was that the municipalities themselves should decide: are there voluntary centres, are there other measures, or are there entirely other areas of policy and society to be given priority? On the other hand, it is said that it was absolutely essential that support for the volunteer centres was maintained. You don't get in both bag and bag here. The Norwegian Voluntary Centres have found out that 50 pst. voluntary centres have received less funding than the Storting's assumption. 90 pst. gives the money that is in the green book, what the government budget decides, but on top of this money, municipal funds were also used, and when this was combined, the municipal funds are cut off. Among other things, small municipalities tell us that they are moving from a full-time job to a half-time job as head of the volunteering centre. This weakening also weakens the possibility of volunteering, so the loss is many times as great. And that's when I ask, wouldn't it have been much better just to keep the direct arrangement we had?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1273	First of all, what I said with evaluation: now it's been 15 months. I think we'll let it go a little bit longer, and then see if this works or not. Now let's do it first. So this is actually also a political discussion about local democracy versus the designation and use of designation. I also know that the representative Giske represents a party that also looks at the opportunities of local democracy to make the right choices. And once again, when the evaluation comes, we have to see if this works, or if we have to be a little bit tougher and actually say that it's so important for us that this works out in the municipalities that we want to introduce, or look at, new measures. Then I would like to remind you that when the Life Reform comes throughout life, the volunteering and volunteering centres are in the context of volunteer coordinators, in the context of health centres, etc. important – it happens very well in the municipalities. So I think we're going to be able to sew this together so that it works best, with the user in the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1285	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Older People and Public Health the following questions: ‘To many LHBT people, getting older means a lot of uncertainty and fear. The elderly today with LHBT+ identity experienced morbidity and criminalisation for many years because of their legation. Will the Council of State initiate more research on older LHBT+ people in Norway to identify the specific challenges they face by getting older and how to adapt the assistance provision to this group?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1294	I thought I'd put on another letter and hang on to an 'i' for intersexuality, which is the new term, so that we have the entire width and do not exclude anyone in terms of LHBTI. The government will ensure good health care and care that provides safety and dignity for the elderly and others who need it. Everyone shall receive good and equivalent services regardless of age, gender and not least sexual orientation. Each one shall be met with respect and openness. Services must be organised on the basis of the patient’s needs, and it hurts me that many older LHBTI people experience being sickened and stigmatised because of their orientation. We don't want it like that. I am therefore pleased that the government has presented an action plan against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression. One of the objectives of the plan is to ensure the rights of LHBTI persons. In 2017, the government presented its own strategy for sexual health. The plan foresees that older people living in institutions or receiving services at home are to enjoy privacy and the possibility of living together regardless of sexual orientation or civil status. We're going to develop services based on what's important to the individual. Older people want more personalised services and more personalised care. It's one of the most important feedback we've received in the work on Life all our life, which comes before summer. Older people want to be the boss of their own lives and get the opportunity to live their lives on their own premises, even when they're in need of help. A service that asks you what's important to you is a service that takes care of the elderly as whole people, regardless of background and regardless of sexual orientation. Life stories, values and preferences of residents shall form the basis for the design and implementation of the service provision for each individual. In the new message that comes, we're raising this value base, and I think and hope it will benefit all older people, including older LHBTI people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1305	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. We're not going to go into a conceptual discussion, but LHBT and LHBT+ are taking the different groups that go under that term. Now leave it. I had hoped the council had answered the question and brought something more binding than just party speeches and words. I can recommend the Council of State to look at the Labour Party-led Oslo, where the City Council has committed itself to launching research on the situation of older LHBT people and invited the establishment of a visiting service for older LHBT people. What can the government learn from Arbeiderpartit-steered Oslo in working with older LHBT people?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1312	More knowledge, more research, as the representative addresses in his question, is an important piece in this. I am convinced that both the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, who has a primary responsibility here, and the Minister for Research and Higher Education are also concerned about this. I, as a senior and public health officer, will at least continue to focus on this area. My goal is for everyone to live their lives with dignity. No one has to feel that they have to go back into the closet when they become retired. This is about the elderly who stood on the barricades and fought rights for others at a time when homophilis and other things were banned. Fortunately, society has become much more aware of this than just a few years ago, but we still have a long way to go in terms of knowledge and attitudes. It also applies to healthcare. I'm open to learning from all the municipalities that do a good job. The most important thing for me is to put the user in the center. No matter which municipality provides good services, we have to learn from each other. That's what we're going to have in the reform Life all our lives. We're going to learn from each other in order to roll out all the good stuff out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1321	I thank you for the answer and am very happy to hear that the Council of State is willing to learn from the Labour Party-led Oslo about how we can take better care of our elderly, including our elderly with the LHBT identity. FRI, the Association for Gender and Sexuality Diversity, and the Church’s Bymition have an action at the Kampen Omsorg+ in Oslo. The offer has been visited very well and is also sought elsewhere in the country. Will the Council of State facilitate access for older LHBT people to safe meeting places throughout the country? And how will the Council of State ensure that senior care employees have the competence to meet LHBT people in a safe and transparent manner?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1328	This is why the government has set up its own action plan against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. One of the important measures in which awareness and competence in health services around these individuals have been increased. This should contribute to the best possible perception of the health service meeting that no one should feel that they have to hide who they are. Once again, I would say that when there are good actions, it is precisely when we are going to learn from each other. This will be seen when this reform is presented. Now this becomes repeating, because there's so much that comes there, that touches just this. One will see that one has to learn from each other. Many of the recordings that have been made – and we have received 230–240 different proposals – are based on municipalities where the Workers' Party sits in the driver's seat, municipalities where the Christian People's Party sits in the driver's seat, or the Center Party, precisely because this is a cross-political plan that we are going to get and lift in flocks. I hope that is a good response to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1336	This question, from the representative of Tuva Moflag to the Minister for Older People and Public Health, has been transferred to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs as the appropriate representative, but will be answered by the Minister for Older People and Public Health on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1341	‘By means of new technologies and digitisation, better welfare solutions can be made available to citizens. For many, however, this is perceived as a loss, since they are no longer able to use the services. The SSB estimates that 400,000 inhabitants in Norway are not using the Internet. What will the Council of State do to prevent digital exclusion in an increasingly technological and digitised everyday life, and does it support the proposal that all written communications with the State should be digital by 2025?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1348	I thank the representative for this question, because I think it is very, very important. We have seen that it has also been raised as a matter in the media. I'm particularly concerned about it, because I had my mother in this outside closet -- to call it that. I think the days are demanding in many areas for those who are struggling with this. The Government has the ambition that Norway should be at the forefront of the international development of digital administration, and online services should be the general rule for administrative communication with citizens and businesses. The Government aims at enabling all residents to operate themselves online, not least in the case of public services. To achieve this objective, all must be guaranteed access to networks and have a minimum of digital competence. In order to ensure that as many people as possible are able to make use of digital services, the government has for many years supported various measures to help those with little or no digital competence. Senior net Norway receives annual funding to train and train older people in the country. Many municipal public libraries offer help and training in the use of different Internet services and the use of digital tools. The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation has for several years provided grants for various measures to increase the digital participation and competence of the population. The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation has also signed an agreement with the KS to develop Digihelpen, an offer around the country. The Digihelp service shall be a low-threshold service for citizens who lack or lack digital competence and shall assist them in the use of digital public services. And we see in the whole life's reform, that comes, that different municipalities are testing out different possibilities for connecting the generations. If I remember right here I'm standing right now, I think, among other things. The municipality of Horten has added some student cabins to the nursing home, where students can rent cheap furniture to participate in the afternoon with digital training and be active in the everyday life of the elderly at the hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1359	I thank the Minister for the answer to various training measures, but my question was whether she supports the proposal that all written communication with the State should be digital by 2025. Despite these measures, over 400,000 people in Norway are not using the Internet. Should they be forced in, or shall they meet with respect and a service they can use? I want the Council of State to clarify its answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1364	I support what the government has put forward, but I also think that we need to look at the challenge. How do we get out? Municipalities also have a great responsibility for how they reach their inhabitants. Among other things, I have had a dialogue with different municipalities, and not least with KS, that the municipalities, for example. can create a sort of telephone directory with the most important phone numbers on paper, because only it is a challenge for very many older people who do not have access. They don't get a phone catalogue, and when they can't go online and Google, they're sitting there. There is one thing I encourage the municipalities to look at – or to go out with important information in the mailbox of older people who need it. It is also important that the municipalities know their municipality, when it comes to knowing who is struggling. I have also taken that survey up and said that we must meet these people with dignity. They shall have the opportunity to participate in society as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1369	I am uncertain whether it is to reintroduce the telephone directory, which is the most important measure. However, it is positive that the Council of State refers to measures adapted to those outside the digital sector. I want to ask a specific question, because many people have been frustrated that they no longer have access to the pension loop. On 1 July of this year, pensioners who need it will again have access to the pension slip on paper. Is the Council of State happy that pensioners are once again given access to important information on their wages and taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1376	I'm glad everyone gets what they need. Of course I am. I mentioned in my answer to the previous question just some of the issues. That's a lot more to do. It was just to show a little picture that the most important thing is the municipalities that have a responsibility here. I think there's a couple of things that are also demanding, and that one has easy to forget. It's that the elderly very often cannot use the smart technology. They may want to, but they can't because they have dry hands. Using fingertips in smart technology is not easy. This is why, among other things: The Cancer Association went to purchase something called KOMP, which is a means of getting a lot closer contact via a system. There's some kind of enlarged iPad, where you have an off- and on-button, and where you can get a lot of knowledge through just the off- and on-button. You don't have to have all the knowledge you need. There's a lot going on in this area out there, and I think a lot of people in the market will also be offering different things so that we can meet this challenge. And I support that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1386	‘The JELUEA statement states that it will compete for better services and efficient service production, and that private providers should be able to compete for the provision of publicly funded services under the same conditions as public undertakings where that makes sense. What will the Government and the Government do to ensure the pay, employment and pension conditions of employees by outsourcing and/or privatising elderly care services in municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1393	The patient and the user shall receive adequate quality of service, irrespective of who is the provider of the service. I'll make that clear in the introduction. Both the Health and Care Services Act and the Patient and User Rights Act state that patients have the same requirement for good and sound services, regardless of whether they receive services from the municipality or from private operators who have an agreement with the municipality. The government believes that the public sector must take the lead in promoting a serious working life, including in terms of acquisitions. Regulation on pay and working conditions in public contracts obliges public undertakings to impose certain pay and working conditions on suppliers. The regulation is based on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. The Labour Inspectorate supervises compliance with the obligations imposed on public undertakings. The Regulation requires that the working time, remuneration and cover of travel, diet and lodging expenses be in accordance with the General Regulation, where applicable. Where the general regulation does not apply, the pay and working conditions shall be in accordance with national collective bargaining agreements for the industry concerned. In determining the conditions to be required under this Regulation, it has been assessed what is permitted under EEA law. In particular, the rules on the free flow of services apply. In the case of pension entitlements at a certain level, this must also be assessed against EEA law. For the sake of order, I would like to point out that issues relating to pay, employment and pension conditions were addressed in the context of Document 8:32 S for 2017-2018 on ensuring transparency in health and care institutions providing services under municipal law. The government then requested to assess how it can be ensured that actors receiving government grants for the operation of health care services have wage, labour and pension conditions in line with those of public enterprises. The government will therefore appropriately return to Stortinget with this. It's working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1406	I thank you for your answer. Yesterday, the capital increase took a decision against the votes of the government parties, where the Storting asks the government to consider how to prevent the use of public sector tenders from weakening the pension conditions of employees. It's especially where one sees the big differences, but of course also when it comes to wages. When the JELUEA statement says that private individuals will compete under the same conditions as the public authorities, I wonder if, after the Council of State definition of ‘competitiveness on equal terms’, it actually happens when a private provider can take out large dividends and disregard employees’ salaries and pension rights already earned on competitive outsourcing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1413	The rules on pay and working conditions only regulate what contracting authorities must require, not what they may choose to require. A complete assessment has not been made as to whether there is room for requiring other pay and working conditions, e.g.: pension entitlements at a certain level. Such requirements must include, inter alia: assessed against EEA law. I think that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will be able to elaborate this much more later, as this issue affects her field of action the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1420	I thank you for your answer. My question really focused on what the Council of State itself thinks is the definition of «equal terms». In order to angle it a little differently: the Yeloya statement also says when it is ‘reasonable’. In Drammen, the municipality under the Right and Advance Party has since 2016 dropped 5 million. out of the window to market private home care on glossy paper to all applicants for municipal services – one of the providers was Unicare, which we know has low salary levels and poor pension rights – but users do not want it. Yesterday, the loss project was buried – against the votes of the Progress Party – by the municipality itself. Does the Council agree with its party traps in Drammen that this loss project is a sensible form of outsourcing of public elderly care and a sensible use of public money?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1427	I think what each municipality sees as important for itself and its local authority is important. I do not decide what the individual municipality and our representatives have chosen to do. Then I have to get involved in the matter. And I can't go into a single decision made in the Drama, if I understood it correctly. Otherwise, it is up to the individual municipality whether it wants to make use of private suppliers — and, where appropriate, free choice of user choice. The responsibilities of municipalities for providing necessary and sound services to patients and users are established. The Health and Welfare Act allows the municipality to enter into agreements with other public or private operators on the provision of services. But in any municipality one should be very careful about what users – who should be in the center – want. If there are areas that don't work, I think you should use the opportunity you have, both for the right of appeal and to go deep and see what can be done better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1437	‘In 2007, the Stoltenberg II Government established the Cultural Spaserstick, DKSp, which, through earmarked funds, gave older people good cultural experiences. In 2014, the blue-blue government proposed to put an end to the scheme. After a lot of pressure, DKSp was continued, but then without earmarks. Can state the use of DKSp today, i.e. economy, number of performances, geographical impact fields, etc.?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1444	This government will ensure a good and dignified care tailored to individual needs. The offer must be further developed in order to provide all those who need it with an offer of quality and not least activity. Unfortunately, a number of studies suggest that today’s care services are scarce in the social and cultural fields. In particular, this applies to residents in hospitals and nursing homes, as well as to those in need of assistance. Activity and community is one of the main areas of the Life Life Reform. Many municipalities work systematically and well to meet the social and cultural needs of users. For example: Kristiansand municipality has established their own cultural scooter. It is a mobile cultural intermediary that facilitates cultural experiences for people who are unable to visit cultural services themselves. In Trondheim they have, among other things, through the means of the Cultural Spa, as mentioned above, a number of cultural events at different arenas throughout the city. At the same time, they offer events at health and welfare centres and neighbourhood arenas in all parts of the city. Through the new reform that is coming, we need to spread good experiences and ideas so that municipalities can learn from each other and choose good solutions for the benefit of the individual user. Municipalities and local democracy are strongly in being able to choose the devices and measures themselves. As of 2014, the funds allocated to the Cultural Spaserstock were allocated as part of the framework grant to the county municipalities of the State. The more specific issues of the cultural spaserstick relating to the economy, the number of performances and geographical impact fields must therefore be addressed by the representative Henriksen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The Minister of Culture may also be in a position to address some of the follow-up questions as the cultural spaserstock was originally under the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1457	I assume that different government councils can both talk together, send e-mails and via other communication find out the information you need when you contact the government. There's a lot of commitment out there, which the Council of State quite rightly pointed out, to secure social experiences and culture for the elderly. That's a lot of good examples. It is also such that these offers have to be designed locally. When the Right-Fremskrit party government proposed to lay down the cultural spaser stick, there was an almost insurrection in many places, and it was not graciously taken up. Now, fortunately, the funds were not removed, but the ear tag was removed. If it is believed that many of the funds are used as intended, and that is an important offer, the Council of State will not, at least because it seems to be an interesting idea to get a proper overview by having a simple reporting for the use of the funds, among other things. to see how best to strengthen the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1466	Now it is that the funds were transferred to the county municipalities. Once they have been transferred, the municipalities themselves must attend and apply directly to the county to release funds, not the Ministry of Culture, as it was before. It is once again intended to provide diversity — each municipality being unique in its own way and setting up its own business. Now that we've traveled around collecting information and knowledge about what's happening on the cultural level for the elderly and others out in society, in connection with the Life Life Reform, we see that many municipalities are doing a wonderful job, and they're solving different challenges in very different ways. I think we should learn from each other. It's one of the most important things. Resources are an important piece in this, which the representative also takes up, but I also think that we should not let local democracy be confused because we have changed the line to apply for funds. I think it's important to be in and know your own municipality when applying for funds, in order to get good cultural action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1475	The most important thing is the knowledge and commitment locally, and the transfer of funds to the cultural spaserstock to the counties actually happened under the red-green government. What we know is that cultural experiences can have major psychological and health effects for the elderly. It can enrich your lives, for example. strengthen parts of the memory of people with dementia and memory impairment. There is a lot of good work done in many places, and what is interesting for the Workers' Party is how to strengthen schemes like the Cultural Spaserstick and work on culture for the elderly. This involves both sharing the best experience and seeing how resources have been used. We also need to know more about the needs of the elderly and how, for example, we need to know more about the needs of the elderly. the means of the cultural walking stick have actually had an effect. Therefore, I will again ask the Council of State whether she does not think it is important to get a better and correct knowledge of the scheme, and therefore better assess whether it can also be strengthened by national teams.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1484	All knowledge is good knowledge, absolutely. But once again, the more specific questions raised by the representative on the Cultural Spaserstick, in terms of both the economy, the number of performances and the geographical impact fields, must be taken directly by the representative with the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, because that is where it is. Of course, we could talk, but then I would stand here and spend a lot of time just explaining how much is here, and how much is there. I think that's an abuse of time. What I think is most important for us, both the representative Henriksen and me, is to ensure the best possible offer. Then both volunteering and organisations must be involved, and we must be able to build this together. I think that in order to solve this in the future when we know that there will be a lot more older and more dentures, we need the organisations and volunteers on the team. There's one group that's so important, and it's related to the individual elderly. We also have to be able to get into this broad thinking that I am sure the representative is also concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1502	This question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1510	This question, from the representative Emilie Enger Mehl to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1515	‘Why has the Council of State stopped the hunting of the wolf outside the wolf zone when the number of wolves is now far above the agreed stockpiles of the Storting, and how has he considered an increased risk of attack as a consequence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1520	As the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment explained in the Stortinget last week, he has not stopped the fall in the license of wolves. This winter has been completed within the time period laid down in the applicable legislation. So there's no change in this from previous years. This winter the Ministry of Climate and Environment had a proposal to extend the licensing period for wolves outside the wolf zone. The licensing period is today from 1 October to 31 March, and the Ministry asked for views on a proposal for a further extension of the period. A lot of input has been made to the Minister for Climate and Environment in that matter. Among these were also assessments of the risk of so-called genetically valuable wolves being shot during the licensing process. The South Scandinavian wolf population is strongly inbred, and on average, the wolves have a relationship similar to that found in the whole sister. It is a very serious situation that could eventually lead to the extinction of the population. We are therefore dependent on new wolves from the Finnish-Russian population regularly wandering in and establishing themselves in the South Scandinavian wolf population. Regular Finnish-Russian immigrants are recorded in both Norway and Sweden. However, very few of these survive and succeed in establishing themselves in the South Scandinavian population. One consequence of this is that if we don't get healthy genes from several Finnish-Russian wolves, you might want to have a much larger South Scandinavian wolf population, just to ensure the survival of the population, which we are also internationally committed to. In the light of the recordings received, the Minister for Climate and Environment will need some more time to assess the duration of the licensing period. Assessing solutions that provide the best possible protection for genetically valuable wolves may be important if the number of wolves is to be kept at about the same level. the level we have today in South Scandinavia. I would like to assume that the representative is also interested in the fact that we are doing the best we can with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1533	All reports now say that we are far above the stocking target for wolves, and the wolves outside the wolf zone are for the most part reptiles, individuals moving quickly and quickly over long distances. It's very hard to predict their movement pattern. It has to be in everyone's interest that we get effective extraction of those animals, because it's also the ones that have the greatest potential for damage. We have seen that they have caused major attacks, both in 2016 and 2017. So it was a proposal from KMD even to extend the hunting period already this year. Then I believe that there must be very good arguments to prevent more effective hunting of those animals. So out of the 22 hearing bodies that gave their opinion, 19 have been positive about extending the hunting period in advance and 13 to extend it to April. So I wonder, what are the balances the government has actually made between the three bodies that won't extend the hunting period, and the 19 that will do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1540	As I also explained in the main response, and as the representative himself is now involved, there are several recordings that have come in, and there is a need to evaluate those recordings. It is precisely the assessment that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment is now making. It is too early to be able to say how to conclude, but it is precisely the recordings that have been made that are now under assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1545	It's like most, at least those who agree that we have to regulate the wolf population, think there should be local influence over it. That's why we have, among other things, The robbers. I think it's strange that, when a quota is set – there's a process, there's a quota – you can't hunt any more because of three hearing bodies that have recorded that you're afraid of genetically important individuals. There are consultative bodies that are opposed to hunting for wolves at all and are not interested in effective hunting. Then I wonder, what's so dangerous about getting that quota out? Isn't it in the government's interest to take out the allowance, or is it the government's fear that an increased hunting time would also increase the chances of the quota actually being taken out?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1550	We are now in that part of the year in which there is the provision of breeding time for wolves, and it is therefore not appropriate to make a new assessment of the withdrawals in the wolf herd this spring. The stock situation that is finally reported on 1 June will form part of the basis of the assessments to be made on the basis of the share of licences in the forthcoming fall of licences for the autumn and winter 2018/2019. At that time, it cannot be speculated in the number of wolves that may be common to winter. There are issues that will be dealt with – including the representative – by the predatory wildlife authorities and the Ministry of Climate and Environment during the summer and autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1558	This question, from the representative of Solfrid Lerbrk to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, will be raised by the representative of Eirik Faret Sakariassen. I want to say that he might take off the scarf before he asks the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1564	I refer to the Constitutional Act, Section 66, on the freedom of expression of this pulpit, and the Rules of Procedure of the Storting that any objections to the use of language and clothing are raised after the post has been made, and this must be seen in the context. I allow myself to ask questions to the Minister of Research and Higher Education: ‘The University of Stavanger, UiS, cooperates with the Israeli University of Technion, which cooperates with Elbit Systems, which the Oil Fund threw out of its portfolio in 2009 due to ‘in particular serious violations of fundamental ethical standards’. Through its cooperation with Elbit and the Israeli army, Technion contributes to violations of international law and human rights in occupied Palestinian territories. Does the UiS feel that there is a moral and ethical responsibility to avoid cooperation that can help maintain the occupation and violations of international law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1575	The government believes in dialogue and cooperation to resolve conflicts and to create trust and distrust those who call for the boycott of Israel. Norway has close, long-term and friendly relations with both the Israelis and the Palestinians and wishes for broad political, cultural, academic and economic cooperation with both parties. There is considerable cooperation between Norwegian and Israeli researchers and knowledge environments. Norway concluded an R & D cooperation agreement with Israel in January 2017. The aim of this cooperation is, inter alia, to: strengthening academic cooperation in the areas of Norway and Israel is agreed. The government lays down internationally recognised borders when we enter into agreements with other countries. In the case of Israel, this means the territory of Israel controlled before 4 June 1967. The government believes the Israeli settlements in occupied territory are international law-enforcement. The University of Stavanger has a technical collaboration with Technion – Israel Institute of Technology in Israel. The cooperation is anchored in a so-called MoU agreement and is linked to the fields of petroleum technology and the basic subjects of mathematics, physics and chemistry. The agreement was concluded in 2013 and expires on 31 December 2018. According to UiS, the cooperation between Technion and UiS has not had links or cooperation with either the Israeli defence or the company Elbit Systems Ltd. In concrete terms, two UiS researchers have been guest lecturers at Technion in offshore technology topics. Knowledge shared in teaching is the same knowledge shared at open international research conferences and in textbooks used in several countries. In addition, two master students have been on exchange from Technion, one of whom has Israeli Arab background. Today, a scholarship from Technion is associated with the UiS. The UiS agreement with Technion is and has always been built exclusively on a professional academic basis, and the university itself indicates that the professionals have always made thorough ethical assessments of the specific professional cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1588	I must ask the representative Zechariah to take off the scarf before he gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1593	To associate some comments with what's happening in Gaza right now: one has to say that it's heartbreaking. It is not the first time, and I fear that something similar can happen later on. Just to make it clear from this pulpit: SV is not for an academic boycott. I'm not in favour of an academic boycott either. But in this particular case, I believe that one has to make higher ethical demands for that kind of cooperation, because it is a very special institution, which has close links with the Army, which has close links with companies that our own oil fund does not accept. Then I believe that an academic institution must make strict and high moral and ethical demands. Does the Council of State think that the UiS can also cooperate in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1600	I believe that our universities and colleges must be able to stand in these debates that the representative is now addressing. But Norwegian universities and colleges are free to decide what kind of institutions they want to cooperate with. The University and Higher Education Act specifies that universities and colleges should promote and protect academic freedom. Institutions have the right to design their own professional and value-added basis within the limits laid down in Norwegian law. At the same time, statutory academic freedom means that universities and colleges cannot generally impose or prohibit their researchers from cooperating with researchers from Israel. In view of that, I do not think it is right – and I also believe that there is not necessarily a legal basis for – that the Ministry of Knowledge can intervene in the cooperation between UiS and Technion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1605	The Council of State gives answers, and I perceive that one places emphasis on academic freedom. I'm also very concerned about academic freedom, and I think it's important that you can work with researchers from almost every country in the world on a professional basis. But there is a difference between having some professional cooperation and going on with such a commitment and close agreement as this. Now we know that the agreement will be dealt with during this year, and most likely renewed. Then my last question becomes the Council of State in this round: Does the Council of State think that the University of Stavanger should continue this cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1610	As I said in my previous post, there are two aspects of this question. The first is, do we have a legal opportunity to instruct the UiS to terminate this cooperation? Now I'm not going to say that the answer is definitely one or the other, but at least we're clearly in an area where we don't necessarily have the legal opportunity to do that. But the most important question is: do we want the Ministry of Knowledge to go into and override individual institutions in such cooperation as this? To that my answer is quite clear: No. The assessments that the representative here draws up are assessments that the University of Stavanger must take into account in its own institution – these are reflections that they must do themselves, at their own institution. For me, this is about the autonomy of universities and colleges, and there are just such agreements as this that have to be assessed in their own institutions, and not by the Ministry of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1618	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration the following questions: ‘It was important and necessary for the government to present an action plan against antisemitism on 2 October 2016. Action 6 of the plan is to ‘register anti-semitism as a motive for hate crime in all police districts’. Nevertheless, it should continue to be the case that after a year and a half, the report on hate crime has not been up-to-date as promised by the government and that only Oslo police districts register antisemitism manually on their own initiative. What is the reason why it takes so long to implement points? 6, and when will the government take care of it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1627	In the last year, we have seen attacks on Jewish targets in Europe and have received reports of an increase in the incidence of anti-Semitic events in European countries. There have also been attacks on Jewish targets in Norway, and there are negative attitudes towards Jews in the Norwegian population. The government has adopted its own action plan against antisemitism because we want to address prejudices and hatreds against Jews — in schools, in communities and on the Internet. The Police Directorate publishes statistics on hate crime every year. The statistics do not show how many national reports have anti-Semitic motives. However, knowledge of this type of crime is important. Therefore, the government wants the police to record hate crime with anti-Semitism motives, and this is enshrined in the government's action plan against anti-Semitism. The registration to be made shall take place in the criminal justice system of the police, BL. The Directorate of Police reports that new procedures for recording antisemitism have now been established as a hate motive in BL. The solution is now subject to professional approval in the Police Directorate before implementation can begin. I expect better registration and more precise figures for this type of serious crime in the future. The specific recording solution has taken longer to complete than foreseen. This is due to other changes that have also been made in the criminal justice system, i.e. a purely capacity challenge. I can inform you that this spring, the Police Directorate is completing a joint counsellor for police registration of hate crime. A thorough review of the legislation has been carried out and how registration is to be made. The government's efforts against anti-Semitism are closely related to the government's combined efforts against hate crime, measures also enshrined in the government's strategy against hateful expressions. Once the new registration solution is put in place, we will have a useful tool to increase knowledge and target the fight against hate crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1640	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer and for the fact that things are going to happen now. I very much agree with the Council of State's emphasis on the importance of this, in the light of developments in the world, where there is increased influence – including in us – from cultures where antisemitism is more prevalent. We also see that how people now operate on the Web, this gets closer to many. So it's good that it's going to happen now. But I have to say that when this is now a high priority – as was the case when it was presented in the Action Plan on 2 October 2016 – it has taken a long time. When an action plan is presented to act, it is a long time with a year and a half to implement it. So I expect the Council of State to agree with me – the Council of State is new to the chair and has no personal responsibility for it – that it has been very slow, and that it is a pity that such a matter is not given priority. I would also like to ask the Council of State whether he now knows when, or how, the status of the action plan will be reported.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1647	I do not have an overview of how to report on the action plan elsewhere. However, with regard to this registration, I would like to say that I also think that it has taken a long time, but this should be clarified in practice, both legally and in registration, so that we are absolutely right, and that should be professionally correct as well. So it's important to say that things are not unregistered. It's just that we don't have a registration system in place that makes us get a running statistics of exactly this type, but we're recording hate crime related to other conditions. But I agree with Mr Bøhler. We should get this in place as soon as possible, and we expect to have this in place during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1654	I also thank you for the response. Here it is clear that the Council of State will press, and it is fine. A theme that we also had in the Storting yesterday is whether to control the police in detail or not, and the use of action plans is one way that the Stortinget/government can give a commission to the police – give heavy signals about things to be implemented and where we want it to be done. I would like to ask the Council of State – in the same way as action plans, which we use in a priority field like this, but also within, for example, the framework of action plans. trafficking, trafficking in human beings: does the Council of State agree that there is an appropriate tool in controlling the police properly? And it might also be useful to look at several areas where we should use that tool, for example. what we discussed in the Storting yesterday, where the Council of State stressed that he would give priority to the fight against criminal gangs and would travel more – to focus more on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1663	We have several tools at our disposal when we want to influence and control the police. We have the budget and the priorities and markings of funds that we have there, we have the letter of allocation that the Ministry of Justice gives, and we have action plans. I think all of these instruments have slightly different roles to play. In addition to that, the councillor's leadership is coming. Although we have these action plans, there is a limit to what is a purely police professional assessment. But as politicians, we have a responsibility to make priorities and direction, and action plans are one of the tools that it is natural to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1673	So the ordinary question time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-11.ana.ud431e1687	There is no record available. Thus, the map is currently processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - Then nothing has happened, and the meeting has been cancelled.
