ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e28	The representatives of Mona Fagerås and Hege Haukeland Liadal, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e45	The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e50	On behalf of the representatives of Tore Storehaug, Olaug V. Bollestad, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal to investigate and plan for the introduction of satellite road pricing in Norway to replace today's tolling system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e55	The representative, Petter Eide, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e60	On behalf of Karin Andersen, Freddy André Hövstegård and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure nationwide action against hate crime. The second proposal is from Freddy André Hövstegård, Karin Andersen, Mona Fagerås and myself, and it is a force against abuse and violence in close relations, linked to the work of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e67	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e72	On behalf of myself I propose to stop the coercion of states.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e78	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e83	On behalf of the representatives of Solfrid Lerbreck, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on equal pay – from word to action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e88	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e93	On behalf of the representatives of Jonas Gahr Støre, Ruth Grung, Ingvild Kjerkol, Terje Aasland, Maria Aasen-Svensrud and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on the climate adaptation of agriculture for safe food production on Norwegian resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e98	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e114	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that Trine Skei Grande, Jan Tore Sanner and Harald T. Nesvik will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e123	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. In the ‘Scholesviket’ series, VG has highlighted how the youngest children experience school life. They tell about a school where there's too little learning through play and activity. Before the summer, the Stortinget decided that the government would evaluate the situation of the youngest students, and from the opposition we were particularly concerned about whether the school day has become too monotonous and still. A study conducted by VG together with Professor Eivind Aadland reinforces that concern. They gave two groups of children activity meters, which they used in kindergarten before the summer and again after they started school. The result showed that the children were sitting much more quietly and were less moving in school. We already have a lot of research on how important physical activity is for children's cognitive, social and physical development, and we know how important learning through play and engaging learning is to the younger students. The last time the large majority of the government took part, the government presented a case on how to introduce daily physical activity for primary school students. The Minister of Knowledge now says in the State budget that he will put that decision in a drawer. Instead of working on solutions to follow up the decision on more activity, play and less rest, the Council of State spends time only stressing the difficulties. It is as the so-called activity alliance said in yesterday's hearing to the Education Committee: the government is failing in physical activity, and it is time to limit it. My question is, does the Council of State feel that physical activity in school is important? If that is the case, how does he justify not making a single proposal on how to implement the Storting decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e136	Let me first thank you for a good question. I am concerned that we should take good care of the youngest children in school – that they should experience a good everyday life, with both play, learning and mastering – and I am engaged in physical activity in school. Physical activity is important from a public health perspective, and it is important for learning and mastering. The challenge of the decision presented by the Stortinget is that it conflicts with other proposals adopted by the Stortinget. Should we follow up the decision as it is promoted, that means that we should oblige the teachers to use physical activity in mathematics, in science, in Norwegian, and in social science, in other words, that we, on the state side, should govern the freedom of method in school. The size has also decided: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the teachers’ responsibilities and professional judgement determine the methods and instruments to be used in teaching’. That's the first point: this intervenes in the freedom of method. We can enforce regulations and oblige the teachers to do this, but it would be contrary to another decision the Stortinget has made. Then we've pointed out another possibility, and that's that Stortinge grants the money to make it more physical activity in school. Then we need more teachers. It'll cost billions. There is also a possibility that the Storting may decide. Then I have pointed out that we are now carrying out a research project with the Ministry of Health where we are looking at the use of more physical activity at the youth stage. It's an experiment that I think is important, and from which we have to gain experience. So it is not right that I have said that the proposal should be put in a drawer. I have said that we do not recommend that it be implemented as proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e154	We defend teachers' freedom of action and method. It underlined the Labour Party last spring, when we presented proposals for a trust reform in the school, which the right-wing government voted against. The way a decision is to be made in school, we don't go away; the teachers have the freedom of method. What is alarming is that the government in the draft government budget says that they have no intention of following the Storting decision on physical activity. It cannot be accepted by the Workers' Party, and the Minister of Knowledge makes a number of assumptions that we disagree with that must be prerequisites for physical activity. The government could choose to say that there are challenges, but that they intend to use time to phase this into dialogue with the sector and find good solutions, among other things. based on the schools that do this today, free of charge, as pointed out by the Minister of Knowledge. My question is, how will the Minister of Knowledge behave if the Stortinge once again adopts the importance of daily physical activity? Will he then also refuse to follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e163	Of course, both the Council of State and the Government follow up the decisions made by the Stortingen, but it is also my responsibility, and I would like to stress, to explain to the Stortingen what the consequences of the proposal are. I have several decisions that are contradictory. The majority have decided that teachers should have freedom of method, while the majority proposed here is to intervene in teachers' freedom of method. Nor is it right, as the representative says, that the right-wing government voted against the Workers' Party's proposal for a trust reform. The government doesn't match the Stortinge. That's what the Storing does. A majority rejected the proposal. I am a believer – both to the teachers, to the school leaders and to the municipalities, and that is one of the reasons why I am skeptical about how this should be done. But of course, we are open to discussing different solutions, so that there can be more physical activity in the everyday life of the children in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e170	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tuva Moflag.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e175	Measurements from 2011 show that about 90 pst. of the 6-year-olds, they meet the recommendations of 60 minutes of physical activity each day, while of the 15-year-olds, only half meet these recommendations. 15-year-olds with parents with high education and income are on average more physically active than 15-year-olds from families with fewer resources, affecting their future health. The Labour Party will use physical activity in school to reduce social differences, but this meets the government with passivity. My question to the Council of State is whether the Minister of Knowledge can agree that the school as the only universal arena should have a role in balancing these social health differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e180	My answer to that question is yes. I believe that the school as our main common arena has a very important task in lifting the children who are going to be hung behind in the trade, and helping to lift those who are hanging after in public health and lack of physical activity. I actually think that all the parties in the Biggest are concerned about that. What this is about is the extent to which we, on the part of the state, should govern the teachers and the everyday life of the school. I am absolutely sure that local politicians from both the Labour Party, the Right and the Left are also concerned about this. I think the school is concerned about it. That's why we see that many schools also facilitate more physical activity. I now want to look at the research project that KD is doing together with the Ministry of Health, which is about physical activity at the youth level. It's a particularly important step to look at, and when we see the results coming from there, we have to look at how we can spread these to other schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e185	Tuva Moflag – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e190	The Knowledge Centre for Education concluded in 2016 that physical activity is positive for both health and learning outcomes. Physical activity in school is in other words win-win. In this year's proposal for a government budget, the government jumps over this research and shows no willingness to implement the decision, even though the Council of State shows other measures here. I hope that the Council of State will pick the proposal up from the drawer again. I wonder if the Minister of Knowledge agrees that physical activity can be good for students' health and learning outcomes. And how will he see the link between the freedom of method and the decision of the majority of the Great Britain so that they can meet each other – for the benefit of the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e198	I can say a clear yes to that question, too, that I believe there is a connection between physical activity, health and learning outcomes – and I can also add mastery, because through physical activity you will experience more mastery if adapted to the students. It can also have a positive effect. So this isn't about being for or against, but it's about how we implement this. It is – I would stress that again – my responsibility to explain to the Storting the professional challenges of the decision and point out that here is the decision that conflicts with each other. And it's not just the one decision on freedom of method, it's made a number of decisions that have underlined the room for action of teaching prophecy, and I'm very sceptical that we're going to go too far in influencing this. But now we are also going to carry out a renewal of all the subjects in the school through the renewal, where we are also going to facilitate more practical disciplines, including: in the field of physical exercise, and I think we also need to guide the municipalities and schools in how to facilitate more physical activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e207	Marit Knutsdatter Strand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e212	The majority of the population has placed a clear order for the government, but the government does not follow up. One hour of physical activity is neither costly nor new work – on the contrary. When inactivity threatens public health, the question is more whether we can afford not to. In addition, research supports the positive impact of physical activity as a educational tool on professional performance. It's a win-win measure. Many schools have already introduced one hour of physical activity daily without problem, while others are critical that it is now considered a requirement for all schools. Why somebody succeeds and others don't, we don't know. Is this something that the State Council and the Ministry of Knowledge can dive into, find out and make use of to ensure that all students have the opportunity for one hour of physical activity in school daily, better health and increased learning outcomes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e217	Yes, I think we need to look at the schools that get this into, what they do and how they adapt it. I think that is a sensible approach to this problem instead of saying from the state that just like that, everyone should do it. Of course, such a proposal would also have a cost side. It is not that teachers can do this without having competence and learning resources. Whether you choose to add hours to your curriculum, or you want to use physical activity in the arts and crafts, mathematics and social sciences, this will obviously mean the need for both empowerment and more resources. And it's perfectly legitimate to think that we should give priority. I want us now to have a dialogue in Stortinget on how we are going to deal with this, but the principles of how we run the school, I think, must stand firm. We must have confidence in the teaching profession, trust in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e226	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e231	When the government doesn't follow a perfectly clear decision to grow up, it's very serious. But first of all, the government's scrapping of the one-hour physical activity decision is a betrayal of our young people, because we have enough research through municipalities that have already introduced it today, among other things. right-hand controlled Drammen. It is an investment in the physical and mental health of children and young people that we will in the long term save. But I think it's a paradox that a government that this year received the country's first minister of public health is failing the Stortinge's decision in such an important public health effort. The text of the budget proposal is an alarming one. We ask for one thing, it is not optional, because in this case the government has been hurt by the will. I have one question: Where is the Minister of Public Health? Has the Council seen her, has he talked to her, has she talked to him, and what does she mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e240	I have to be allowed to say that I think that is a very inexcusable question. This is actually my responsibility, I am the Minister of Knowledge and Integration, and it is my responsibility to follow up the decision of the Storting. I have one decision where we're going to run the school in detail, and then I'm sitting with another decision where the Stortinget emphasizes that the school and the teachers should have the freedom of method. Then the representative Toppe believes it is serious not to follow up on the one, but believes that I should not follow up on the other. It is my responsibility to ensure that the Storting is informed about these issues. It's not like we put the proposal in the drawer, it's not like we've written it off. We have said that we will not recommend the proposal as it exists, but we are open to discussing possible ways to ensure that there is more physical activity in school, while at the same time ensuring that it does not go at the expense of mathematics, reading, writing, art and crafts, social sciences, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e245	Mona Fagerås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e250	It is alarming that we have a government that does not relate to decision making. In a short time, they have ignored several majority decisions – and now last one hour’s physical activity a day. Yesterday, the Norwegian Medical Association, the Norwegian Sports Association, the Kreftforeningen, the Norwegian Physiotherapy Association and the National Association for Public Health put together in committee hearings, just to say something about why one hour of physical activity at all stages of the year is important. I don't have to repeat what they said, because I really think we all in this room know how important physical activity is, both for learning and for public health. The state council itself has been talking about the importance of games over the past few weeks. Then I assume that the Council of State also sees that movement and physical activity are beneficial. I can understand that the Council of State thinks it is broken to jump on the order from Stortinget, but if the Council of State itself had taken any action, what would those measures have been?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e259	Now I have pointed out that the Ministry of Knowledge, together with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, is conducting a research project that is just about physical activity at the youth level. As a knowledge minister, I believe that what we should do should be knowledge-based. I'm familiar with other investigations, but here's a concrete project that's about physical activity at the youth stage. We also work with the Ministry of Health and Health on an action plan for physical activity, and of course there will also be kindergarten and school. If I were to point out a path, it would be that we now have to gain experience from those who have done it and who have succeeded in it – and who will spread the experience, who will guide, and who will inspire the teachers to put it into practice. I think that's the way to go – and not that we on the state side should govern the teacher's everyday life. We have to take into account the freedom of method, we have to make sure that students also learn mathematics, reading, writing and crafts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e266	Mona Fagerås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e272	A trust reform wanted to give room for action for a more practical and varied school day. To reduce the test and test hysteria is not of interest to the Council of State either. We could drive with more systematic empowerment, spread the good examples. Instead, the Council of State recommends that no new mandatory regime be introduced. I initially hinted about what I think not to listen to the decision to roll. More than 100 studies have been conducted on one hour of physical activity in school. The studies show that children are getting more concentration, remembering and learning more, getting better mental health, increased well-being and better self-image. What does the Council know, since he does not listen to this research?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e281	I believe I have answered those questions. When the representative says that a trust reform would have solved the challenge between detail management and the teacher's room for action, I have to say that then it is possible that we disagree a little about what trust is. From my point of view, trust is to give teachers a room for action related to, for example: freedom of method. What the representative here is asking is for us to direct the teacher in detail in how he/she is going to teach mathematics, the arts and crafts and the social sciences. It's not to show the teacher trust. Then it also refers to what is called the test and test hysteria. Well, in 10 years, 15 hours of screening and national samples are used – 15 hours in 10 years on national samples and screening tests. It doesn't take much of the school's time, and it's actually the most important task of the school is to teach students how to read, write and calculate and crafts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e290	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e295	Our medieval stone churches are historic anchors, they are important Christian buildings. The medieval churches have been and are buildings that define our culture, our history and our national Christian heritage. If we compare Norway with other European countries, we have few defining buildings for the history of our own country and the cultural heritage we have. At a time when Norway is richer than ever, we can't take care of the little thing we have of this kind of historic building. The fact is that the medieval churches are decaying, and that the medieval churches in stone are the worst church buildings in the world, according to the Church's Employers' Organisation. 37 pst. of the medieval churches in stone have problems with the outer walls, 27 pst. have problems with roofs or towers. And this summer the Minister of Culture announced that the medieval churches should now be lifted, it is their turn, but in the budget it is zero and nothing, it is nada and nothing for these church buildings. That was not what the Progress Party, the Right and the Left prioritised after all. Why is it that when the Left, Right and Advance Party are to take priority, one not the most important, the historically most vulnerable buildings in our country, the medieval churches in stone, but still let them fall away?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e302	I share all the considerations of Battle Violence Vedum. I think this is one of the major challenges for which we have to create good systems in the future. There are also other buildings that are important to take care of. Now you've had a program for the stave churches, which you've implemented, and that's good. Now we need to roll out a program for the Middle Ages too. It's the government's intention to create systems for when we're going to present a new message, both for new laws of faith and life's views and for funding them. There must also be funding for the houses of God for the different religious communities, and there must also be a separate system for the historical buildings, which are not only within the Norwegian Church, but also a few within the other religious communities. We have to make good systems for that. That is what we hope to present in the new message of the faith and the vision of life, which we hope to have completed – right now we are working hard on everything to try to reach it – perhaps just over Christmas. Then I hope that we can achieve a broad consensus in the Storting around how we will manage these buildings in the future, because we need to make arrangements that are more long-term than what is done in one budget financing. We need to create structures that take care of these buildings over time, and that's what we're working on in the department. We also received a new report showing that climate change is making this much worse. That's why it's important to have a green party in government that takes climate change seriously and that makes sure that we don't get bigger challenges with these old medieval buildings than what we see we already have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e311	There are 159 medieval churches in stone, defining buildings that are among the few that we actually have in Norway from that era. Obviously, the individual municipalities that have these churches, they have the privilege of having them, but they also have a very high cost of caring for them. This summer, Skei Grande was in Re municipality, and the estimated figure is 19 million. kr – just there – for the small municipality to take care of its church buildings. What's important when it comes to the problem, when you say during that visit that now it's the medieval churches' turn, is that there's actually going to be money. The programme for the stave churches was completed in 2015. We in the Central Party have made proposals repeatedly to start a work for medieval churches in stone, but nothing happens but celebrations. Why is it that when it comes to the piece, Skei Grande, Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen chose not to prioritize budget money to take care of these church buildings in this year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e318	We hope to create a little more long-term financial instruments. To date, this responsibility has been on the municipalities. I think it's striking, when I travel around the country, to see that there are some municipalities that really prioritize it, and some municipalities that don't. Then I would say that there are some municipalities that have special challenges, so small municipalities with small budgets and that have many churches. I have a special heart for them, because they must also have the opportunity to take care of their houses. I totally share the representative's commitment to these houses. I see that when we find a ship down in the earth from the same time period, we become very enthusiastic about getting it out of the earth, but we have many buildings that actually represent the same time period, and that stand in our everyday lives. I also think that part of the challenge here, is that churches like Re Church are almost not open to people. If we're to develop these as good cultural memories, to which people have a relationship, this must also be church buildings that are used, accessible to people, and to which people build a relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e329	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e334	Unlike very many other countries in Europe, Norway does not have many castles and old buildings, which we can see if we travel elsewhere in Europe. But we have the old churches as important cultural carriers that tell us something about our nation and our history, and as a cultural nation, it's important that we take care of these cultural carriers. It was therefore surprising that in the draft budget there was no single crown for the ancient medieval churches. What's needed is that funds are now set up very quickly to start a rehabilitation program. Why wasn't it even set off a crown for it, so that we could get started with the rehabilitation that the minister of the church himself has said is important to get started?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e339	That's what's left of money. KA gets money to take those state reports. They've done it very well until now, and they'll follow it up. So the department's knowledge base is in and on the job that KA has done to get into the situation of each church. They should have boasted of that. But I don't think there are any individual appropriations going on. We have to create a structure that takes care of our churches, that takes care of the historical part of the church buildings, and it has to come together with a new system of support for religious and life views. The problem today is that if we only create one grant scheme, we will probably introduce the municipalities that have done the worst job, while all the municipalities that have really done a job of caring for their churches and seeing it as part of the municipality's identity and history will be punished with such a system. I want a system that stimulates our cooperation with the municipalities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e346	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e352	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. Norwegian fishing has gone down in the last few years. But who cares about the big money, and who's losing? In recent years, we have seen a development in which the right to fish ends up on fewer and fewer hands – the purchase and sale of fish quotas, where few with good access to capital can accumulate many dishes and large quantities, while the many, most people who live along the coast and who do not have access to capital cannot afford to participate in the gallop. So along the whole coast, we now see young people who want to go in, but who can't afford it because the public right to fish has become a capital product that often costs a lot more than getting into the housing market. It's young people like Eleonora and Springin, 16 years old in North Cape, dreaming of a life at sea, but seeing no possibility of getting into coastal fishing – it's too expensive. It's young people like Magnus, aged 24, who have our fish since he was 15, and who want to fish rather than study, but who can't afford to buy fish quotas and boats for themselves. Or it's about youth like Nathanael in Halsnøy, who fished lip fish, but after the government closed the fish and made it a marketplace, he doesn't see any way back to the fishing he was happy in. What is the Minister for Fisheries' response to all these young people who are now seeing the dream of the sea and a life along the coast become the chair from them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e363	First of all, I would like to thank the representative of Knag Fylkesnes for his question. Clearly, there are different approaches to this issue. Let's first take what's related to youth and recruiting for the profession, because that's important. It is important that we ensure that we can get a foot within the profession, that there are opportunities to do so, and not least that there is also availability of fish and quotas. That's why the government has now made sure that ten new recruitment quotas have been issued, just to try and capture this. They're not local, it's made sure you can get in, get the first foot in the profession. This has been done for a number of years now, just to make sure that the recruitment is there. Then there's been a debate about what's going on in respect of allowances within these sectors. The issue is also linked to, for example: open group, where there has been a significant overfishing, of many thousands of tons, and where you have to look at how things affect each other. I expect the representative to agree that it is important that we have control of the resource take-off that is taking place within the fishing industry. With regard to the quotas, the Eidesen Committee has looked at the allocation of allowances between ship groups, because the government believes it is important that we have a varied fleet, that we have variations in the types of vessels out there, and that we have good recruitment. That is why we have even made arrangements to change the legislation relating to female fishermen, for example. in the case of pregnancy, does not lose the right to fish. In addition, we will come back to Stortinget with the follow-up to the Eiden committee, so that we can discuss the different approaches there and try to get a broad deal in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e376	I thought it was a little direct response to the young people who actually want to get into this. So ten new recruitment quotas are the answer to all the thousands of coastal youths who now want to enter the profession. People I talk to along the coast say that the recruitment rate is like bingo – one sends an application, and then it's bingo if one gets it or not. If one gets it, it's super, then it's full party and full roll. But most of the time no one gets it. Ten new ones – that's the big answer to the government. In 2016, Stortinget decided that the government would come back with a recruitment strategy. We haven't seen anything about it yet. That's one of the appeals we're just sitting there waiting and waiting for. Everyone here knows that what's really the reason young people are being squandered is the amount of money that this government is responsible for, which means that it's going to end up with fewer and fewer hands. Does the new Minister for Fisheries now realize that we have a problem and that one must do something basic to the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e383	Yeah, we're trying to do something about the system. What happened was that Storting refused to deal with, among other things. what went through the law of the obligation system, and we had the Eidesen committee, as we're talking about here, so we're trying to start over there also to try to get a wide deal in place. We need to have two thoughts in our head at the same time – that we need to take care of our resources, and to make sure that we have good recruitment arrangements. It's not like these ten allowances are irrelevant – no, they have a very big impact. Of course, many people would wish there had been more allowances, but we have to look at this from the resource of biomass that we're taking out of the ocean. I also expect the representative, Knag Fylkesnes, to be interested in ensuring the resources in such a way that you can reap this for generations to come. I, as Minister of Fisheries, am not going to be in the rush to risk this, because the resource base is important, and then it must also be the basis of the assessments we make, including within an open group, which is a recruitment arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e392	There will be follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e397	This is not about the resource base. All of us here have a few things to do about it. This is a question of the distribution of fish yields, where the government has managed a policy where there are those who have access to capital – not those who have access to the rich sea, those who live in the vicinity of a rich sea – who get more and more access to the fish. No, it's the ones that have the most money that's the one that's in the first row when fish fleas are going to be bought. It's just to think for yourself, when a base quota is $4.5 million. kr, as we've seen in the fishing press now lately, what youth can afford to buy it? It costs more than getting into the housing market. That's what this government doesn't take seriously. The path will be pulled up, and the dreams of your youth will be stolen from them. And just to take this into account: it is withdrawn from the government because one wants to give what had gone to the cod trawlers, only to the cod trawlers – not to the coastal youth, not to the coastal population. So I ask again, what is the answer, the correct answer? Do not have ten recruitment quotas for youth along the coast – what is the correct answer to how to get young people into Norwegian fishing?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e404	We're doing a series of actions within this. One is, as I have said, recruitment quotas. The second relates to the follow-up of legislation in the case of female fishermen, which reviews the different types of schemes – the district quota system, the fresh fish system, a variety of things. In addition, we need to focus on the total resource base and what we're extracting from resources happening in a sustainable way, so we can pick it up over time. So, of course, I noticed that the representative Knag Fylkesnes and his party have a completely different approach to it. They want, among other things: ensure that part of the cod trawl fleet is to return its quotas and give them to others, i.e. part of this important fishing fleet, as inter alia. ensure that we have raw materials for the industry along this coast, where very many other young people also work. It is important to think about this in its entirety — both sustainability, resource use and not least the widest possible input. But we have to have control of the resources that we're going to pick up from the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e413	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e418	Once again, this is not about putting resources into games; it is about distributing them. Just to take the duty system first: the whole intention that the trawlers get a large amount of fishing was that they deliver the fish to the coast, so that we got annual jobs for the people along the coast. Only 10 pst. by that fish is delivered where it is intended, and large parts of that fish are fished in the middle of the season as fish are rich along the coast. Everyone here, all the parties, are some that this is a scandalous system that you have to do something about. We're all a few of them about that. The question is how this is to be distributed. Should we follow the laws of marine resources, which say that the wild marine resources will contribute to the employment and settlement of coastal communities, or should they, as this government will, help some people to become rich in the community. That was the duty, and then we have the budget, where the government puts up a great deal to feed fish for those who have received far away from where they are going, which is a dagger to people along the coast. So what is the real answer to the government when it comes to how we're going to meet the big challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e429	It is to be given ample opportunity to discuss in the future, for the quota system, of which this will be part, i.e. the Eidesen Committee, the division between the vessel groups, as the representative of the Knag County wants. Yes, there is ample opportunity to discuss this when we get to Stortinget. That's why I've said that we have to try to get a broad deal in place, so that we can get the good debate. In addition, a number of measures are taken. As regards jobs, I fully agree with the representative of Knag Fylkesnes that it is important that we create jobs in Norway. That is why I have had several meetings with the industry myself, where I have said that fish must come ashore, come to industry, so that we can have the increased value creation in Norway, and not to that extent export – among others. Brown fish – abroad. So there are a number of things that the Minister of Fisheries and the Government are working on, because I think this is important in order to increase value creation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e439	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e445	At first I should perhaps welcome the Minister to Stortinget. That's the first time he's here, so welcome him, and hopefully we'll meet here many times. There has been a lot of talk about fishing in the last year, but there have not been so many decisions. A lot of things have been raised that were to come, but things never came to Stortinget. In view of the challenges we face along the coast, there is a great need for predictability in the fisheries policy that is being pursued. To get the country more fish and processed more fish along the coast, you need to discuss politics in Stortinget. So my specific question to the minister is, what things can we expect to get to the Storting in this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e454	You can expect to get a number of cases, but the most important thing is related to the Eidesen Committee, where I have also discussed at an earlier stage with the party leader of Cecilie Myrseth just the importance that we, in Stortinget, sit down and discuss this in a wider sense. Should a change in the quota system, it is very important that it is fixed over time, because there are large investments, it will result in structural changes, etc., and that makes us focus on the totality. In addition, there are, among other things: on the further development of the traffic light system, inter alia: in the case of farming, simply because we have now completed a round of new concessions within that field. And now we're going into a new era in which we're evaluating how this has worked, because even within that sector, we have to make sure that if it turns red, we have to bring down production. So there's a bunch of things we'll get to Stortinget with, and I look forward to discussing these things further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e463	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e468	The Council of State mentioned two issues that come, and in the previous question, in the answer to Knag County, he probably also mentioned that the obligation system comes under the Eidesen Committee. Then I wonder, since you're concerned about a broad settlement, whether the Minister for Fisheries and the Government have taken over the fact that you can't scrap the system, as you tried at last? Would you like to submit another type of proposal to the Stortinget when you may bring it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e473	I have a few years of experience from Stortinget before I became the Council of State, and if there's one thing I haven't planned to do, it's to take away the task of Stortinget Stortinget, and it's the Stortinget that will possibly scrape the different arrangements. It is up to the Storting as a body to take those decisions, in the same way that the Storting is the awarding and legislative assembly. What we're doing, however, is making sure that the Storting gets a good basis for making its decisions, and that's why it takes some time. Had I had a little more than 1 minute, which is the limit on the clock, I would have liked to have come up with a number of other measures. I can mention one thing, including in the field of aquaculture: we have just stopped the proposal relating to a regulation to export farmed fish out of the country, which I believe is important to ensure both Norwegian jobs and the Norwegian reputation in quality, so that we can maintain our market shares as the world's second largest exporting seafood.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e480	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e485	I did not get a complete answer to the question, but I got an answer to a little other things. But I asked what the minister meant, what is going to happen. Do you take over the coastal uprising that was? When you bring a message to Stortinget, are you going to remove the scrapping of the scheme? Would you like to make a proposal to improve the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e492	Now I think we should complete the work related to the message, I think everyone has earned the best possible basis for the Storting to make their decisions. I have great respect for the fact that Stortinget is also going to spend its time and make sure that hopefully we get a good result, which is a pleasure for the whole industry along the whole coast, so that we still have lights in the houses along the Norwegian coast, that we have a varied fishing fleet, and that we have stable and good framework conditions that also include other things than fish. When I myself was on Husøya, in the debate there, including Myrseth's party leader, it was pointed out very clearly that there are also other things, both infrastructure measures and other, that need to be put in place, and that's what this government is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e499	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e504	The Nutrition Committee has been in More and Romesdal for the last two days. We also met fishermen. They raised a concern, a concern that is quite common under this government, that the government would come up with new taxes to introduce. One of the points highlighted was the fear of introducing a ground interest tax on fishing. It would also be natural for fishermen to perceive some signals from the government, and perhaps they are talking to people in the industries such as brewing and the food industry, tourism, aviation and other industries that have been charged new taxes and taxes by this government. The view of the centre party is that the value creation that takes place before fishing should be ploughed back to the communities along the coast and not recovered for the benefit of the state treasury. My question is, can the Council of State reassure fishermen that the imposition of a basic interest tax by the government will not be proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e511	I can at least reassure the representative that the undersigned is doing everything possible to ensure good, stable and long-term framework conditions for the industry. I understand, of course, that the representative is concerned about some of the things that have to do with taxes and taxes, as he himself has helped to oblige the government to investigate new ones, within, among other things. the farming industry, here in this room. The Government is obliged at all times to follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinget. In the case of resource interest rates in the fishing industry, a sample has been reduced to do a thorough job — they had their first meeting yesterday, as far as I am aware — and there are no decisions taken in this respect. Let's make sure we get a review and look at what's sitting there. The representative will then have to ask the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for the tax system – it is not the Minister of Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e519	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e524	Here are several things I'm responding to in the answer. Firstly, it is emphasised that the Central Party was involved in a decision in Stortinget. No, the centre party did not participate in that decision on land-interest tax for aquaculture. Let it be fixed. The basic interest rate debate is a central part of the fisheries policy, and the Minister for Fisheries should be able to answer that question. Interestingly, after five years with the Progress Party in government, there is an uncertainty about whether or not to introduce a new tax. This is a tax that will mean that a greater part of the money spent by fishing industries in the community for good purposes for the creation of good communities will be collected for the benefit of the state treasury. The progress party has a tendency to owe it to everyone else when it comes to taxes and taxes. Now the Council of State has a chance to remove the insecurity of fishermen in More and Romesdal and the rest of the country. So, would you like to introduce a basic interest tax, or has he put those plans away?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e533	The President will recall that the follow-up questions will initially follow up the main question, but the President will leave the Council of State to decide whether he will answer the question and whether it is within his remit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e538	Thank you, President. In this respect, I would like to point out that a sample has been set up to assess these matters, and the constitutional responsibility lies with the Minister of Finance and not the Minister of Fisheries. I would ask the representative to respect the fact that it is the Minister of Finance who then has to ask that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e543	Steinar Reiten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e548	Yes, the Business Committee has just completed a two-day journey in our common home state, More and Romesdal, otherwise on the initiative of the Christian People's Party. We met, among others. representatives of the fishing industry, and an important theme for them, was what will happen to the structural quotas when the time limits apply from 2028 and in the following years. In the meeting of the Industry Committee, the industry’s message was clear and unambiguous: Quotability and decline of structural quotas to the ship groups has been and is the industry’s prerequisite for taking the cost of structural adjustment. Uncertainty about stability and relapse will slow down further positive developments in the fishing industry. The government has announced that in the spring of 2019 there will be a big message about the quota system, based on the investigation by the Eidesen Committee. Can the Council of States promise that the requirement for an uninterrupted decline in fixed-term structural quotas — which will later be fairly unisoned in the various fleet groups — will be met in this big-scale communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e555	The Council of State will make proposals to the Storting and, in that case, the Storting will take the decisions relating to both the set-aside of structural quotas, the allocation between groups of vessels, etc., for it is the Storting as a body to determine it. The government will come up with its proposals. In front of that message, I want to discuss with the parties on the Stortinget, also with the Christian People's Party, to try to find good, long-term solutions that will ensure predictable framework conditions in the years to come, because it needs the industry, and we have very much respect for the industry. I do not conceal that also the undersigned, of course, as Minister has many meetings with the industry around and takes the signals coming from there, and looks forward to being able to cooperate with the Christian People's Party and other parties in the Storting to find the good and constructive solutions that enable us to continue to gain growth and development in the wildfish industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e562	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e567	My question goes to the Minister of Culture and the Church. The Norwegian Church is the country's largest religious community, but the Church is so much more than that. It is our main bearer of the Christian heritage, both the spiritual and the material. With its 1,600 church buildings – scattered around the countryside and cities throughout the country – the Norwegian Church is part of our cultural landscape. In these beautiful houses of God, people have gathered for generations to bring their children to baptism, to give their love vows, and to say good-bye to their loved ones. But also among these great events of life, the Church has been – and is still – for very many people a community where faith finds nourishment and life is given a higher heaven. Last year the Norwegian Church became a fully independent legal entity. In this context, we will also deal with a new religious law that will take over, among other things. The church law. The Ministry refers to ongoing efficiency processes when the State budget chooses to cut the Norwegian Church’s share of 56 million. kr. Although the Norwegian Church is already in the process of improving the efficiency of the organisation, I fear that the government is now taking advantage of the efficiency improvement too early. As a result, people in the districts lose their clergyman, and the deaconal work must be built down. The consequences of these cuts are that the Church cannot fulfill its statutory mission of being a nationwide church. The council and I had the pleasure of being at the opening of this year's church meeting in Trondheim earlier this year, and it has pleased me to hear that she was busy just caring for the Norwegian Church as a people's church for everyone. But with these cuts, the Council of State, in my view, contributes to the opposite. So the question to the Council of State is, does she think it's okay that the Norwegian Church should cut in e.g. performances, with the budget that the government has now presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e580	I agree with everything that Bekkevold said about the Church's position, but it is not right that it is cut. So let's use 2.1 billion. kr in the Norwegian Church in this budget. It's over 70 million. kr than in the previous budget. We've added up by giving money to make church elections, and we've fully financed a pension cost in the Church. That's why there's an increase there. Then you can discuss how quickly you get reorganized, but when you go from 14 units to one, you have to expect that it can do some things a little bit more efficiently. But at first it costs to reorganize. That's why you've granted a little over 40 million. NOK – up to 50 million. kr – to the Church to reorganise, to go from 14 units to one organisational unit. It's been granted for two years. This is money to reorganize the organisation in the Church. This isn't about local performances, it's about going from 14 organisational units to one. And sometimes you have to – when you have got 50 million for two years. kr to carry out the reorganisation – set a line for when the reorganisation is over. So in terms of operating resources, we are now at the same level, also in relation to price increases, etc., as we were in 2016, when the reorganisation started. These are the expenses that the Church has received for that reorganisation, and that's what we take out. Otherwise, it is quite similar to operating resources, and it is a huge increase to the Church – over 70 million. kr – which means that they will be able to do whatever they can. It can't be that when we reorganize things, you just have to have more and more, and you can't see that you also have to find savings when you change the organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e587	There's an improvement in efficiency in the Church, and it's absolutely right that you try to assemble 14 units into one. The challenge is to take out the prize too early, and I fear the consequences of following such a line. Another question: it's not just the Norwegian Church that manages Christian heritage and Christianity here to land; many churches and churches do too. These have previously had the opportunity to apply for the post Grants to private church buildings. But this grant scheme now wants the government to wind up again, and I think, is this part of the supporting religious community policy of the government, and which the council spoke so much about when she moved into the government offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e595	This has proved to be a system where you don't target what you wanted. I would like to refer to an answer that I gave earlier today, which was about finding arrangements to take special care of the historic buildings, which are not just within the Norwegian Church. It's not just with the old medieval churches we have a challenge, we have historical constructions in other environments as well. Especially in the extraterrestrial environment, there are several church buildings that need to be taken care of, including for historical reasons. We hope to see all this in context when we are going to create new arrangements for the financing of the religious communities and the operation of the religious communities, but also of the church buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e602	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e607	Another question we are a little concerned about: Due to a change in the access to information under the Swedish Law of the People's Register, the Norwegian Church has no longer had access to information on when the members of the Church had children since 1 October. Although the law amendment itself came into force last year, the Norwegian Church was not affected by it until the fall, due to a transitional arrangement. For the Norwegian Church, the baptism is the very entrance to church membership and the membership of the community of faith. Although the baptisms sink somewhat, which is naturally seen in the light of increased religious diversity and secularization, there is still a majority of the members of the Church who choose to carry their children to baptism. The Christian People's Party believes that it should have been possible to extend the transitional regime until the processing of new religious law, so that the Norwegian Church had not received this residence in the access to the People's Register. One of the reasons is that the church law is still in force, and it says, «Children are considered to belong to the Norwegian Church from birth if one of their parents is a member.» My question to the Council of State is whether she sees that it is demanding for the Norwegian Church to follow the provisions of the Church Act when they no longer have access to the People's Register.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e619	I also see that this is demanding for the Church, but as the Council of State, I have to deal with what the Storting has decided, and this has been hit quite well from Stortinget, so here the action space is quite small. But I guess this will also be a matter when the new message of faith and life comes – about what kind of approach you're going to have, to what information. Access to the People's Register for the different religious communities I think it's going to be hard to get in there, but I like to discuss this with the Christian People's Party in government – and then I think we're going to be able to find good solutions to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e626	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e631	So the right-wing government chooses to cut to the Church again this year. Based on the previous question asked, I assume that the opposition will again rectify the cuts proposed by the government. Through consultations and strong feedback on the draft budget, we have been made aware of the consequences that the cuts are going to have, and it is going to go beyond the Church's operating room. The Church of People is something we are proud of in Norway. It has a special position in the Norwegian community, and people are in contact with it through life's greatest joys, sorrows and also in distress. 70 pst. of us are members, and it's unique. The Church must still have a room for action in order to be the arena of faith and the intermediary of culture and tradition that we want it to be. What does the Council of State think the Church here has misunderstood since she believes that these cuts are not going to go beyond this space of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e640	I'd like to take this one more time. The church got 50 million. extra kr to reorganise from 14 units to 1 unit; they were also given last year. That means they've had two years to convert from 14 units to 1 unit. It's costing 50 million. kr for each year for two years. Now we're saying that the reorganisation has to be over. That means that this is the money they've got to reorganize the Church, not hire priests in the districts. This is money they're going to spend on creating a new church that's organized as one unit. One can discuss whether the conversion period takes two years, three years, four years or five years – of course one can discuss this – but the fundamental thing here is to understand that this is money that would go to reorganize the Church, it would not go to the priests locally, and then it could not lead to cutting off the clergy locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e649	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e654	It is now at least that this cut in the budget has great practical consequences for the churches of cities and towns throughout the country. There's no doubt about it. An example of the results of the government's cut policy towards the Church is that Kristent Arbeid Among the blind and feeble, KABB, has to lay down their audio library when they now in this budget with a pen stroke lose all state aid. It was a rush. They did not get any warnings that this would happen, no enquiries from the department, but read the budget and then got a big, negative surprise. Why does the Council of State think it right to remove all support for Christian Work Among the blind and the feeble, and that without a single notice in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e661	I've been pretty central to budget negotiations in this house for at least the last five years, and I've been on many of the last 17 years. This has been discussed before. So claiming that there's a whole new debate is probably not right. We're spending it on $60 million. kr to make sure we have an audiobook library. We're using a lot of resources within our national library just to give an offer to this group. So we're going to have different units based on beliefs and life views that are going to work on the same things as the National Library: we think we would have got a much better system if we had put together all these offers at the National Library. KABB is not a visionary society, as it has sometimes been mentioned as in some debates, this is an audiobook service, with one background. I think the National Library can do this job very well in the future, we have a good system for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e668	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e674	When you look at the Church's budget in the state budget, you can see that expectations were created in advance when it came to bets on medieval churches and stone churches, but nothing came, it wasn't prioritised. Looking at the day-to-day operation of the Church, at the framework funding of the Norwegian Church, there is a great deal of turmoil in the Norwegian Church with the dwindling effect. That's why there was a very clear feedback The Church's people gave to the Storting during their hearing: Here it's going to be cut, there's going to be worse services. Then there was a third element that the Church's people raised in committee hearing, and that is that the Church is also largely financed from the municipal budgets, and with the municipal structure that is now, one will also notice that it will be local cut to the churches. So there will be no investment in medieval churches, there will be less framework funding for the Norwegian Church, and it will be a tighter arrangement for Norwegian municipalities that will punish churches around Norway. Why is it that, after all, does not the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left The Norwegian Church prioritize?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e683	I'm not a municipal minister, so I can't comment on the framework, but it's very tempting to say that the economy of Norwegian municipalities is dramatically much better than when the Central Party was in government. You can just look at the number of municipalities that are on the ROBEK list, see the promise that has been made on that part. And that affects the Church, so I take that freedom to actually comment on it. It's wrong that the Church gets cut. The church's over 70 million. kr more in this budget than one year before. But we're saying that the 'pucket' they've been given to do a reorganization from 14 units to 1 unit, has to end after two years. So the opposition likes to discuss if they needed another year to implement it, but it can't be that when you streamline, you need more money for the reorganisation, and then you have to keep the reorganization money afterwards. We would like to give more money to the Norwegian Church. We're doing that in this budget, with over 70 million dollars. kr. But we also ensure that in the reorganisation that is taking place, they have a pressure to actually get the efficiency out through less bureaucracy in the Church. Because we'd rather have more priests – and less bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e692	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e697	The diversity of the kindergarten sector is threatened by the violent commercialisation of the sector. Since 2005, there have been 230 more commercial kindergartens, and 150 ideal kindergartens have been closed down. Ideal kindergartens are bought up or laid down, commercials are growing dramatically. That's not nice. Our kindergartens have become a honey pot for welfare professionals. So it's now three times more profitable to invest and place money in kindergartens than at Oslo Børs. It's completely behind targets, but that's also why the six largest commercial kindergarten groups now have 60 pst. of the entire private nursery sector. Then Stortinget has a proposal for diversity in the kindergarten sector for treatment. At the hearing on the proposal, Mr Kanvas, Norway’s largest ideal orphanage foundation, said that understanding the kindergarten sector as a market with good and safe returns has attracted stakeholders – national and international – to place risk capital in the kindergarten sector. Kanvas also said that international investment funds contact non-profit kindergartens to buy them up. Kanvas is concerned, because they feel that private ideals disappear and are subject to commercial companies. I wonder whether the Council of State first shares the concern of Canvas and other pediatric ideals about the violent growth of the commercial sector, and, secondly, what the Council of State will do to prevent commercial groups from buying up ideals, in order to avoid losing the important diversity of private ideals in the kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e706	Now, I guess we're on both sides on the political scale, too. My starting point is that the children should have a good offer in kindergarten. I believe that they get through the diversity we have in both private, ideal and municipal kindergartens. We are now implementing a quality promise in the kindergarten with the standard of staffing, the standard of education and increased commitment to continuing education, we have introduced free core time for children from low-income families, from two years to five years. So it's a big boost for quality in the kindergarten sector. So it's true that the rules that were put in place in connection with the kindergarten agreement in the early 2000s are not fully valid today. At the time, rules were laid down to expand the kindergarten sector and stimulate private nursery development. It was the government that wanted more private kindergartens, so that more people could have children's playgrounds. And that's good. Now we have achieved full child-care coverage. Now there's another situation on the kindergarten market. That is why today's government has taken the initiative to review the rules and frameworks of the nursery sector, and we are now in the process of investigating how we are going to do it. I am concerned that we must have two thoughts in our head at the same time: we must ensure that public resources benefit the children, while also ensuring that we have a diversity in the kindergarten sector. That's why we have to see these rules in context, and I've blacked the size of this repeatedly. We don't intend to spend more time than is necessary, but we need to make sure that we don't create uncertainty for the many families and children who use the private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e717	There were a lot of words, but there might not have been that much action, and action is needed quickly to avoid the ideal private being displaced from the whole kindergarten sector. As long as a private nursery has received a subsidy from the municipality, the nursery has an eternal right to the grant, even if the nursery changes owner. Some people don't have public kindergartens. They're the ones that are being laid down if the municipality has overcapacity. This means that public kindergartens are discriminated against and actually displaced by some kind of commercial right of way. To remedy this, we suggest that when a kindergarten is sold, a new owner must apply for a new grant. Thus, local democracy can actually control the nursery provision according to the local needs of the municipality. The proposal is supported by the KS, the Trade Union, the Federation of Education and the Ideal Kindergartens. But will the Council of State put an end to the commercial right to drive in the kindergarten sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e726	I do not accept that description of the situation in the nursery sector. I have pointed out, and investigations have pointed out, that the rules that the red-green government put in place in the 2000s are not in today's situation. That's why we're going through the code now. I am concerned that we should create predictability also for the private kindergartens, for all the families that use the private kindergartens. If you use the kind of tu-and-driving policy that the party Red now adds, it will create uncertainty for those who use the private kindergartens. But I have told the Storting that we must create a forward-looking regulatory framework. We also need to ensure good oversight. The civil government has already set up a standard of manpower, and it itself contributes to the benefit of children of more public resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e733	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e738	What we're seeing now is a commercial t-and-driving policy. When it's three times more profitable to run a kindergarten than to be at Oslo Stock Exchange, then we're talking about a real commercial tu-and-driving policy, and not least when the private ideals are put down over a low shoe because the commercial ones take over, we're talking about a commercial tu-and-driving policy. Instead, we want to have a sensible and good kindergarten policy that makes the money allocated to kindergartens go to the children's best and not to super-profit for commercial companies. The right has a reasonable principle in schools. You are against dividends in school because the money is going to the best of the students and not to private profit, as you yourself have said very well. Why is it okay to earn money at a 5-year-old in kindergarten when it's wrong to do it at a 6-year-old in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e745	The President will recommend that the debaters consider whether one can describe each other's policies as anything other than 'run-and-run' and find better parliamentary expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e750	Yes, President, I guess there was a 1-1 on it! I will not use the term ‘tut-and-driving policy’, although I have to admit that I think it was quite comprehensive – at least for my part – a description of Red’s policy! But to the issue addressed: the main challenge in the kindergarten sector is not linked to a dividend. The main challenge of the large gains is related primarily to sales. I am concerned that when we are going to review this legislation, we are going to solve what are real problems. We're not going to create any problems. I believe it is legitimate that people also make money in kindergarten, but that should be within a reasonable framework. The public money is going to benefit the children, and then we have to look at the obsolete code that the red-green government put in place. Now we must ensure a future-oriented regulatory framework. But I understand that it is a paradox for the representative that it is a civil government that is now addressing these challenges and actually ensuring that the money benefits the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e760	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e765	My question, of course, goes to the Minister for Fisheries. The Minister for Fisheries and the Government's proposal to cut down on the industrial policy measures for fisheries have aroused a great deal of concern and irritation along our coast. The driving allowance is a system that ensures that fish are transported from small receptions to further processing, quite correctly if one wishes to have ‘light in the house’ along the whole coast. This arrangement now wants the minister to cut in, and I have to say that amazes me a little. So here's a system where you get too little money. In the media we have been able to read about Karl, who runs Karl's Fish and Shellfish in Tromsø. He has his factory in Tromsø, where we make amazing fish products, and which I recommend to the Minister of Fisheries to go and visit. He has three receptions in North Troms, where he gets raw material, which is important to have production all year round. Now he wants to contribute to getting a reception in Mid-Throms, in the municipality of Dyrey, which is a conversion municipality, so those jobs are of course very important to get in place. He says that when you cut this subsidy, you will also make it difficult to create new receptions – it becomes too expensive to have the fish transported. That's a pretty long distance in the part of the country that I'm from. My question is: what is it that the Minister for Fisheries has understood that obviously not the Workers' Party, Karl or the many fishermen who were at our hearing, have understood, since he believes it is necessary to cut the leadership subsidy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e774	It will always be that when you reduce a budget line, those who can be hit will disagree with it. I have full respect for that, and I understand that. The management grant was evaluated towards the end of 2017. These included: Save the analysis that carried out this evaluation. They recommended assessing the targeting of the scheme. Furthermore, they considered that the system of cross- and profit-making between production facilities, which is largely allocated to one specific company, is difficult to justify. And they go through a number of other points – among other things. related to the royal slug, which belongs to one company in its entirety – where one can look at what is involved in business activity. The operating grant has a number of elements in itself, not only the point addressed by the representative, which relates to the establishment of reception. Fresh fish from reception stations are being fed, bag crabs are being carried from reception station to production plant, herring, mackerel and horse mackerel are being carried, coastal shrimps are being transported from reception station to production plant, cross- and surplus between production plant, well-boating of locked seas, etc. A number of different schemes have been evaluated, and it has been recommended to look at them more closely. In addition, I want to evaluate the scheme for next year, when we see how these things come out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e781	It is good that he mentions the evaluation, but it is a little special that you go right, and not just cut a little, but halves the scheme before you have properly reviewed the evaluation and made suggestions about what you might do differently to make it work better. I think it's a bit weird to start at. I just want to ask, do you think you're going to land more or less fish along the coast if you cut into the scheme? Do you take inwards the recordings that are coming? It might have been better to review the evaluation first and then come up with the measures afterwards? The question is: does the Minister for Fisheries mean that you want to land more or less fish along the coast by doing this cut now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e788	I actually don't think that's going to lead to any more or less fish. It's possible that you might look at other ways to do it, other ways to set it up, but it's not going, I don't think, to affect fishing at all, because there's a lot of activity along the coast, and it's good prices of the products you deliver, so I'm absolutely convinced that good solutions are found.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e793	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e798	The other main questions of the Centre Party are addressed to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration: The size was decided in our introduction of the personnel standard for kindergartens. The centre party has warned against the consequences of implementing this without full funding from the first day. Both the KS and the organisations involved in private kindergartens provide estimates showing that the standard for staffing and pedagogical work involves underfunding the kindergartens of more than 400 million. kr, even if the government believes this is funded. At these times, both municipalities and private kindergartens sit and evaluate the budget for 2019. They're wondering how to do the math. Many kindergartens despair and warn of the need to reduce the supply. Small kindergartens with no capital in their backs are expected to decline if the standard of manpower and the standard of education are not fully financed. Municipalities need to find containment by tightening up other quality measures in kindergartens, cutting school budgets or health budgets. In order to meet the norms, the government now forces the kindergartens to cut into other parts of the operation and, in the utmost consequence, shut down. This concerns kindergartens from north to south, from east to west, including Damsgård Kindergarten in Bergen and Hugestua Kindergarten in Gjøvik, which I have visited. Can the Council of State guarantee that no kindergartens will have to reduce quality or decline, and that no municipalities will have to cut school or health to compensate for the state under-funding of kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e809	I disagree with the premise on the question, namely that the standard of personnel is underfunded. We have applied exactly the same principles as the red-green government used for its proposal for a standard of manning. When the Children’s Home Law Committee came in 2012 – and with the Stoltenberg government in 2013 – the principles for funding staff standards were the same. So there's nothing new in the way we're proposing to fund the standard. It's exactly the same as the red-green government did in 2012–2013. It's also a slightly special description of the local economy. The reality is that the municipalities have had very good years with bourgeois government. The number of municipalities on the ROBEK list has fallen sharply over these five years, and municipalities have had a good room for action to prioritise important services. And then there's a significant point for us that we are now implementing a quality promise in the kindergartens with the standard of living that makes it possible for more employees to see the children, and with more educators who can facilitate a good kindergarten offer for the children. We focus on quality improvement through continuing training, and we ensure that all children can go to kindergarten, by offering free core time from two to five years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e816	This answer does not in any way reassure me on behalf of kindergarten children and kindergartens. The government's promises don't change the total bill. Municipal and private kindergartens have not found that there are 400 million missing. kr. This is based on government's own estimates from Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The fact is that with all the measures taken by the government and with the price and salary growth in the context, there are many municipalities that come out worse and have to cut. The municipalities do their priorities in the light of the conditions given by the government, and the government must be responsible for this. The serious thing now is that kindergartens don't get strengthened, but poor quality. How can the government defend cutbacks in kindergarten, risk of closure, and with it steering towards reduced diversity and potentially a kindergarten crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e821	That, I think, was a very pessimistic outlook. I experience something completely different. I also travel across Norway, from the north to the south, and visit small and large kindergartens and feel that the quality is good. But there are differences between kindergartens. That is precisely why we are now implementing the standard of manning – so that there are more employees, and that we are making a floor. Then it is the nursery garden – which is either the municipality, private or ideal – that is responsible for ensuring that there is a proper staffing in the nursery. With the standard of education, there are also several pedagogues in kindergartens. My starting point is that we should implement measures that increase the quality of all kindergartens and that we should ensure that there is diversity in the kindergarten sector. Then it is the municipalities and owners of kindergartens who are responsible for ensuring that they also have a financial framework. We're dealing with the principles that have been governing that kind of imposition for the municipalities, and we think it's funded. With the extra 100 million. kr as we got in the agreement with the Christian People's Party, we believe it is a good basis for implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e828	There will be follow-up questions – first Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e834	If the standard is to work, you have to make sure it is financed. When the government presented their proposal for a norm in our company, they made it clear that they had not intended to pay for their own norm. The reasons included: the Minister of Knowledge now used, namely that this is calculated in exactly the same way as the Red-Green Government provided. This is a proven error, both if you look at the Øie Committee's investigation and if you look at the Report. Art. No. 24 for 2012–2013, as the Council of State pointed out, where it is finally black and white that proposals for appropriations will be promoted in the various proposals for the State budget. There have been protests both from municipalities and from private kindergartens about the lack of funding for the recruitment standard. The Christian People's Party got through 100 million. kr in the revised national budget. That's good. The working party believes it should be doubled. So the government is proposing exactly the same allocation for 2019 as in the autumn of 2018. After the revised national budget, the Christian People's Party said that they expected a quadrupling of money to the standard in 2019. Does the Minister of Knowledge feel that the government is delivering on that expectation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e841	The answer to that question is yes. We follow up on the agreements we have with the Christian People's Party. It was just supposed to be missing. The Christian People's Party has been a good partner for the government for five years, and we look forward to continued good non-socialist cooperation. But I think I have to ask the representative to go back and read that message a little bit more carefully, because it is a reality that we are following the same principles as both the Children's Court Committee and the Stoltenberg government provided for in 2013. Since 2013, there are also some things that have happened. One is that the staff in kindergartens has increased, the staff has improved in kindergartens. In addition, we have also provided equal treatment for private and municipal kindergartens. This means that we believe that the standard of manning is funded. We have now given the municipalities and owners a year to implement it and complete it, and with the agreement with the Christian People's Party we also take better care of the small kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e848	Martin Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e853	What's interesting is that when the Workers' Party and other parties said that there might be a need for a transitional arrangement until 2019, the government said no to that, but the government has actually postponed the introduction of the standard one year, from 1 August 2018 to 1 August 2019. One of the reasons for this is that they have seen that funding is a challenge both for private and municipal kindergartens. As regards the principles for the introduction of the norm, I note that the KS disagrees entirely with the Minister of Knowledge in this interpretation. This is also interesting when you include: looks at what the Christian People's Party pronounced in the spring; they expected a quadrupling and that there would also be funds in 2020, a total of between 600 and 700 million. kr, to the crew standard. Now when the state budget was presented, the Christian People's Party, like the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV, also said that the standard of manning was not sufficiently funded. I find it very difficult to see how the Minister of Knowledge can then justify following up on what was agreed in the revision in 2019, with exactly the same amount as in the revised national budget. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e860	Because it's in line with the deal. It is in line with the agreement we have reached with the Christian People's Party that we should allocate 100 million. kr for the period 2018-2020. Of course, we have also had a dialogue with the Christian People's Party on how to distribute this money. For 2018, there are 225 kindergartens that receive DKK 400000 in the earmarked grant above. It's a good follow-up to Storting's decision. But let me just say that the standard of manning is not suspended, it was implemented from the autumn of 2018, but the kindergarten owners have a year of implementation itself. I expect both municipal, private and ideals to follow up. So it is possible that we disagree with the KS, but I agree with the principles laid down by the Red-Green Government in 2012 and 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e869	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e883	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 8, from the representative Martha Tärud to the Minister for Industry, has been withdrawn. Question 9, from the representative Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen to the Minister for Climate and Environment, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e897	«A plurality of the Storting adopted at Innst. 51 S the following: «The government is asking the government to bring the Storting forward for a scheme to ensure students between 1 and 10. [[2017-2018]] Steps at least one hour of physical activity each day within the hours of the day.’ The decision came after a year’s fight and was a basis for action to reduce social health inequalities. The government wrote in the government budget that they would not follow up the decision. Why does the government not respect the will of the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e910	I don't think anyone in this room is opposed to physical activity in school, neither am I. Physical activity is good for health, and it offers good opportunities for both learning and mastering. I support the intention behind the decision: more physical activity for children and young people and, in particular, raising those children who are not physically active outside the school. The government is concerned with the physical health and physical activity of students at school. We are involved in the work of a new action plan for physical activity for which the Ministry of Health and Welfare is responsible. In a short time, we will receive the results of an experiment on physical activity in youth that we have initiated and funded with the Ministry of Health and Welfare. In the on-going vocational renewal, the physical exercise subject shall rotate towards more mobility activity, including: to ensure an inclusion perspective. The trade must motivate an active lifestyle and contribute to good health. In addition, we introduce a new, multidisciplinary theme, public health and lifelong learning, which will provide students with skills to promote good mental and physical health. Support resources for this task will be developed. As the representative points out, the Ministry of Knowledge writes in the budget proposal that we will not, however, recommend this specific decision. This is due, inter alia, to: the statement that it shall be ‘within the hours of the day’. An hour’s physical activity every day within today’s hours will require schools and teachers to engage in physical activity in math, Norwegian, arts and crafts hours or other hours – regardless of whether it promotes learning during that hour, regardless of whether the teacher has the competence to carry out the activity, and whether it can go beyond the individual student’s learning. All regulated time in school is for vocational training. These are classes for subjects that students are entitled to, and where the teachers, who know the students best, have the freedom to teach the way they think the students get the most learning and mastering. I think it would be wrong to control the teacher's choice of law or regulation method. My point is that if the Storting wants school hours for physical activity beyond what is already in the hour, it will take more time and resources for teachers. Then it either has to come with money for this, or the Storting has to say which hours they want to re-prioritize. It costs money to add hours at school, and Stortinget does not allow time or money to implement this measure. The school shall be a learning venue, both for professional and social learning. This is not a task that we can take lightly, and we need to respect that the students are entitled to every professional session that is introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e931	Elevar is also entitled to a school that takes care of physical and mental health. That's what's the starting point for this whole proposal, easy to give children equal rights to good health in the future, and here the school has a responsibility. It is also so that this proposal did not come out of the blue, it came out that many municipalities have already introduced this. The government itself reports that one is free today. There is nothing in the curriculum or competence requirements that prevents this today. So why doesn't it make it an offer for all the elephants when it has such an important public health foundation? In the context of our adoption of the option, the Right states that they could be on a proposal that said one hour on average. It could have got multiples, but then it was drawn. Why does the government not present a case for the Storting where one could also assess how this can be introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e938	There's a lot of good wishes about what's going on in school. I am now responsible for implementing a trade renewal, a major renewal of the content of the school. Then we want to give the teacher more room to be a teacher, more room for deep learning. What is contained in the proposal from the majority of the population is to control the teacher in detail and limit the teacher's freedom of method. I also have a different decision from the Stortinget, where the Stortinget is just asking the government to ensure the freedom of method for teachers, to ensure that teachers have sufficient room for action in the educational situation. I understand that the representative is very concerned about this decision, but I must also ensure that other decisions are taken. Here we are with two decisions that conflict with each other, and then it is my responsibility to explain to the Storting what challenges this will create, and also to point out opportunities for how we can deal with it. I think we need to gain experience from the pilot projects, and then we need to ensure that that experience spreads to other schools, so that there is more physical activity for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e945	It is no surprise that the government is opposed to this proposal, because the government parties voted against it. It was the majority in Stortinget that made a decision that the government should not introduce an hour of physical activity every day, but submit a case to the Stortinget about it. That we don't even get a case where these assessments could have come up, where one could have suggested different ways of introducing this, which doesn't go beyond the freedom of method for the teachers, is what we're responding to. It seemed that we have a government that wants to take rematches and does not comply with Storting's decision. It's reasonable especially. And once again, when it comes to the question I asked: One could have suggested adjustments to this which could also guarantee the freedom of method for the teachers. We've never said it's not going to cost money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e952	I have now submitted a briefing to the Stortinget on the budget for next year. There we explain the challenges of this proposal and how they can be addressed. We point out that we can adopt a regulation. But then the Storting must be aware that this would be contrary to other decisions taken in the Storting, where the freedom of method is emphasised. I have pointed out that the Storting can decide that there will be one extra hour of physical activity, but then the Storting must also be willing to spend billions on the table to fund an extra hour. I have also pointed out that we can gain experience from the trials that have been carried out, and help guide, advise schools and teachers on how to integrate more physical activity into school everyday life. In the budget proposal for next year, we have explained various ways in which this can be followed up, and we want a further dialogue with the majority of the population on how to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e962	‘Various funding systems for secondary schools lead to incentives in some counties to centralise schooling by, for example, leaving schools in the districts and bringing the students together in fewer and larger schools. In the new Viking region, there is reason to fear such centralization. Does the Council of State agree that this is a challenge in general, and in the Week in particular, and will he consider measures to ensure that students do not get an unreasonable long journey to school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e969	I would like to begin by pointing out that the county councils are responsible for higher education and for the dimensioning and development of the offer. In this work, the county councils must take into account both the wishes of the students and the choices they make and the needs of society for the competence of higher education. The county councils decide their own school structure, and it is up to the county councils themselves to decide what model they have for financing their own secondary schools. I would like to stress that the county income system facilitates that county municipalities have a decentralised school structure. One of the overall objectives of the income system for county municipalities is to balance financial assumptions in order to provide citizens with equivalent and good services throughout the country. This means that county councils are to be compensated for demographic differences, different geographical backgrounds and other more or less unaffectable factors that make the costs of providing services to residents vary between counties. The income system is therefore designed to fully compensate for variations in expenditure needs and to partially offset variations in tax revenue between county municipalities. In addition, a separate grant is granted to the three northernmost counties. I would also like to point out that in 2015 a new travel distance criterion was introduced into the sub-cost key for higher education in the income system. This shall compensate for cost disadvantages at long travel distances, more specifically the need for a more decentralised school structure. As of 2020, there will be eleven municipalities, including Oslo. I believe that larger and more functional county municipalities will strengthen local democracy and competence in problem solving. Although the reform will provide economies of scale and free resources, the county authorities must at the same time provide an offer tailored to the needs and wishes of the inhabitants. I have great confidence that the county councils are doing just this. I therefore believe that there is no reason to fear that the regional reform will lead to a centralisation of the school structure of the secondary schools in the counties. For the Viking region, which becomes the most populous region, one can imagine a reverse development. As the county council grows, it is possible to use the resources and competences of the school more flexibly. This may improve the conditions for developing a school structure tailored to the needs and needs of the population and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e984	I am very pleased with the answer from the Council of State, that he still has confidence in local self-government. On the Jeleya platform, the government says it will ‘introduce free schooling in all states’. It is easy to interpret it as meaning that the government wants to introduce a common funding system and common input model/input rules in all counties. But then I see that the Council of State can say that the government wants to introduce free schooling in all states?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e989	Now the representative jumps a little quickly to a conclusion that I cannot accept. We're set to follow up on the Jelaua statement, which also means that students will have more freedom to choose school. But how this is to be done must first be investigated, because we must ensure that we balance the different considerations. Students should be able to choose high school, but we also need to maintain a decentralised school structure, and I have great confidence that this will be done by the county councils. Then there's another perspective that I'm also concerned with, and that's the quality of high school. We see that there are big differences between states, especially with respect to drop-outs. I am convinced that larger municipalities – e.g. Troms and Finnmark, as well as others — will be able to gain more competence in raising the quality of high school and help more people complete their education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e996	I see that the Council of State does not equate introducing free school choice as an admission system with what we call unit price financing, as a resource access model for the states. SV is of the opinion – we interpret the Jeleya platform there – that there is a similarity between what we call the money following the student and free school choice. We have trouble seeing that these two can be completely disengaged. But there are, of course, good hybrid models. We have a proposal. Can the Council of State see that the counties retain their local autonomy, which he himself is talking about, but at the same time takes care of local needs, but that the Storting falls, perhaps in the form of a regulation, some general principles for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1001	I am concerned that the changes we are making should be knowledge-based. This means that before implementing changes, for example: It is also natural to look at different models, so that different considerations can be taken into account. I am concerned that we should give students a slightly larger choice in high school – many states have already done this. At the same time, we must take into account the need to ensure equivalent school provision and decentralised school provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1009	‘In the context of the treatment of Document 8:181 S by the Storting on the need for a KVU on the Oslo-Stockholm and Oslo-Gothenburg routes, the majority argued that it is important to clarify the continuation of the route from Halden towards Gothenburg, as well as a mapping of alternative funding of actions on the route. [[2017-2018]] What does the government do to follow this up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1016	We cooperate well with our Swedish colleague on cross-border traffic. We experience to a great extent that we have the same challenges. On the Norwegian side, we carry out a historic investment on the railways, and on the Swedish side, too, there are great ambitions. Oslo–Stockholm and Oslo–Gøteborg are important sections with great potential, at least when one looks ahead in time. The Directorate-General for Railways is working on a long-distance strategy that precisely looks at those lines. It's a big customer base if you can bring down your travel time. The challenge is that it costs a lot of money. For many decades, the railways have been down priorities, and we are now giving him a strong priority. We're doing a lot of big and heavy infrastructure investments, but we're starting from where the pressure is the largest, basically the Oslo area, and then we're gradually building on it. As a result, more and more people experience a better infrastructure over the coming years. The main measures to increase capacity and reduce travel time between Oslo and Gothenburg on the Norwegian side are part of the InterCity extension through Eastfold. The Folloban, planned to open in 2021, and Sandbukta-Moss-Sostad, which has a construction start next year, are important projects to move forward. That's why we're investing in the development of InterCity. Oslo–Stockholm has also been cleared several times. Recently, the Swedish Transport Agency carried out a «action selection study» for the Oslo–Stockholm section, with the participation of the Directorate of Railways. The distribution looks at the potential, but it also shows that it will require significant investment. The Ministry of Transport has also commissioned the Directorate of Railways to prepare a draft currency for the Kongswingerbahn, as we signaled in the NTP. We are also aware that Swedish companies are looking at the possibility to realize train trips between Oslo and Stockholm in less than three hours, with commercial means. It's an interesting concept, but it's not done before in the Nordic region. Distributions of transport investments are partly fresh, and I do not believe that there is any need or purpose in making greater use of measures now where the need and possible implementation are many years ahead. It's about the situation we're in, that by 2029 we're going to use considerable resources to meet the domestic challenges. When they're solved, or they're about to be solved, there's also a greater possibility to look at the way forward. But we have to keep pressing both the planning and the use of resources to build up InterCity now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1033	I hear the council says he has good communication with the Swedes. I would like to hear in which form you have this communication, and – specifically – how you intend to move forward with planning. Unfortunately, we are able to send heavy delegations to China to make agreements, but we cannot talk to the Swedes about trains. I would venture the claim that had there not been a national border between our two countries, these train offers would have been in place a long time ago. Now I am not going to advocate for a new union between Norway and Sweden, but it must then be possible to set up a cross-border train system between our two countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1040	I assume that when I answer the question, the representative will hear the answer. What I said was that we have had a detailed cooperation with the Swedish on this. Swedish and Norwegian authorities have cooperated, for example: with this ‘action selection study’, to which I referred, i.e. close cooperation between our two countries. It's an advantage to hear the answer when you've asked a question. So to the question of whether it would have looked completely different if we hadn't had a national border: when the Labour Party ran, we didn't get double-tracked railway to Moss once, so we were going to get it to Sweden, unfortunately, there's little to suggest. Now it's going to bet on the railway as never before. We start by building up the inner InterCity area, and we plan to build up the InterCity triangle – both for Porsgrund and Skien, for Lillehammer and Halden. But we don't come to Sweden until we've built up to Fredrikstad, so we have to take things in the right order – that's what I say. It requires priority, and that's what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1047	I note that the Council of State does not at all answer the original question, which was: What does the Council of State – what does the government – do with the concrete majority comment that is to clarify alternative financing options between Oslo and Gothenburg and also clarify where the line is going? The representative Jacobsen knows very well what has happened in this area, but there is still a truth that there are no systems to clarify our common border needs for trains. I might be able to help the Council of State by reminding that the government has previously said that you want a railway treatise that applies to the whole of the Nordic region. When's it coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1054	We have several times worked out how to achieve cross-border traffic between Norway and Sweden, last in 2016 through cooperation between Norway and Sweden. When I now say that the most important measure to get to such a railway, for example. Oslo – Gothenburg, is that we're actually going to build up double-track railways in Norway, it's pretty good to conclude that we're not answering the question and not following up on what's going on. For what is to be done is increased capacity in the infrastructure – that is what is to be done. That means that planning, development and better maintenance on Norwegian railways, and especially the priority that we now have at InterCity, is what's going on. There is no hokuspocus. We have to build up the railway at a rate far higher than that the Workers' Party has always built up the railway in when they have a seat in government. That's what we're doing, and that's what we're going to do in order for us to be able at a later stage to get a profitable cross-border traffic to Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1064	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘The head of Telenor’s coverage advises NRK Sogn and Fjordane on 18 October 2018 that people cannot rely on Telenor’s mobile network for electricity. What social responsibility do I have from the government that Telenor has for infrastructure that is important to people's lives and health in scattered regions, not collapsing in connection with future storms, rains, floods, wind and race?»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1073	Ekomnet is increasingly demanding values and is a fundamental input for activity in all social sectors. Losing access to mobile and other echo services is, of course, a requirement. At the same time, unfortunately, no guarantee can be given that, for example: mobile services should never fall out, but we can work to ensure that this does not happen often, and that the consequences of this become less possible. All echo operators, including Telenor, have an obligation to provide services with defensive security. In that context, there is no difference between Telenor and the other mobile owners. The requirement for defence security in the eco-nomy is a legal standard that will have to be assessed in line with developments in society. As time passes, it is natural for the Governing Boards to assess the level of defence security and whether more action is needed from network and service providers. Over several years, the government has increased budget resources for security and security in the ecosystem to reduce vulnerability and make service delivery more robust. An important element in it is the enhanced echo program. ‘Enhanced echomes’ shall ensure that mobile services operate in a limited coverage area of each municipality for at least three days in the event of a power failure. This is important for the local crisis management environment. Based on a risk assessment, municipalities are given the highest priority. To date, 35 municipalities have been granted such a solution, and around seven–eight municipalities will be strengthened next year. Mobile operators are now improving their back-up capacity at all mobile base stations in the country. In areas at risk, the base stations shall operate for at least four hours if the current is lost and the work shall be completed in 2019. Net owners will use more than 1.1 billion. kr to convert at all base stations in the country. There are several reasons for the collapse of the mobile network, which the representative has included. It is therefore important to look at health and to take action in both ecosystems and other areas to strengthen our overall preparedness. At the same time, it is not possible to fully secure itself against failure, nor in echoes. The government is busy continuing its efforts to reduce the vulnerability of the ecosystem and the ecosystem services, providing defensive security and high uptime.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1090	I thank you for the answer, which I think indicates that the government will take the challenges that lie here seriously. The background is that things change, the weather gets wilder and wetter, we get more wind, large amounts of precipitation, flooding and race, and that leads to great damage. When the power goes away – that's right, as the state council says – the mobile network also falls out, a lot of places after two to four hours. Two to four hours is not long. So the Council of State says that the government will 'estimate' what is defence security, and then the question is: Does the Council of State think that two to four hours, which is the situation today, is defensive security? And what time horizon does this government work after when it comes to all municipalities having base stations with three-day reserve capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1099	If we're to be honest – and we're supposed to be when we're in this house – it's about making priorities as well. Both we and those who provide the echo services have to do it. It means something how we actually sort this out. It's enough that if we get the back-up capacity at all base stations, it helps a lot, just over a shorter period, but it still strengthens the readiness significantly. At the same time, if you want to ensure the most basic values, you need to make sure that it is in smaller areas that it builds out capacity so that it has a longer conservation capacity there. I think I'm going to say that when we work on this for years to come, we need to make a continuous assessment of the time they want to ensure the basic and most important functions in each municipality, and how they want to increase the total capacity to deal with failures, for example. unreal or natural disasters.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1106	I'm aware that one has to give priority. I also appreciate the fact that the Council of State is honest, but I should like the Council of State to say a little more about it with two to four hours and the time perspective. Are we talking in five, ten, fifteen or twenty years? And then I can inform the Council of State – as a small paradox – that if one has a fire alarm system in a sheep cage, the requirement for backup capacity on the battery side is 24 hours. But one can experience the situation that one after four hours no longer has telephone coverage, so if the accident were to be out, one can't ring. This case is not about the specific case, which concerns people's lives and health. But there's a misunderstanding between this and the demands of society. I believe the telecommunications companies have a better financial backbone than, for example, Sheep nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1113	With the agricultural policy we've been pursuing in the last few years, I'm not sure about it, but we're going to have that discussion again. Similarly, I believe that when we increase the total battery capacity in all base stations, it helps something. But what we're saying now is that one of the areas at risk should increase to a minimum of four hours. It says something about a fundamental risk assessment and a desire to increase capacity there. So then there's no talk of two to four hours in those areas; then concrete risk assessments are made, and then one capacity increases there. And that's in this contemplation we're also going to find good solutions for the years to come. The representative can be absolutely sure that the government will follow this up in a way that helps to gradually escalate our overall preparedness, including in the echonet, as we work with emergency work in a very large number of other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1125	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation: ‘Since the plans for a new government quarter came, it has been desirable to reduce the building volume for, among others. to avoid the appearance of a raging wall against the Oslo East. Since I took this up in an interpellation of May 7, 2015, the government has repeated several times that it is open for continued use of R5 and possibly. R6 west of Akersgata, which houses several departments today. Nevertheless, this is not mentioned in the report of the State budget on a reduction in the volume of construction. Has the government taken a position on whether any departments will be in R5 in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1134	The Government stresses that new government quarter should be open, safe and green. It is important that the quarter be good both for the city and for those who are going to work there. In the light of the regulatory plan adopted, an architectural contest was held in which the proposal ‘Adapt’ was designated by the jury winning from the competition. In the jury's reasons, it is called, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Adapt’ corresponds convincingly to all criteria for assessment. The office buildings in Grubbegata and at Einar Gerhardsen Square are very well adapted and articulate to a varied and friendly street space. The volumes are also well scaled down against Møllergata and Youngstorget and preserve the cultural environment and squares. It is clear that all departments, except the Ministry of Defence, will be brought together in the new quarter. But it is now planned for 4,700 employees, significantly fewer than the 5,700 that were in the original plans. After many years of growth in the number of staff in the departments, we see that government’s policy on simplification and bureaucratisation is working. We don't really need the same number of jobs in the future. In the sketch project, the new buildings are also lower than the regulatory plan permits. The total volume thus becomes smaller than previously planned and thus also better adapted to the surrounding urban environment. The government will propose step by step deployment so that we can adapt the areas and volumes to actual needs. It provides additional possibilities for a reduction in volumes later. Apart from building D, which will be behind Møllergate 19, the other buildings to the east are planned in step 2 and step 3 in the expansion of the new government quarter. An important aspect of the development of the new government quarter has been to ensure better security than in the past. Therefore, according to the plan, R6 and R5 will be phased out as ministerial premises in the future, but R5 will, at that time, be used for support functions and possibly for other government functions for the departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1150	I thank you for your answer. Since I mentioned this in the summer of 2015, the question of R5 has been relevant. The then municipal minister sent a letter to Statsbyggen on 17 December 2015 asking for a reassessment of the use of R5 as part of the government quarter. We also had it up in the Storting during the budgetary procedure. I have asked about this several times later, and as late as the fall of 2017, I was told that with regard to the use of R5, it would be an assessment until the first half of 2018. When the results of the architectural competition came, the message was that you could scale down if you wanted to continue to leave some departments in the R5. So I had hoped that there was a more open attitude to be able to scale it down further using the R5.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1157	There's been very thorough assessments here. It's about security, it's about efficiency and interaction between ministries, and it's about urban environment considerations. The Prime Minister held a press conference with the local and environmental minister, the finance minister and me a few weeks ago, where she presented the scaled-down project. It's downgraded in the number of employees, in the volume of construction, and we're going to do a step-by-step expansion because this is a very large and very expensive project. The decision to group everyone in the quarter is firm, but we also need to recognise that this will take time, so that R5 – for quite many years yet – will be used for government activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1162	I would also like to thank you for that answer. It is also important to consider the use of resources by government and central government, and the last buildings, the last parts of R5 and R6, were well completed in 2013 – or around that time. It's spent billions. It is clear that it is not very good to phase them out in as short a time perspective as it is now. In the case of interaction, I believe that the distance from e.g. the high block to the R5 is very short. It's hard to see that it can be an argument, in terms of having a dense environment. When you look at the architectural drawings and how it will get out of Youngstorget and from Oslo east now, I believe that there is still an unfortunate massive wall in the city – and an too high wall. What I want to ask the Council of State is: when it is then in step 2 and step 3, this with the final building heights in the final implementation, could this be the subject of a process also in the future? It was in the autumn of 2019 that we were actually going to deal with this in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1173	Finally, it is the fall of 2019 that we are ready to present the project to the Stortinget, and where Stortinget will decide on the project as such. Then it's quality assured. In the case of the areas in R5, among other things, it is not that these will not be used. They will be used, we need them, for reasons of safety, efficiency and interaction. And by interaction, I don't think it's a long way from R5 to the high block, for example, but you'll get common areas, common canteens and common recipes, and on the second floor you'll get common reviews to each other, so you get a completely different degree of interaction than before. But the premises are going to be used for quite a number of years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1183	I would like to ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘When the Council of State notes in the budget that it is profitable for Color Line to continue as today, why will he continue to change the rules so that they can put about 700 Norwegian seafarers on land?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1190	I'm going to come back to a premise on the representative's question that I think is a little unpresist, but first let me just repeat the purpose of the rule change that has been notified by the government since 2015. It is to ensure predictable and internationally competitive conditions for international ferries flying the flag of Norway. This government has fully supplied maritime industry, we have supplied Norwegian seafarers, we spend more money than ever – from the state register – on employment and support employment of Norwegian seafarers, we have had an increase in research in the maritime sector, etc. etc. It has been important for the government to have good framework conditions in which Color Line – the only company with Norwegian flag foreign ferries – chooses to maintain its business in Norway. Of course, if the option is to move the business, or if there is a risk of doing so — that would mean about 2,400 jobs out of Norway — there is no doubt that it is better that we change our framework conditions, and then we have to do it with a long-term perspective. This was the recommendation made by the majority of the jury in 2014 and was followed up in 2015. Then 250 Norwegian jobs could be retained on these ships by flying the flag of Color Line from NOR to NIS. At the same time, Color Lines' other ships would remain in NOR. That change was not implemented at the same time as all the positive things in the Maritime Committee on which there was a broad consensus. The consequence of this is that today, Color Line receives significantly more in support than was the intention when the grant scheme for foreign ferries in NOR was strengthened in 2016. So to the premise for the question. The review we have done in the budget, does not decide whether it is profitable for Color Line to continue its business as today. It is a business economic assessment, and – as I have said several times – it is the company that does. What the review in the budget shows is that with today's grant scheme, i.e. a grant scheme that was not intended to give Color Line, it would be more profitable to hire Norwegian seafarers on foreign ferries in NOR than it would be to hire Danish seafarers on foreign ferries in DIS. But if you stop there, you forget an important part of the reasoning, because as we also show in the review of the budget paper, Color Line by registering the Kiel ferries in the DIS will also have the opportunity to hire foreign seafarers on the terms of the home country. It is this opportunity that we want to open up – also under the Norwegian flag – by allowing NIS registration.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1201	The Minister of Industry said that with today's support, it is profitable for Color Line to continue with Norwegian seafarers on board. But the assumption was not there. In the premise of the draft budget that the Minister of Industry himself has presented to the Storting, there is a premise that a next year will save 35 million. kr, provided that Color Line follows up putting Norwegian seafarers on land. Provided Color Line doesn't follow up on this, the Minister of Industry can get into a situation where he has to actively force Color Line to actually put Norwegian seafarers on land to get his budget to go in. Then my question is, to fulfil this, how will the Minister of Industry do such an exercise?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1206	Next to general rule changes etc. which affect enterprises and businesses in Norway, of course, it is not that the country can or does not want to force businesses to do things in a specific way. But we have a claim for responsible budgeting, and that means that the budgets are to reflect that department's opinion is the most reasonable assessments based on signals from the company at the moment the budget is made. That was also why we had to change this in our revised budget. It was not a political change on the part of the government. It was simply because our realistic assessment was that this would not have a budgetary impact in the current year. The budget was amended by Ergo. But Color Line has constantly signaled quite clearly that they want, if they get the flag to NIS, to replace some of the seafarers who work in ploughing. So that's good reason to think that's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1211	I note that realism lies in the fact that Norwegian seafarers are to be put ashore. This matter stirs up significant international reactions. At the forefront is the international transport association, which organises more than 20 million workers, and which despairs that the Norwegian government is now most likely to start a race at the bottom, resulting in the worst pay and working conditions in competition. Understand the one who can, with the Minister of Industry and the front budget, start such a race at the bottom. I understand very well the reactions, the despair and the sense of the brutal act this is against Norwegian seafarers. It is therefore appropriate to ask: When did the government aim to determine competition in Norwegian ferries through the worst possible pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1216	Firstly, it is quite understandable that it is extremely difficult for the seafarers who work in the field of pampering, restaurants, casinos, etc. for Color Line, which is at risk of losing your job. That's also why this is not a simple matter. It's a difficult thing. But to say that this is about Norwegian seafarers in general is going to be wrong, simply because the conditions for Norwegian seafarers with this government have been improved – we spend about 3 million. kr more on subsidy schemes for seafarers today compared to 2013. Seafarers’ organisations and maritime industries have been able to take advantage of a number of measures that have not been passed on to them by the previous red-green government. It must also be taken into account that it is not that if this change is not implemented, everything will remain just like today – just because Color Line has signaled that they might want to move all their ships over to DIS. They will also be able to move ships to DIS and hire staff on the terms of their home country, i.e. not to exchange Norwegian seafarers with Danish.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1226	I would like to ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘Recently, there have been revelations in the media that Bring Trucking, a wholly-timed subsidiary of Posten AS, has systematically underpaid drivers driving cabotage between Sweden and Norway. It is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries that has the ownership of the Post. As owner, the State should have a special responsibility for not undermining Norwegian pay and employment. To what extent has the pay and employment conditions in Bring Trucking been the subject of owner’s meetings between the Council of State and the Post?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1235	I'll say a thousand thanks for the question. I look seriously at the allegations of breaches of legislation – which have arisen in the media – both in terms of the role I have in the whole of my business life, the wide range of Norwegian private business, and in terms of being the Council of State responsible for managing the state's ownership, as in this case. Workers' rights in general and the Post subsidiary Bring Trucking in Slovakia have been the subject of ownership dialogue with the Post since the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries took over the company's ownership follow-up in 2017. It is worth noting that the Post disputed the allegations that there should have been a crime. In 2017, the Ministry received a statement on conditions related to Bringing Trucking and has since been updated on an external review initiated by the Post Norway of employment and wages and salaries in Bring Trucking. The Ministry has also been briefed on the company’s dialogue with the Slovak Labour Inspectorate. With regard to the recent weeks of looking up in the media about the pay and employment conditions of Bringing Trucking, I have agreed to an update in the form of a statement by the board of directors on the company's policies and procedures in this area and how the board is working to comply with them. In Report. St. 27 for 2013–2014, A diverse and valuable ownership – often called ownership notification – expresses a very clear expectation that companies with State ownership respect and contribute to a decent working life, where basic labour standards and rights are respected. This includes, of course, giving workers a living wage. The follow-up of these and other expectations takes the state into account in the dialogue with the company, as we have also done in this case. The entry for Norway shall be operated in accordance with commercial principles and the management and management of the company shall be responsible for ongoing business assessments and decisions. It also implies that it is the responsibility of the company to follow the relevant rules and standards relating to pay and employment. I just want to repeat in conclusion that the Post contests the allegations that have been made, but as I said, the department and I have agreed to receive another briefing from the company on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1254	I thank you for your answer. There are many people in this room and in the country's population who have concerns about working conditions in Bring and especially in Bring Trucking. Now it is not the Minister of Industry's portfolio how international transport is to be carried out, it is at the Minister of Transport's table, but some of the concerns are in his ownership of public owned companies. Thus, the task of this Council of State is to assess the establishment of state companies in low-cost countries, where the only purpose is to employ low-paid workers in international transport. That's why I wonder if the Council of State has had any thoughts about this, either in the situation we're in now, or in previous times.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1259	It is not my task or the task of the Ministry to assess whether state companies or companies with total or partial State ownership should establish themselves in other countries, including low-cost countries. It's up to the board to evaluate. The Board of Directors is responsible for the day-to-day operation – not just the day-to-day operations, but is responsible for the company. We have said, and the Storting has agreed, that the Post will operate according to business criteria. So that's not my responsibility. But besides that, the state as a large and important owner – the only owner in the Post – also has some expectations. This means that we expect state companies to be clear and clear in terms of environmental standards, sustainability and diversity. We expect workers' rights and working standards to be respected. It's our job to follow it up through the ownership dialogues with the companies. We've also done that in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1264	This representative would like to thank you for your answer. This representative is in contact with several small and large transport and freight forwarding companies around the country. And it is no new information that the Post contests the information that has been provided, they have done so both in the media and also in contact with the transport fraction of the Workers' Party. But as I said, this representative has contact with several transport and freight forwarding companies, and in conversation with a managing director of a larger company it was said that their company has chosen not to use cabotage, as the legislation is so complicated that they would almost in any case break the law. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State how, through his ownership management and the Posten's dispute over a breach, he can be so sure that the Post stays within the framework of the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1269	Our job as owner is constantly to ask, have dialogue with the companies, and refer to what both the government and the Storting have adopted in the ownership notification and ownership principles. There's a balance sheet, because on the one hand it means that we're neither going nor going to be able to go in and take the board's responsibility. It would also be against the adopted policy of Storting and against the principles of Norwegian law. At the same time, however, it means that the Ministry as its owner should have an active attitude and role in dialogue, with the constraints in it. If the Minister of Transport had stood here, very much could be said about the government's policy on international transport competition and also about the restrictions and wishes of the government that we should not undermine the conditions of the Norwegian transport industry, for example. In terms of cabotage driving and so on, but it is the Minister of Transport who has to answer for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1285	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1299	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1308	‘The day’s climate debate does not distinguish CO 2 emissions from fossil and renewable carbon. In the case of livestock, there is no distinction as to whether the animal food can be eaten by humans directly or whether the animals eat grass. Could the Council of State define the content of the statement ‘Agriculture must reduce emissions per year? unit of production’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1318	Norwegian agriculture faces both opportunities and challenges as a result of climate change. I would like to stress that the main task of agriculture is to produce food. In the interests of preparedness, resource utilisation, value creation, employment and climate, it is important that Norwegian agriculture produces the feed and food that it is able to produce in Norway and to an extent that can meet domestic demand and export. At the same time, it is an objective that we should have a sustainable agriculture with lower greenhouse gas emissions. This includes, inter alia: agriculture needs to reduce emissions per unit of output, in addition to increasing CO 2 capture and adapting production to a changing climate. It is more demanding to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from productions based on biological processes, and the effects of these measures are more uncertain than they are for fossil productions. The maximum agricultural emissions are generated by biological and chemical processes in livestock, manure and soil. Methane and liquefaction are mainly included in the accounts of the agricultural sector. In addition to emissions recorded in the agricultural sector, fossil CO 2 emissions from the combustion of oil for heating and diesel to the agricultural machinery are accounted for in the construction and transport sectors respectively. In order to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, agriculture is mainly driven by two main tracks. One can either reduce production volumes or improve production methods to reduce emissions from a production that is best suited to demand, i.e. to reduce emissions per unit of output. The development of new research, technology and knowledge is one of the main measures to reduce climate pressures and adapt agriculture to a changing climate. According to Geno, breeding has contributed to a 10 pst reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from dairy cows. per unit of production from 1980 until today. Norwegian agriculture will produce enough, varied and safe, good-quality food on the basis of which it is produced in Norway. The government therefore stimulates agriculture to adapt food production so that it produces the products that consumers are constantly in demand, while at the same time achieving its climate obligations. The government believes that agricultural policy needs to be gradually shifted in a more climate-friendly direction in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the agricultural sector and thus contribute to the achievement of Norwegian emission obligations. I am therefore very pleased that the agricultural organisations have agreed to engage in dialogue with the government on a mutual agreement that is scheduled to be completed in the spring of 2019. Agriculture will have a high degree of flexibility in the nature of the measures to be implemented. If we get new knowledge during the period, of course it should also count. In the year’s agricultural settlement, climate and environmental efforts were strengthened, including: strengthening the funds for research, development and building skills related to agricultural climate challenges and adaptation, the development of climate-friendly technologies and the reduction of emissions. This is a long-term work that becomes an important priority for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1343	The social mission of agriculture is maritime supply. The Council of State says that it is increasing CO 2 — fully agreeing, that is photosynthesis — but the Council of State does not answer the question, by not responding to, for example, what the unit is. If we take it a little bit thoroughly: agriculture is the use of soil. It is the basis for the production of plants. Plants are one unit. Its more fertile soil is, the more positive it is for greenhouse gas emissions. The better we dig to not get potsick soil, the better we lime to not get acidic soil, the better we take care of the soil structure so we don't get packed up so that the plants don't come down, the better it is for the climate gas situation. My question is: will the government, for example, re-dispose funds to ditching in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from plant production?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1355	I didn't quite finish my answer, so I'm going to finish: there's no doubt that good agronomy is also good climate work, and furthermore, good animal welfare and high skills of the farmer are incredibly important. I want to say that there is a lot going on in agriculture. Precision farming is carried out with advanced technologies, which are important, where treatment of soil and crops is tailored and greenhouse gases are reduced by the way they work. I was in More and Romesdal and visited the farmer Finn Roger Trodal, who has set up a solar panel on his forehead just to reduce emissions and perhaps to get some money out of thinking a little bit different and thinking again. So there's an incredible amount of exciting happening in this area that will help to ensure that agriculture is also involved and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1364	Sorry – completed articles are probably good, but the most important thing is to answer the questions. The Council of State has not answered the issue of the unit and not the question of whether it is important to redispatch funds for ditching so as to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, while strengthening preparedness. I have only one question: the greenhouse gas accounts are so designed that the larger the agricultural area that grows again, where food is not produced, the better it is for climate accounting – does the Council agree with such an account?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1371	I record that the representative Lundtigen is not necessarily satisfied with the answers, but I am trying to answer them. I'm actually trying to answer that there's a lot about technology, and a lot about research now, which will help reduce emissions, and you'll be able to have more production. And I referred to Geno, with breeding research, where they have taken action that has contributed to the fact that greenhouse gas emissions have actually fallen. I referred to precision farming, which also contributes to reducing emissions. And now there's a dialogue with the agricultural organisations to see how we, the state together with the organisations, are going to make an agreement where both parties are going to commit themselves to being involved and contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. But, of course, we're still going to make sure to produce food in Norway, all over the country. That's what the government wants to do – and I'm glad we're going to keep doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1376	The ordinary Questionnaire is thus terminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-24.ana.ud352e1390	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
