ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e74	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the West-Agder counties: Mathias Bernander For Akershus County: Anne Kristine Linnestad and Kjartan Berland For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Anders R iise For Telemark County: Emilie Schäffer To inform the representatives, the President will state that, in the Parliament's adopted agenda for the next week, Friday, 8 June, the plenary session will be open.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e113	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e122	First, I would like to thank Mr SV, who has promoted the proposal. The proposal has not produced a major debate in the Committee, and most in the Committee – with the exception of SV – agree that the proposal is pre-empting new broadcasting laws. The Ministry of Culture has received two request decisions with which to work. It is to limit the mandate of the Broadcasting Council and to propose amendments to the appointment of members to the Broadcasting Council. They have also received a request decision to investigate alternative models of public access to justice and contact with the NRK. At the hearing of the Committee there were differences of opinion. I might point out that the Norwegian Journalist team was very concerned about winding up the council. At the same time, a government-funded public broadcaster also has a mission to receive enquiries from the audience, something that goes beyond what can be called the editor's poster. We understand that when Stortinget is going to decide on a new law, we get a thorough review of how the Broadcasting Council is to be organised. We've got a whole new digital world. In the past, letters would like to come to the council, so we've switched to e-mail, and now many opinions that might have gone to the council are coming up with social media. There's something about having a council and an organization of councils that embraces this digital new world we live in. We see the concerns that SV points out, and we are concerned about the editorial freedom of the Broadcasting Council. Media owners shall not interfere, either in daily journalistic elections or in programme areas. But the NRK is primarily for the licensees, they are in a different situation than the other media and have a special position and a social mission, and then we need a complaint body that has legitimacy in the population. As I said, digital everyday life means new channels for the audience, and we have to find out more about this. That is why we are not currently joining the proposal that SV comes with here, but are awaiting the Ministry's investigation, which will come to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e135	The strong and important role of the NRK as an actor in securing democratic, social and cultural needs in Norway is undisputable. The size has said that the NRK should be editorially independent and convey a balanced news, cultural and entertainment offer. Then we also have to act afterwards to ensure that the principles we have established, among other things. in the NRK poster, also in the future. If we can do that, we'll help ensure the legitimacy and trust of the NRK out there among people. It is also nice to be able to read a number of user surveys that show that the public in general has great confidence in the NRC and that the editorial assessments they take are balanced and in line with good presseetic principles — although unfortunately some NRC representatives are trying to spread a different perception. As early as 2016, an overall big committee asked the government to do something about the issues raised by the SV’s representative proposal, namely to ensure the editorial independence of the NRK’s position, but also to ensure that the audience got its opinion on the content. The government soon spent three years working on that. At least the Labour Party expects the bill notified to the Stortinget in June to at least endorse the request decisions from then on. The Labour Party agrees with the government parties in this matter. The Workers' Party should have been included in the majority opinion in the vote, but in the event of an incursion it has not been included. We expect the June proposition to take into account how to facilitate a continuous debate on the role and decisions of a public broadcaster, which also fully safeguards editorial freedom. This must be the NRK itself to the seventh and final design, but in the first instance the signal from the owner must be clear. We believe that the Storting has straightened out the direction for in a previous round, and we look forward to the proposition, which is announced to come immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e146	Today, we're probably dealing with a matter where the content is already on the way from the government. I choose to believe that the two proposers are enthusiastic and have difficulty staying as long as you should. The matter points directly to the core of a rather interesting problem. The NRK manages very large resources and has significant interests on behalf of the community. The NRK is our joint broadcaster. They're getting over 5.5 billion. NOK in licence fees and almost SEK 0.5 billion. kr in other income. That's why the NRK stands in a unique position in our society, with safe incomes, an incredibly large organization and a social mission anchored in the Stortinget. With such a background, it's no wonder that people's access to reasoning on editorial content has to be taken seriously. If there is reason to complain about something that has been sent, or about something that has not been sent, it must be possible to do so in processes that take sufficient account of the Community's interests. So far, we have had the Broadcasting Board to fill a large part of these functions, but today more and more questions are actually asking about the Broadcasting Board, as it is organised and functioning, the right model for the future. For many years the Progress Party has believed that the NRK is far too small to reflect the political and cultural diversity of the country. With the digital media revolution we are facing today, it becomes increasingly clear that the debate on the role of the NRC needs to be seen in a wider context, one must realize that it may be reasonable with forums other than the Broadcasting Council. We are concerned that in the future there will be good opportunities to correct the editorial content of the NRC, but it is also important to be concerned that that correction must be independent of the NRC. Obviously, they are not the proposers. They propose that the NRK be required to secure a body of appeal. Talk about letting the goat take care of the oat sack. The proposers therefore stumble into a basic premise as to how a system should and must work. It clearly shows that they have hastened, and it also shows that the proceedings should be conducted in a safe, sound and orderly manner. I do not ignore the fact that the proposers and we can reach a good agreement when the matter comes from the government to consideration in this room. We all agree that the NRK must tolerate being held in its ears a little – even by some outside its own walls.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e161	The Broadcasting Board is a little above the average interesting theme for me. As a NRK employee, I've once had a lot of resentment over knowledgeless statements and strange attitudes from that edge, but I've also agreed several times with my heart. And as a politician, I am extremely happy that the Norwegian population, the licensees, with the Broadcasting Council, has a way to get involved with the content of the NRK. But I'm pretty sure we can organise that intervention in a more appropriate way than we do now, so even if we don't adopt the SV's proposal today, that doesn't mean that the Broadcasting Council is freed. The centre party therefore shares SV’s concerns and believes that there is a need to assess the functioning of the Council and how it operates. And we're not alone. We in this Chamber have also discussed the role of the Council of Circuits in recent years, and three years ago, as was pointed out here, we had a discussion in which, in a request decision, we asked the Government to propose delimitation of the Council's mandate and amendments to the appointment of members of the Council. I note that in its assessment of the proposal for a representative we are examining, the Ministry answers that there has been a general consultation in January 2018 on changes to the Broadcasting Act, and that it also includes the request decisions on the Broadcasting Council and the right to apply to the public. The Ministry further answers that the legislative proposal will be presented in June 2018 with proposals for amendments to the rules applicable to the Broadcasting Council, as well as assessments of alternatives to the Broadcasting Council. In view of this, the Centre Party has at this stage chosen not to support the SV proposal because we believe it is appropriate to await the proposition. However, I note that the Editorial Association writes in its consultation note to the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture that they are disappointed that the Ministry of the Consultation Paper on amendments to the Broadcasting Act proposes to continue the system as it stands and that no changes to the mandate area have been proposed. I have to say that I too feel a little irritable about not having worked out a little better ways to maintain the credibility of the council, which I believe has been shaken by day – such as. that the Council is to go into the independent journalism of the NRK to a lesser extent than now, or that the role of the Council in relation to the Technical Committee of the Press becomes clearer. The appointment of members of the Council has also been problematic by several. In its note of consultation, the Ministry has proposed minor adjustments to the appointment of members. It is proposed that ten members be appointed by Stortinget and four by the government. I am not quite sure whether there are enough adjustments, at least not with regard to ensuring more skill and less political impact, and with that also more credibility for the Council. The correct development of NRK as an institution and content provider is incredibly important for the centre batch. Therefore, it is also very important for me and the Center Party to follow this closely when the announced proposition comes, so that the request decision from Innst. 178 S for 2015-2016, proposing the delimitation of the Council’s mandate and presenting an amendment to the appointment of members, is being properly followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e176	I want to start by linking some comments to the previous posts. First of all, I would like to point out that the rhetoric and choice of words in the post held a little earlier by the representative Hemdal shows just why we cannot have a politically appointed broadcasting council in this country. Then I fully agree with the representative Sem-Jacobsen in the criticism of the ministry's hearing response, and there is also some of the background that we have chosen to promote this proposal for a representative, despite the upcoming proposition. The NRK is one of the best things we have – a public broadcaster funded by the community that delivers on an important societal mission and delivers good quality in journalism and drama production, to mention something. In meeting the globalised media world, with major transnational actors challenging Norwegian journalism and Norwegian quality content, a strong NRK with legitimacy in the population is crucial. The NRK is Norway's spearhead in the competition against Netflix and Google, to the delight of the Norwegian people. The price we pay for this is a spice layer that everyone has to be in. I believe that is a price well worth paying. But because the NRK is a fissure layer provided by the community, the legitimacy of the NRK in the population is so crucial. There can be no doubt about the editorial independence of the NRK – a fundamental principle of any editorial, the principle on which freedom of the press is based. But this principle is unfortunately broken by NRK. The question of legitimacy is there. Back in 1933, Stortinget decided to establish Norwegian National Broadcasting, and that same year the Swedish National Programme Council was appointed, with 15 members. Quite a lot has happened to Norwegian media reality since then. In 1990, the government cancelled a new nationwide advertising-funded TV channel, and TV 2 aired for the first time in 1992. During the 1990s, the NRK became a limited liability company, and the interest in the Broadcasting Board was decreasing. In recent years, however, the Council has seen an explosion of complaints, after several groups have run coordinated campaigns. The Council has sometimes had problems dealing with the amount of enquiries. In other words, both the NRK, the Council's function and the general media image have evolved very much since the establishment of the Council in 1933. Nevertheless, the Council, as an editorial guardian board of the past, is a council that all agree that it has delivered opinions that go straight into the editorial freedom of the NRC. The Norwegian Editorial Association says it so precisely in its hearing response: ‘In our opinion, the Council is in breach of the principles of the Editorial plaque and the Media Editorial Freedom Act, provided that the owners are not to interfere with the editorial's free judgements and the editor's sovereigns are entitled to edit their medium. In no other larger, serious and established media houses, it would be accepted that government and magnificence should appoint an editorial board to deal with complaints from the public and evaluate free journalism.» This is a serious criticism of a large media house such as the NRK, which has an important mandate as a public broadcaster for the whole population. Earlier this year, the government chose to appoint a recently resigned State Secretary at the Prime Minister's office as President-in-Office of the Council, stressing that there is a close political link with the Council of Circuits. It seems very unfortunate. Therefore, SV believes it is time to defend the legitimacy of the NRK in the population, a defence of editorial freedom. SV has promoted this proposal to give the government a clear order into the new broadcasting law to come, in order to get a proper process. We'll give the government the task of finding an alternative appeal board for the audience and attach it to the NRK poster. Just because we, the community, are funding the NRK, there must also be an open dialogue and an opportunity to say from. But there can no longer be a political appointed guardian board from 1933. That is why it is time to put down the Broadcasting Council and set up a new complaint body in the NRC, without political ties. With that, I take up the SV's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e209	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e214	Over the years, the NRK has played an important role for the Norwegian public as a public informer, with a broad and representative impact field. We in the Left want to preserve the NRK as a strong, advertising-free public broadcaster who in a good way communicates culture and knowledge to everyone. Then it's true, as the representative of the Supreme Court says, that media everyday life has changed extremely quickly over the last few years. Therefore, we also agree that changes in the NRK have to be looked at dry. Examples of changes include: that, in some situations, the Broadcasting Board has been very overseen by cases, and that the license is still linked to TV sets in the thousands of homes, while we see that more and more streams of NRK and other online news and entertainment sources. So we have to look at how both the NRK and the Broadcasting Council are organized. For the Left, it is important to ensure that the NRC is independent and able to carry out its important societal mission. But in order to maintain the good upswing of the NRK today in the Norwegian population, it is incredibly important that we have a form of independent complaint body, where citizens can be told their opinion on what the NRK produces and shows. Therefore, the left considers it useful to include this in the assessment when drawing up the notified proposal. That's the way it's going to be. As several have pointed out earlier in the debate, in the course of the previous call for proposals, two decision-making decisions were adopted, both to ‘propose the delimitation of the mandate of the Broadcasting Council, and to change the appointment of members of the Broadcasting Council’, and to ‘investigate alternative models to ensure public access to justice and contact with the NRK’. But there is something special about the proposal being put forward at this stage, when we know that legislative proposals on amendments to the broadcasting law will soon be presented in the Stortinget. In January, as the Ministry is well-known, a proposal for amendments to the Broadcasting Act was sent out at the general hearing. The left believes that we should have a clean process and allow the relevant authorities to express themselves before the Stortinget concludes in the case. In addition, the proposers wish to close the District Programme Councils and the Sámi Programme Council. We in the Left are not totally opposed to the intention of that proposal, but such changes should be subject to a thorough process, including a consultation, before concluding – i.e. not just adopt closure without knowing the consequences of that proposal. The proposers promote some important elements that I and the Left believe need to be included in the assessment when a new proposition comes to Stortinget. At the same time, it is important to follow the formal processes and not to create precedents for concluding cases before the parties concerned have been informed. The left is open to do something with the Broadcasting Board as it is today, and I look forward to a thorough treatment and a good debate when the proposition comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e231	I am pleased with this debate, because it makes it easier for the government to know where the Storting has its position on another important matter. But it's a little special that you make a proposal to conclude with something just before the government comes up with a case, as we have announced. We had a big discussion in Stortinget about the public broadcasting role in the future, and then there was a clear conclusion and a request from Stortinget to come back to different models for a new complaint body or other ways to organise it. It was sent to the hearing, and just before it is concluded, a proposal for a conclusion should be made in the Chamber. It is a new form of procedure, and I am very pleased with the clear message from the storeroom that you want the formal and proper procedure. We received a request decision on different models, and a hearing note was sent to the hearing before I joined the Council of State. I'll bring with me all the posts that are held in the hall now, and also bring those ideas to the square in the treatment. I agree with the opinion of the proposers – that the Editorial plaque and the freedom of the media are also important in the NRC, and that sometimes there has been a mix between the role of the PFU and the role of the Broadcasting Council. It is important not to mix the two roles, because PFU has a completely different role in Presse-Norway than that of the Broadcasting Council. And we're still going to have both the freedom of the press and the position of the editor in the management of this in the future. The NRK receives large amounts of financial support from the community through the broadcasting model. It's a commitment. It commits so much that in addition to what the press has done in the Be careful poster, we have created our own NRK poster with our own goals for what the NRK is going to achieve in terms of community goals in what it is in being a public broadcaster today. This means that the Broadcasting Council should not be an editorial board, but a valve for citizens of a society for objections they want to address around the coverage of news by a public broadcaster. We aim to be able to present this bill before the summer, and hope that we will be able to take along the signals we receive during this debate, and that we will be able to ensure both editorial freedom, the role of the PFU and the editorial record, and that the citizens of the country will have to be allowed to come up with their objections and get proper answers to them when there is a generalcaster who receives so much financial support and who also has the major general objectives of a public broadcaster. It must be noted, then, that the age profile of those who complain is not good for a public broadcaster who is going to evolve to be also the generalcasts of the younger generations. There are very few fewer than 30 years who provide complaints to the Broadcasting Board. It is also worth noting that some issues are almost exposed to campaigns with complaints to the Broadcasting Council, while issues related to the coverage and profile of NRK’s public space programmes, which are debated in other media and also in social media, never reach the Broadcasting Council because formal complaints are not provided. We will take with us the signals that have come from this debate, and try to present a case that responds to the request decisions that the Stortinget has made in the past. I also believe that we should be able to balance the special role of a public broadcaster and ensure that freedom of the press is strong in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e248	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e254	I appreciate the Minister's approach to how we're going to work out a better and more appropriate broadcasting council, and I'm looking forward to the discussion when the proposition comes. Several models have been requested. I hope that is part of what we are going to discuss – not just one, but several models – and that we are doing a thorough job. With the risk of being a little too eager to make this room a workshop, I would say that in the case of the District Programme Councils, they have many opinions about the political, also about the organisation and the kind of things that they are not allowed to discuss. But one ends up discussing small details in the journalism of the NRK in these advices. I wonder, can it be a way to make the roles clearer by actually making the advice even more political?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e261	We're going to take with us that you also want more models. The representative makes a very good point, because the debate has been very much about just the Central Broadcasting Council. But we also have a decentralised broadcasting council model that is not subject to debate or is actually affected by this proposal. We must also take this into account when looking at how to safeguard citizens' opportunities to participate and develop the NRC in the future. I do not have an answer to this yet, but it is clearly a very important aspect that has not been discussed, nor is it discussed in the proposal we have up here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e266	I would like to point out again briefly why we have been promoting this proposal for a representative right now. It is precisely that the investigation of alternative complaint bodies is about. 33 lines, and that the intention of this proposal we are discussing today, is included in the draft consultation presented by the Ministry. I'd like to ask the Council of State if she agrees with the principle here. Does the Council of State consider it to be fundamentally worrying that the Board of Governors of the NRK's editorial elections, that this is a violation of the principle that co-owners should not interfere in daily journalistic elections and priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e273	I believe there have been challenges related to what the Broadcasting Board has had opinions on. But I also believe – and am a little surprised that SV does not mean it – that the NRK has a special position and cannot be compared to Schibsted and the other big owners, because this is our joint ownership. And we have expectations of NRK as public broadcasters that are different than what we expect from commercial media acting on the other surfaces. There are other expectations. I believe it is perfectly right that SV has promoted the proposal, but I also hope to have such an open tone as the Council of State that there is no need to make proposals in order to influence consultation processes, that it is possible to influence consultation processes by asking for meetings, clicking into chronicles or otherwise influencing the public debate. I think it's very good to get this debate at this point in time. It's very useful for us in the government to hear where the various parties sit in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e280	SV is an avid opposition party, so we're using all the tools we have. I fully agree with the Council of State that the NRC is different, that there is a need to have a complaint body in the NRC that can have an open dialogue with citizens – with those who actually fund the state channel. We have also included that in our proposal to be stated in the NRK poster. It is gratifying to hear that the Council of State agrees with the principle here, but if the Council of State agrees in principle that the Council of Broadcasting violates the principle of editorial freedom, will she be in charge of the same principle when the Storting is going to deal with a new broadcasting law?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e287	I have asked for a few more weeks to work with the hearing replies we have received. I will also agree with the rapporteurs that there are quite unambiguous consultation responses we have received in this area, especially with regard to professional feedback. We have to take that on board when we have to conclude, but it has to wait a few weeks longer – until we bring the matter to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e292	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e299	Norwegian National Broadcasting is a social contract between Stortinget and the public. The legitimacy of the institution rests on a foundation that is different from that of other Norwegian media. The difference is that the NRK exists based on a majority in this hall. A substantial part of such a contract, between the manufacturer and the consumer, is the safeguarding of the interests of consumers. Each of the representatives here has an obligation to make sure that the audience gets what the Storting has given money to. It may be known now that the Left is a party which does not necessarily have it in cancelling concluded contracts – without aiming at the consequences and costs it may have. The Broadcasting Board is the licensing representative organisation. It is hardly perfect in its form, but the debates that often express in an amazing way a media-critical diversity, without uniformity and political correctness. The importance of the Council rests, not on formal influence, but on the very foundation of our democracy – the exchange of free words. Had the Broadcasting Council had a decision-making authority, I would have voted in favour – in line with the Editorial plaque – of resolving it in an hour, but such a decision-making authority has not advised. There is enough ‘longer future-oriented models to ensure public access to justice and contact in this digital age’, as the Minister of Culture has expressed it, but the institution has shown a striking capacity to survive at a time when we are gradually friends to brush away the lack of formation and meaningful statements as if there were flash on the shoulders. It has been said that in Norway we have more media criticism per square mile than in any other country. I don't know if that's right, but I know that we don't need less of it, especially in a time when source criticism and information guidance are becoming increasingly important. I have never understood why the Editorial Association is putting so much energy into putting down the Broadcasting Board. It is often pointed out that since the NRK became part of the press's self-justice apparatus, i.e. PFU, the Council has played its part. This must be due to a misunderstanding – there is almost no overlap between the tasks of the PFU and the Broadcasting Council. The complaints in PFU are processed on the basis of the Værvarsom-plakat, they are assessed on the basis of an ethical standard. Every time PFU starts discussing the difference between good and bad journalism, the sample is reminded that there is no taste organ, as it says. That's right. Now, however, the Broadcasting Council is just such a taste organ. We need that. I think we should allow ourselves an institution that from a consumer perspective allows itself to express what tastes good and less well in Norwegian publicly funded journalism. Therefore, I think it is a bad idea to drop the Broadcasting Board without having an established alternative on the table, as SV suggests. Throwing the child out with the washing water is not good left policy, but we can also discuss the quality of the water we bathe the children in. Water quality is something we like to discuss in the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e314	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e330	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e339	Let me begin by thanking the Committee for a long and good cooperation in this matter. It is that when people experience that there is no correspondence between health and the laws and regulations we make, protests often come to us who are elected, and we are encouraged to do something about it. I also feel that this is a bit of a background for the Central Party to make this proposal. As case spokesman, I have had a goal of resolving it in the best possible way, without weakening the concern for nature, and I am pleased that a quite wide majority in the Committee have gathered on it. The general ban on outdoor motor travel has broad political support. I'm glad. We have dealt with this matter from this point of view and the question of the practice of exemptions may be too strict given that after this promise was signed, stationary and less impurising or non-polluting electric motors came onto the market. The Directorate-General for the Environment has been commissioned by the Ministry of Climate and Environment to provide a technical assessment of whether motor vehicle traffic legislation should open up to the use of electric motors on water of less than 2 km 2 and, where appropriate, how such a change should be designed. The Committee's proceedings have been postponed several times, because we wanted this as a basis for decision when this matter is going into the main hall today. The Directorate-General for the Environment's professional assessment provides an important reminder that we do not need to create a precedent that opens up to a general release, but that holds back the principles on which we build in the law and for which there is broad support in the landfill. Nevertheless, a reminder that motorcyclists have opened Section 5(b) in order for the local authority to grant the right to ‘use motor vehicles on lakes of less than 2 square kilometres when there are specific reasons which in the event must be specified in the regulation’. However, the opening in circular T-1/96 is limited to special cases, cf. the expression ‘special reasons’ and the limited cases in question are, for example: transportation to hotels, tourist destinations and cabins where one is dependent on a boat to arrive at normal means of communication. The majority in the committee have experienced it so that this might be in the most urgent form. The Directorate-General for the Environment should also point to something similar in its explanatory statement. So it has come in some good recordings, among other things. that one must take special care of wild and bird biotopes and that one must not open up to a general opening of smaller water, so that one could perceive that the Centre's proposal is being made. For this reason, a proposal has been put together where a requested government has been softening, and it is made in a regulatory form, which is limited by the fact that it should not be a general opening, but that it should take special care of it. I would recommend the recommendation from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e361	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good and informative statement. This is an example of technology being able to obtain the law quickly. This is not a major and societal issue, such as bitcoin, future media or autonomous vehicles, but one that can be important for some, namely whether you can use electric motors on water below 2 km 2. There has been a relatively large political consensus that conventional motors should not be used on small water, and that is because it may be a nuisance for people with noise, etc., but not least for the environment, animal life, etc. due to noise. An electric motor, on the other hand, makes less noise and shyness, and there is reason to believe that it will become more and more common with an electric motor, at least if we open up for this from the Stortinget side today. Last week we had a debate about snowmobiles. Maybe in the future we can deal with a matter of using snowmobiles, where we can all agree. I must also say, in the end, that I think it is strange that SV and the Greens will equate an electrically driven zero-emission boat with an old diesel-powered boat that pollutes and goes into the climate. I've always thought that it's the noisy engine that's the problem, but when it gets fixed, and you can make it silent, it's not good enough. Is that the propeller these parts are against? Are you against such pedal boats as you look at the hotels in the South, where you also have propellers? No, let's not make everything bad and difficult. Let's test this out and see how it works, and then we can gain experience and maybe allow more use if we see that those experiences are good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e379	Thanks to the rapporteur for good cooperation and work – and a good report. There are limits to what we as big-scale politicians should rule in detail, and this matter lies in such a zone. This matter came to the table as a result of the fact that the County of South Trondelag had exceeded a local decision, made on the basis of local assessments, with benefits and disadvantages. According to the County Council, the decision of the municipality was not well reasoned. The legal provisions state that the use of an engine on lakes of less than 2 km 2 shall, however, be permitted where there are specific reasons. The necessary transportation to hotels, cabins and tourist attractions that are located in such a way that they are dependent on a boat is referred to as ‘special reasons’. The reasons for the municipality – to promote recreational fishing and outdoor life – were not ‘special reasons’ enough for the State. At the same time, the same motorcycling law allows electricity on a general basis in the field. So you have the right to cycle around the water, but you don't have the right to cross the water with the same technology. It's a logical flaw. So we can't put the electric motor on the bar, but we can put the electric motor on the bike. It's not on your fingertips. This is also a matter where it would have been wise with local discretion and local judgements. This case is not about noise or speed. It's about the possibility of getting out and using new technologies. It is about caring for the natural values, but also about caring for the people of the individual. There's an opportunity for new technology to give. So it shouldn't be free slip, it doesn't add up the decision now. So the centre party is therefore satisfied with what is today the decision of the Storting, because it provides room for local discretion and common sense, it provides room for a local assessment of the need to use an electric motor against biodiversity and the particular considerations that may exist. In this way, we will take care of more concerns, more people can move in nature, engage in recreational fishing and outdoor activities, thus also contributing to increased quality of life and better public health. This is a good day.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e395	For the second time in a short time, we are going to consider a proposal to erode the Norwegian legislation on motorised travel in nature – a legislation that has great support for the population. People most want peace and quiet when they travel in nature, not ever more motorized traffic. Any simple ejaculation of the legislation may appear negligible in the broad sense. But all in all, these are increasingly new steps in the wrong direction, and the sum of the insignificant is going to be significant. Why should we not allow the use of an electric motor on water of less than 2 km 2? Electric motors, after all, go quite quietly and without any emissions. Well, because it gives us the opportunity to get on the smaller waters faster -- water where the birds don't have as many places of residence as on the larger waters. We will more easily scare up birds' lives that are under constant pressure from us humans. What human need are we really going to meet with this change? In addition, municipalities have the possibility to authorise the use of motor vessels on lakes less than 2 km 2 where there are specific reasons. The majority in this room will allow more motorised movement on the smallest waters. They try to greenwash themselves by speculating in words such as decoration, and that consideration of nature and, in particular, nesting areas should continue to be taken into account. It sounds nice and nice. And how is this to be ensured? Yes, by imposing more thorough surveys on municipalities. Municipalities shall be required to identify important areas for bird and game in and around the waters. Fine, then I expect that the same parties that are behind the majority will provide more money for the municipalities so that they can actually do that job, that it will not compete with other important tasks that the municipalities have, and that the same parties will grant more money for this on June 15 when we are going to revise the national budget. The government and the Christian People's Party must at least take on a new talk about new funds, because I saw no such money in the budgetary union that came about last night. The paradox in this case is that, as in the wolf case last year, the SV is left standing as the prime defender of the climate and environment minister in the Stortinget. Not even his own party, Left, supports his defense for the birds and the game. Why the Left in the Storting cannot be the same strong defender of the birds and game as the government's climate and environment minister, I just don't understand. I include the SV's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e420	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e425	This matter does not constitute a major change in itself. There will be no natural apocalypse since it is decided that an electric motor with very limited power can be used on water below 2 km 2 under strict environmental regulations. However, it will have a number of negative consequences. There'll be more motorized traffic and more disruptions for people and nature. The enforcement of the restricted engine power requirement will be difficult. The legislation to protect animals, birds and nature is not always respected and followed in the municipalities. But first of all, today's decision is a new small step in a rapid development towards a completely new regime for traffic in Norwegian nature. In principle, motor travel in outland is prohibited. It is still black on white in the motor racing law § 3: ‘In land and watercourses, motor travel is not permitted.’ We have long had reasonable exceptions to this rule in order to facilitate the general use of land, the harvesting of resources, the transport of goods to tourist cabins and the like, but now the exceptions are beginning to become so many that the original purpose of the law is wiped out. The idea behind the law is that in expanse, traditional nature-free life should be given priority. Here, people are going to come up with nature's premise. Here we can measure forces with nature, experience moods, communities and challenges that are very different from everyday life at home near the house. Here we can practice the rich outdoor life culture that is about mastering a world that is a little less accessible. Some believe that this argument is unscientific swarming. They're right that this is more than science. It's also about culture. The ban on motor travel in the countryside is one of the basic prerequisites for the strong and beautiful Norwegian outdoor culture that organizes hundreds of thousands of people in the tourist association and which ensures that most children growing up in Norway can still calm a boat or get on a strange path. The strict regulation of motor travel provides, of course, inherent protection for nature such as bird and animal life – not just the most protective and species-rich nature, but quite common forests, mountain waters and vast areas all over Norway. That is why the Greens are voting against the proposal for further dilution and decoration of this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e448	The principle aspect of this case is that we now allow local water management, where it is possible to open up, for example. low-power electric motor on small inland waters. When the representative Lars Haltbrecken challenges the Left on why we don't defend birds and game, part of the discussion is to create a widely anchored administration that has knowledge that allows one to make good decisions locally. I often stay in the vicinity of a water where I see that electric motors are in use today, without any of the people who have cabins around, or anyone in the administration, looking to have any relation to it. This is already in use, it's also part of reality. These are easily accessible and easy to use. In fact, it is sometimes difficult to see that there is an electric motor used. We must also take this seriously. Many of these waters are scarcely used by people today. Some of them are also growing a little more and are not in use. It's also part of managing and having local knowledge, so there's several sides here. To allow local authorities to participate in decision-making is part of managing and gaining more knowledge about, in particular, bird life and other wildlife in part of these small waters. In some cases here, there is talk of shivering conflicts. I'm going to think that there's more people coming out on the water and putting them into service, can create more defenders of the beaver, which is also a vulnerable part of the administration, because someone wants it gone. There's a lot of consideration here. In this way, it is not possible to open a large lock that more people can use the water and that local administration will have the opportunity to engage in the kind of exemptions and permits that we are opening up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e459	I want to start by thanking the rapporteur, because here we have worked out a consensus between the majority on the Stortinget, and that is a lot thanks to the rapporteur's efforts. I think that's good. I think it's so nice to hear the Central Party on the pulpit today. They talk about there being limits to what politicians have to decide. I could not agree more. It reminds me of one thing that is important for politicians on the civil side, namely that there should be limits to politics. I once lost my mind at the Center Party's party office. That's when it was right in here. There were many old posters from what you can call the Central Party's times of greatness – they're on their way into new times of greatness now. There were signs that taxes had to be reduced and that the level of taxation burdened Norwegian agriculture. I wonder if the Central Party could come back to what they then thought – that political boundaries were important in all respects? It really would have been something. Then we hear the representative Lars Haltbrecken, who is afraid of a loophole in the code. Yes, flexibility is a socialist's greatest threat. It is in all things. We hear distrust representatives from both the Green Party and SV have representatives from this country's locally elected representatives, i.e. our municipalities – those closest to the population, our local democracy. The Greens and Greens just cannot trust them, and they have shown it in several issues that we have dealt with in the Energy and Environment Committee this spring. I can kind of understand that, not because the premise is right and local democracy is wrong, as these two parties clearly believe, but because we see how they govern, for example. this capital – a breach of promises after a breach of promises that they are unable to manage. I'm pleased with the consensus we have in the committee. It is therefore a matter of allowing municipalities to grant exemptions for the use of electric motors with a limited power output on water below 2 km 2. This derogation shall be granted only after the municipality has assessed whether it is sound in the light of water as a place of residence for game and birds and has given particular attention to nesting areas. So in this case, one has managed to combine the best from two worlds, both flexibility and important nature protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e473	In order to preserve nature, open air and general well-being, the legislation on outdoor motorcycling seeks to limit the movement to purposes and needs that have a generally accepted utility. The Motor Traffic Act initially prohibits the use of motor vessels on lakes less than 2 km 2 in size. However, where there are ‘special reasons’, the municipality may provide for such use. The specific reasons shall be set out in the Regulation and may typically require transport to cabins or accommodation sites which allow them to rely on boat transport. Leisure fishing could not be a particular reason under this provision. If there are specific reasons, the municipality may also grant a derogation on a case-by-case basis upon application, where there is no municipal regulation. The proposal of the representative implies that the municipality has access to such a regulation without any specific reason, but limited to the use of power-limited electric boat engines. The proposal will mean, for example: could be permitted to use electric motors with limited power for fishing trips. I believe that the need for the use of an engine on a water boat that is less than 2 km 2, is relatively limited. Transport distances in such waters naturally become relatively short. However, as described in the draft representative, there are considerations that advocate more liberal rules for the use of electric boat engines in small water. Electric motors with a limited power output will in most cases neither be harmful to the natural environment nor be disruptive to other users of the water or the near environment of the water. At the same time, I am concerned that such opening may nevertheless have negative effects that need to be included in the assessment. The Directorate-General for the Environment has given technical advice that legislation should not be amended. In small lakes, increased boating can have a negative impact on animal and bird life. Increased motorised traffic in less water may also be negative for other open-air life. For example, the speed and extent of boating may have a negative impact on e.g. bathing and paddling, and on animal and bird life. I would also like to point out that electric motors for boats are in constant development, and electric motors are being supplied for almost all kinds of boats and craft for water, and the engines are getting stronger and stronger. We must not get there that there is a expectation that everything that is powered by electricity can be allowed in the field. The rules for outdoor motor travel are technology-neutral, and there is a reason for this. However, electric motors are, to varying degrees, low noise, and they do not have emissions to air, but devices powered by such engines may interfere with both vegetation, animal life and general well-being. At the same time, I believe it is important for the acceptance of the legislation that there is no unnecessary rigidity. In this case, I believe we are close to this limit, and I therefore think it makes sense to consider whether minor changes should be made to the legislation on the use of limited-power electric motors, as I have also said in my reply to the Committee. In the end, I would like to point out that any amendment to the legislation may require a change to the law, since today's prohibition is a consequence of the law, and the law does not appear to have provisions that allow for the opening of exemptions by regulation in a case like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e497	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e502	Since the appointment of the committee, I have received many enquiries from individuals, hunters' and fish associations, the media, etc. when this can be put to life. Can the Council of State say something about how fast this can take place, and is it possible to get this done in the municipalities during the current season?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e507	The decision is now taken today, and we have to follow the usual procedure, so I can only say that this is to be done without undue delay, but I think it is difficult to get it through this season with the hearing opinions that need to be put in place. That decision is now, when you ask for a regulation change, we also have to make an assessment, as I mentioned at the end, whether it is possible to do so with a regulation change, or whether we need to make a minor amendment to the law. Then it will take the time it takes. But for this summer and the autumn, I think you have to look at the legislation we now have, with the exceptions that apply there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e512	I was a little surprised by the last Council of State said in its contribution, that there might have to be a change in the law anyway. The whole reason why the committee has made a change of regulations is the ministry's signal that it is sufficient. That is also the reason why the Central Party has not made a proposal in this Chamber today, where we would ask for a change in the law. Then I consider promoting that proposal, to say it like that. Can the Council of State say something about the new reason for now doubting whether this can only be done with a regulatory change?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e519	I am not the lawyer who has looked at those proposals and will make that assessment. If it's possible to do it without a law change, but only with a regulation change, of course, I'm going to do it. But it's a purely legal assessment that I have to leave to the professionals I have in the department to do. However, as soon as this decision – as it now stands – is adopted, we will, of course, make that assessment as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e524	Then I have to ask: will the Council of State immediately take the initiative for such a change of law if it turns out that a change of regulation is not sufficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e529	Then we do it, of course, completely without undue delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e534	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e541	I must be allowed to praise the Council of State, which is quite rigorous in this matter. It's bravely done, and it's right, and the council is in some way ambassador to nature and not just ambassador to the government. That's good. It is tempting to think of such an amendment as the proposal implies. It seems pretty good, I've heard these electric motors even on the water – you barely hear them. But there is a very important point here that has not been mentioned – I know well about it, and I know well about the fauna that is in these waters – and that is that mobility is increasing. That is the whole point of that – mobility is increasing. You get faster around the water, out into the reed areas, if you want, on the opposite side of the water. We're talking about water that's 1 km one way and 2 km the other way. There could be a melodrama, it could be a big plumber, it could be a song habit lying on a nest on an island there, it could be cranes that lay eggs away on the other side. It's easier to get there. This is an important argument that a professional assessment would bring about. That's why the proposal, the comments and the positions of the Council of State are correct, and that's why the Directorate says what they're doing. A tear will cloud its nest after one disturbance – one disturbance. The singing habits will cloud the nest after one disturbance. Is it all right if it makes it easier? This is not as simple as it may seem, this is really a rather serious matter, because we are breaking a limit. You can do something a little bit fun out of it and say that we don't see that boundary under water. No, but there's a limit on water that we're now breaking. What's an electric motor? Maybe not just what we're experiencing right now. It was also mentioned from the pulpit here, from several speakers, that electric motors are in strong development. We see the acceleration on many cars, on other craft – it goes incredibly fast. Battery capacity is increasing. So we're breaking a limit. So the question is, what is the ‘limited effect’? It has to be found in an assessment, in a regulation – what is a limited effect? I'm afraid, based on the attitudes that are now represented here in the hall, that that limit will be possible, and that the interpretation will be quite substantial. I just have to be allowed to say that I am concerned about nature because we are now breaking a limit. So we'll see what comes out of regulatory changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e556	As the initiator of this proposal, of course, I was excited about the committee reading, and I was very pleased with the outcome of the committee, at least until I heard the statements of the Council of State here today. The timing was that Holtålen municipality had many enquiries from several people who wanted the possibility to use electric motors on less water. The store opened for electric bicycles in the outfield, and it appeared to the municipality that this also had to apply to the boat engine. As I said, there is a greater danger that bicycles will put tracks in the wild than an electric boat does. After dialogue with mountain government and landowners, etc. the Holtålen municipality took decisions on regulatory changes that allowed the use of electric motor on a 20-year named water, on grounds of promoting recreational fishing in those waters concerned, in particular for restocking purposes. There might be a lot of 20 water out there, but in a municipality as extensive and as many mountain waters as we have, it's just a fraction of them. On 25 August 2017, the State repealed the decision because the requirement for ‘special reasons’ in Section 5 of the Motor Travel Act was not fulfilled. In the context of its decision, the municipality of Holtålen had also introduced a regulation that petrol engines up to six horsepower could be used on water above 2 km 2, on named water. It is quite illogical for me to check the decision on the electric motor, while the decision on the petrol engine was quite correct. It is also very illogical to allow an electric bike, but not a boat engine. This could not be the intention of the legislator. That's why we proposed a change in the law, but the ministry concluded that there was enough change in the regulation, to which an almost overall committee agreed. After the statements of the Council of State here today, I choose to take up the proposal of the Central Party in the matter, because I was very impressed with what a person really thought about whether or not there was enough to change the regulation. This was done to promote outdoor life and to ensure the cultivation of these waters. It is a small matter in the broad context, but important to those involved, and not least it is a victory for local democracy. Of course, local authorities are the ones who have local knowledge to take these decisions. There is a limit to what the County Council is going to be able to try out, and I hope now that this change in regulation will come into place quickly, so that it can be put into life as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e570	The representative of Heidi Greni has then taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e576	The representative Kjeseth from the left says that the cabin people by the water he lives with, sees no problems with the use of the electric motor on his water. No, it is also not the cabin people SV are concerned about this matter, and I would like the left of the Stortinget to be equally concerned about nature, about bird life, as the left of the government is about this matter. That is the problem, that we can scare up bird life, and – as we heard from my colleague Arne Nävra say – get birds to leave their nests. Then the representative Heggelund from the Right comes with a harange around things that have nothing to do with this matter at all. I would recommend the representative Heggelund to read the letter received from the government in the matter, and I would also recommend the representative Heggelund to use the lunch break afterwards to hear again from the government spokesman in this matter, the State Council Ola Elvesuen. Once again, as in the wolf case, SV has to stand up as the climate and environment minister's warmest defender of nature, while the government parties fail their own government. It's sad to see in such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e585	The representative Heggelund is attacking the Greens' local policies on an incredibly thin basis, as usual. Many municipalities make an enormous effort to preserve nature, soil and nature, but we still see that in practice there is often a conflict between local and national concerns. We saw that last time in the debate on the Near Nature Act, and it turns out that the entire 86 pst. of the applications for construction in prohibited areas were granted in Norwegian municipalities in the years to come in time. Only in 14 pst. Thus, the representatives of the municipalities were able to resist strong local interests in building up the near-nature. It's suffering from the near-nature. In the case of soil protection, we have a national target of less than 2,000 deches per year. Nevertheless, the municipalities are able to build up about 6,000 decares a year – three times as much. In the debate even the Central Party wanted rapporteurs and local politicians not to take responsibility for the negative decisions and rejections that the strong close interests want to raise. In the water and snowmobile business, we also see that there are a large number of exemptions. You want to take local considerations at a local level. That's understandable. We in the Green Party even have 300 local representatives, and local authorities want to take local considerations into account, are quite natural. I myself have lived in several smaller communities and know that when you meet the neighbor the next day, whether it's on a ferry or on a trip, and you've just given up on a case, it's going to be difficult. The Greens have great confidence in the enormous efforts made by local politicians, but this is about system failures. It's about measuring it at different levels. Municipal targets want to take into account local considerations, national targets should take into account the whole country and nature. When there is a conflict between the two objectives, we need to maintain national targets and ensure that there are national instruments that can ensure that national targets are reflected at local level. Today, it is about such national considerations, the consideration of nature, and I would therefore challenge – and at the same time ‘join’ – the representative Haltbrecken that the Green Party is even warmer in supporting the climate and environment minister in this very matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e598	In the Left, we are very pleased that the Green and SV Environment Party is a big fan of Environment Minister Ola Elvestuen. We have to say that the left is too. We have named Ola up to that ministerial post, and it is also to defend environmental protection interests. In this case, we are discussing management, but also the mobility of the representative Arne Nävra. When the representative Haltbrecken quotes me, it's fine if he quotes me correctly, because I don't live by an inland water. I live right at Mjösa, which is a big lake, but that's not what we're talking about here. In the case of the cabin people – yes, in some cases it applies to them, but the fact is that in many of these cases there are no cabins at those waters and very rare dwellings. Around many of the waters there are docks in decay, and they are very difficult to reach by boat. Many of the boats lying there are about to rot or lie unused, so there are not so many boats to put this electric motor on. We should remember that, too. Speaking of mobility, there are many older people with a relationship to a part of this nature that today, because of the bridges or that they cannot calm, does not get out of the water. The tiny electric motor is the means to enable someone to take part in and communicate both local knowledge, management and the natural diversity that is around and in these waters. There is one important reason why I think it is okay that we allow municipalities themselves to take the initiative to regulate the possibilities in a few waters, because we do not allow for a large-scale electric motorisation of small inland waters by this decision. It's important, when someone opens up that someone can take such an initiative and get an exception, that we evaluate what it leads to. It is a call for both ourselves and the bureaucracy that one with a change of regulations allows it to follow up an evaluation of this. It is also important to note that more people have been involved in electric bicycles and other opportunities offered by electric power – that one will follow the consequences of creating new opportunities for human mobility in nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e611	I have to say I'm a little surprised when I hear the SV and the Environmental Party The Greens in this case, because I thought they were really supporters to add up to the cultivation of fish water, increased use of nature and an environmentally friendly outdoor life without the use of polluting technology. I was very surprised when this whole initiative came from those who wanted the cultivation of these fish waters. The municipality decided this, just to get a better cultivation. When they say that there is much more noise from the electric motor than it is from someone who rudders, I am also very surprised, because at least the electric motors I have heard, there is no life from. The requirement for limited power is very sensible, and it is not worse to enforce it in the case of electric motor than it is in the case of petrol engine. It is very incomprehensible to me that we should not be able to take into account the natural assessments we have to make. This is what the municipalities do today when they allow the petrol engine on a water of 2.1 km2. Of course, this can also be done by the municipalities when they are to allow an electric motor on a water of 1,9 km 2. I have to say it surprises me that one does not see that the general legal opinion is challenged when you can ride as much as you like with electric bicycles in the terrain around these waters, but you cannot use an electric motor on a boat on the water. If someone could explain to me that it's completely logical, it would have been enlightening to me at least. To the representative from the Right who had been in the Center Party's office – he would otherwise take a bit more of a trip, there's a lot to learn: if he had looked a little more closely after, he would also have seen posters on respect for local democracy, no for coercion, etc. That's just the respect for the local democracy center party is occupied with. There is also much in the Right Programme about respect for local democracy, less state control, less objection, etc., but the big difference between the Centre Party and the Right is that in the Centre Party there is consistency between word and action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e626	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e631	I would like to remind the representative, Mr. Greni, that when there are particular reasons for this, the municipalities today have the right to do what the Central Party wants. In addition, during this debate, we are tempted to propose that the Stortinget should start the fan club of the climate and environment minister Elvestuen, but I fear that in this case the fan club would have three members: signed, Arne Nävra and Per Espen Stoknes. It is unfortunately not very much to build an organization on. But I have a question for the parties who now support the proposal for a decision, saying that the municipalities will carry out the nature mapping. The question is: will there be more money to the municipalities for this nature monitoring in the revised national budget? The question goes to the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the Workers' Party. Everyone has speaking time left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e640	I'll be brief. What I don't fully understand here, according to the post of the representative, Greni: She talks about we need to have confidence in local authorities that are going to assess nature considerations – or something in that amount of time there. As far as I understand from the proposal of the Central Party, that is the last thing for those reasons. The proposal of the centre party is that more or less electric motors be opened for use on less water. They don't have the tail hanging in the recommendation either. Then the question is, how in the world should such considerations be taken into account? If I understand the proposal of the Center Party, it's more or less clear. I do not know if the representative can explain to me – if she has speaking time again – what that proposal means, if it is then to take into account scientific assessments of when the electric motor can be put on the boat and it can be run on water less than 2 km 2. Actually, I don't get it. I would like to underline the point made by my colleague, Mr Haltbrecken: there is an enormous need for an ecological base map. Had we had an ecological base map for the country, which showed the natural qualities, the municipality didn't have to call natural people locally and ask: Do you have anything on this water? I've actually got some of those phones, where you've asked if there are any values -- if there's a tiger game here, there's a hedgehog there. It is very sad that we do not have such a basic map, because then the science authorities had a completely different tool to work from.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e652	First to the representative, Mr Greni: I think in this debate we can be very happy to see that our two parties agree, as we are here. To the representative Haltbrecken: now we have a majority who are actually willing to give priority to what he is asking about, just look at the development of the species database, where we're going to get a good overview of the real biodiversity of our country. But I reacted to something else that the representative Haltbrecken said. He said that the representatives Stoknes, Nävra and Haltbrecken were nothing to build a union on. I can't imagine anything less true. These are activists of the purest and most prestigious brand, and I'd also like to be in the fan club of the state council Ola Elvestuen, and I think I'm talking on behalf of the entire government fraction. We could have had a website like hot olasstue.no, we could send out a newsletter called Elve-new, and we could have had sightseeing at his old offices at the City Hall, where he has been the City Council and the head of the City Development Committee. I think this association is life-making, and I'm glad it's going to be cross-political.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e667	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e672	I got two-three challenges here that I would like to answer. In the case of nature considerations, it is a prerequisite for the whole of the Motor Traffic Act. Where the municipality may grant a derogation and where the municipality may make local regulations, it is a prerequisite that it is taken care of and monitored. Of course, it's no worse for the municipality to do it for a water that is 1.9 km 2, where you want an electric motor than for a water of 2.1 km 2, where you want a petrol engine. I would think that a petrol engine could have a greater impact on the nature around it. As far as funding is concerned, I'm going to be a little stunned, because while the representatives say that there is no cry out there that we are going to have more disturbance in nature, that the people do not want more disturbance in nature, and that this is not wanted by the inhabitants, there must be a great extra allocation for the enormous amount of money it will be in this matter. I can promise that the Center Party will at least bring more money to the municipalities, and we will do this within our draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e688	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has spoken the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e693	Now we start talking – when the representative Arne Nävra talks about ecological base maps. That's where the left shows what we've been doing in the last four years. We have allocated a lot of money to get the municipalities to do nature mappings. The work on ecological base maps is in progress. The species database is part of that. But the municipalities that are going to apply for a derogation here, we must assume that they have done a pre-work and know what they're doing. If there is no basis for saying that it is not possible to obtain that exemption, or to give the county councillors special supervision over those municipalities. Here there is a lot of good work going on, and I expect that the Council of State also says in its article.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e700	I had really thought about whether it was right to take the word again, when it was suggested both referrals in previous offices and other. But what I was going to say was exactly what was about a knowledge promise for Norwegian nature, because there is a promise that has been made in recent years. The work on the ecological base map is well under way. This year, alone, we spend 103 million. kr at work with an organic base map and it is expected that the organic base map portal will be ready by 2020. It's not an ecological base map that is and will ever be finished, this will be a continuous work, for the whole time to develop it further, so that there is a basis for different levels of government to make decisions in individual cases. But first of all, this is to provide a basis for a more holistic ecosystem-based management, which is what we have to work for in the years to come. I would like to say to this very specific proposal that it is right that I have not recommended it, but it has been an assessment. I think we'll be fine enough to follow up on the proposal that now seems to have a majority, without that leading to any negative effects on the waters that are less than 2 km2. Of course, there's a job in clarifying what it is to have little effect on these electric motors, but this I'm sure we'll be able to do in a good way, so it gives some more an opportunity to move with an electric motor on these smaller waters and gives flexibility to the municipalities without causing negative effects on nature and the environment for the same water.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e712	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e717	I noticed that several people had the rhetorical point of comparing electric boats on water with electric bicycles on land. I can then reassure the Center Party that it is forbidden to use self-propelled electric bicycles in nature – you have electric scooters, but then you must have a divorce. As an avid lover myself, I know that you have to cycle all the time, and besides, you cycle on the path, while an electric boat goes all by itself, so it is more comparable to an electric scooter. The second is that with a boat you get close to the nest, while with an electric bike you rarely ride bicycles across the hill, then you cycle on a path. In this way, there is a very limited movement pattern for electric bicycles, which does not apply to boats. With regard to both the movement pattern and the way you drive the engine, there are very big differences in the two categories.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e724	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e740	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note. The first speaker is Åsmund Aukrust, spokesman for the cause. He is not present in the hall. Then we move on to the list of speakers, and the next one is Stefan Heggelund.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e751	Nature conservation is an important theme. It is important because we need to ensure that the generations of the future can enjoy amazing natural experiences in the same way that we can do. It's a conservative base value, because we believe that society is built together with the generations that came before us, and the generations that come after us. In addition, nature protection is an important climate action. Why? Well, that's because the more biodiversity we have, the better nature is equipped to meet the changes that we know are coming. This is the bulk of the population aware of and conscious of this, and we show that by the way we deal with this matter. We believe that there is a need to complement existing protection in order to ensure representativeness, preserve endangered nature and make the protection areas more robust. We also believed that in the last period, when we joined in the proposal that supplementary protection be implemented to cover deficiencies in today's protection areas. That is why the Ministry of Climate and Environment is working on complementary spatial protection plans, which are to take care of both the intention of the representative proposal and the follow-up to the Storting decision in dealing with the nature diversity communication. We therefore believe that the matter is well taken care of as it is, and that what is requested by the minority in this case is not necessary – because it may go a little too far, but also because the government is doing important work. It can't be that just because you might not get it exactly the way you want to in a case, you have to come forward with a new proposal for a representative. One would have to do that, but the point here is that the government is already working on an important work based on both what the government writes on the Jeløya platform, and what was the clear intentions of the majority of the population when we last addressed the nature diversity message. So this is taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e760	I don't think we should fight to protect as much as possible. It is not certain that there is any point in itself to protect, for the whole point must be to protect what is necessary to protect, but not to protect for the sake of protection. I also think it is important to note the good work done with voluntary protection and local involvement. And I'm glad that the Council of State seems to have an understanding of local participation and the importance of local acceptance. I'm excited to see what the stately, supplementary protection plans are going to look like. The progress party is going to follow that work carefully when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e767	The Central Party is building its policy on several ideas. One of these is the management page. In it lies that the earth is to be managed in such a way that it is left in better condition to the next generation than it was when we took over it. The Norwegian National Parks are established in a proud tradition of values that are worth preserving, and the Central Party has largely supported that work. However, the Centre Party is also in a different tradition, where values can be preserved through use – in many cases, use that creates and preserves values, such as: grazing. We produce food on the pasture and get biodiversity again. We cut forests and plants forests and get both biological and economic values again. It is even crucial for the climate solution. About one third of the Norwegian species that are endangered belong to the agricultural cultural landscape. Nature is not only valuable if it is completely untouched. It's also valuable if we use it properly. The Centre Party believes in active management protection and a knowledge-based protection policy. We have less faith in state and bureaucratic protection regimes that are swept down the heads of community, business and landowners. Therefore, the centre party does not share the point of departure for the present case, that there is a need for more protection. Today is about 17 pst. by Norway already protected, and the Central Party does not exclude that in the future there may also be areas that deserve protection, but the starting point must be that this is necessary and that it can be demonstrated that the areas in question actually possess sufficient qualities which mean that the national park status should be the instrument. Nor does it affect the fact that resources are owned by someone, whether it be the state – all of us – or private owners of land. In Norway, we have many owners of land. Most are smaller, and there has been a success factor for value creation, allocation of resources and a long-term management tradition. The Central Party will recall that in the 1980s and 1990s we had conflict-fulfilled peace processes leading to the principle of voluntary protection. The system has been a major success: implementation costs have been substantially reduced and conflicts have almost disappeared. Professional evaluations show that the scheme has provided good solutions in the natural sciences. The system has also shown its strength by having the power to follow up with appropriations for peace. Politically, voluntary protection has been strong, and in June 2017, the then State Council Helgesen stated that there should be a high threshold to deviate from volunteering in the protection of private forest. The centre party notes that in its new government statement, the government unequivocally states that the objective of protection is to be achieved through private voluntary protection or through the protection of publicly owned forest areas. The central party assumes that this is also the policy of setting up new national parks and protection areas, and that it does so on a voluntary basis, through local solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e780	Norway's national parks are our natural taxes. We started here late in the country to provide large natural areas with protection for the future, but we started off well. However, we still have a job to do. The pressure on those parts of Norwegian nature that are not sufficiently secured for the future is high. The impacts on the natural environment are occurring at a pace far beyond natural development. The UN Environment Programme has estimated that it disappears from 150 to 200 species worldwide every day. We humans are dependent on nature. Today, many important species and habitat types are at risk of permanent disappearance. Land use interventions, harvesting, pollution and climate change are one of the most threatening threats to natural diversity. The main threats to biodiversity in Norway are the destruction and fragmentation of habitats for animals and plants through various types of land use interventions. National parks and other nature conservation areas ensure vulnerable and threatened natural habitats and preserve areas of high value. If one assumes that the whole of Norway was once untouched by humans, half of this untouched nature was gone by 1900. In 1948, the proportion of non-interventional nature was reduced to 34 pst, whereas today it is only a little over 10 pst. again of what was once. When you reach my age, many will come to the conclusion that everything was better before. I've also done that, at least in the case of the Right Party. In the years 2001–04, the Norway Free National Park King, Børge Brende, had as Minister of Environmental Protection. No one has been given the same number of national parks in the state council that he was given. It started with a phone call from journalist Karl Brox in the address paper in Trondheim. He asked the councillor to pull out the top right drawer on his writing desk. The 1993 Land Plan for National Parks was ready to be implemented. The fire pulled out the drawer and started. Never have we seen the husband at the pace of the creation of new national parks here in the country. But where's the Right of the Day? Why does not today's Right the good conservative tradition of taking care of nature for the future? Why won't today's Right support the SV and the Christian People's Party's representative proposal on new national parks? It is a question I ask myself after we have dealt with this matter, and I include it in our proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e799	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e804	I thought we'd cost ourselves a little brilliance from previous bigoting, which has made sure that we have 46 national parks, including 7 at Svalbard, and that they have become a reality, and not least that the National Park Plan from 1993 on the way has been realized. Protection as a national park is well on the way to completion in Norway, but the reason we have taken this initiative in conjunction with SV is that we want to put in place a holistic complement to the national parks we have today. In some cases, it may be appropriate to extend existing parks, in other cases to establish new ones — all in order to ensure that a representative selection of Norwegian nature is protected in this way. In recent years, there have been some wishes and suggestions in the UK about the creation of new national parks. The Christian People's Party has not supported these, even though we have been far away in the intention. An important, but also invasive, action such as the establishment of national parks should be planned and preferably seen in a health centre, and of course the municipalities concerned, and others, should also be able to influence these processes. We notice that the government party shares the same intention far in the way, but will be happy to decide the progress and the way of working, without the Storting getting mixed up. State council Elvesuen's fan club may have a lot to do. He is a government council that does a good job in many areas, but in this area I could have thought that the whole-hearted submission was something the Storting could also have a word in the team on. Of course, we take note that this is the way it is, and that the majority seems not to meet this proposal, even if we think that the health suffers when the working method is a good one, is state-by-state planar. But the most important thing is that natural diversity becomes certain. National parks are one way, voluntary forest protection is another, active use with respect for natural contexts is a third. We have a beautiful country that we're going to live on, and we're going to take care of it in terms of protection in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e817	Maintaining a selection of Norwegian nature against future intervention has long been an important part of Norwegian policy. The National Park Plan is an important part of this, so it is important to clarify that the intention of the representative proposal is good. The left will protect more nature than today, and we will create national parks to care for natural diversity. Maintaining natural biodiversity is essential for the ecosystem and how ecological interactions will address future changes in the environment. Loss of natural diversity and biodiversity are as acute a challenge to life on the planet as climate change. We know that almost half of the endangered species of animals and plants in Norway today live in forests. Still, only 2.9 pst. of the productive forest in Norway protected today. In the nature diversity message, we have set ourselves the goal of protecting 10 pst. Of 16 types of wetlands we have in Norway today, 9 are threatened, and 183 endangered species have wetlands as their main habitat. It may be fatal for these species if wetlands are degraded or lost. Many scientists have pointed to what they call a sixth mass extinction, where today the world's species are eradicated a thousand times faster than what is natural. In all years, species have disappeared naturally, but due to human activity and land changes, they are now disappearing much faster. It is therefore more important than ever to ensure the conservation of these species and to ensure an ecosystem for all species, which the national park plan will contribute to. National parks shall be reported according to the Report. St. 14 for 2015–2016 ensure that a representative sample of large, valuable natural areas without major technical intervention is preserved for the future, as is the case with 46 national parks in Norway today, not in full. It is therefore necessary to implement supplementary protection in line with the nature diversity notification. The State Councils and the Ministry of Climate and Environment have launched this by starting work on complementary spatial protection plans. In the context of these additional supplementary protection plans, an assessment of complementing the national park plan and specifying the areas that will qualify for new national parks will be carried out through specific registration work. It is important to add that over the years we have created the 46 national parks, mountains and inland are well represented. Seas now begin to get to, while forest and inland are less represented. So the diversity of national parks is also important. So to the representative Lars Haltbrecken: the red-green government sat for eight years. We got nine national parks richer then, but there's at least a good distribution between the blue-green and the red-green side here. Many national parks — fortunately — have been established from both sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e832	Fortunately, we have many beautiful national parks in Norway, and I think I can say with full certainty that we do not regret any of them. The fight for national parks to protect nature values has been long and hard, but when some years have passed, there is always a broad consensus afterwards that – yes, it was right to protect. Nevertheless, the nature of Norway is becoming less and less untouched. Only 11 pst. the nature of the country has been wild, and brutal nature interventions are planned and carried out in areas that are valuable both as a non-interventional nature and for indigenous peoples. The Fosen wind project destroys traditional reindeer areas and large parts of the most pristine coastal nature in Trondelag. In Finnmark, the Davvi wind farm is planned on Varangerhalvøya, in the middle of one of Norway’s largest non-interventional areas. Today, Stortinget will probably vote in favour of the Green Party's proposal to stop the loss of wilderness-like nature and start restoring lost natural values. Someone has to talk on behalf of nature and not just human interests. That is why, in the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European We need a new national park plan that is both about creating new national parks and expanding the old ones. The Green Party, for example, believes that: that the time is now overdue for new national parks in the Preikestolen, in the East and across borders in the North Callot. We believe that there is a great deal of room for extension of national parks, such as: Jotunheimen National Park, which should be extended southwards to Bygdin and perhaps further southwards, and Upper Dividal National Park, which should be extended westwards and southwards with large areas northwards of Altevatnet. One of the most important features of a new national park plan is that one can make an in-depth assessment of the possibilities for new national parks in the lowlands and along the coast, which are currently strongly under-represented in our protection plans. We hope the Council of State sees the importance of this topic and will continue to work on it even if the government parties unfortunately vote down the proposal here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e843	In the big news Nature for life, Stortinget provided the basis for the long-term work to take care of Norwegian nature. Area protection is one of the means of achieving this. Today it is approx. 17 pst. by the protection of mainland Norway. National parks account for about half of the total population. 10 pst. of this. In the examination of the nature diversity communication, Stortinget pointed out that for the future, national parks will ensure a representative selection of large, valuable natural areas without major technical intervention. It was also pointed out that new national parks are needed, including: in coastal nature and in coniferous areas in the lowlands. We have 39 national parks on the mainland. In addition, there are seven on Svalbard. After the launch of the Raet, Jomfruland and Fäder national parks, the representativity along the coast has also improved considerably. However, we still lack national parks in the coniferous forest in the lowlands. I have therefore asked the Environment Directorate to carry out natural science registrations in East Marka outside Oslo. If the registrations show that the natural and legal requirements of the Nature Diversity Act for national parks can be met, I intend to start a protective planning process to establish a national park in the eastern part of the country. Such a nearby national park will strengthen Oslo's reputation as an environmental capital. The size has decided to draw up additional supplementary protective plans. This work has started my department. These plans are designed to ensure that we protect a representative range of natural habitats that are currently not well enough trapped in the protected areas and that we are protected more of the nature that is threatened. The plans may cover all protection categories. The type of protection chosen for the different areas depends on the nature values to be taken into account and the types of intervention and activity that can be compatible with the preservation of the natural values. The additional protection plans could therefore include both national parks, nature reserves, landscape protection areas and biotope conservation areas. In the Jeløya platform, the government has taken the view that we should consider complementing the National Park Plan. I believe it is natural and most cost-effective that this happens as part of the work on supplementary protection. If registrations reveal the need for many new potential national parks, or any extension of existing parks, it may be relevant to anchor this further work in a separate national park plan. When I learn more about the number of areas that may be relevant for the purpose of new national park protection, I will decide whether there is a basis for developing a separate plan for this work. If it turns out that there are a limited number of areas, I think it might as well be appropriate for the protection processes to be included as part of the complementary supplementary protection plans. Finally, I would like to say that I am happy for Storting's commitment to our national parks. National parks are important to preserve the values of the unique nature we have, and it is also important to remember that they are important to create green jobs in the districts, and they are an important part of Norway’s brand structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e861	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e866	In Northern Ireland, there has been a long time to create Lofotodden National Park. My simple question to the Council of State is: When will Lofotodden National Park be established?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e871	That's what I've said to the committee before. It's being treated in the department, and we're going to make a decision this semester, that's before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e876	I thank you for your answer and look forward to our summer vacation and celebrate that Lofotodden National Park will be established before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e881	As I said, it is for consideration, and we have to make a decision before summer. But I can add that we can already celebrate that we have an extension of Dovrefjell – Sunndalspjella National Park, with Hjerkinn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e886	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e893	That's about. 10 pst. by mainland Norway protected as national parks. When you know what Norway looks like, with topography, geography, the dominance of mountains and seas, maybe this isn't as impressive as it might seem in the first place. Fortunately, the picture is quite different on Svalbard, and I'm glad. There are large areas protected, as we know. All, with the exception of the Centre Party, demonstrate in the comments on the scientific evaluations of Norwegian protected areas carried out by NINA, the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research, which clearly shows that current protected areas are not sufficient to preserve endangered nature. So there's a part left over. The same batches are concerned about the evolution in which the wild nature is about to disappear – it's getting smaller and smaller. That's good. They also say, and it has been said by almost all the speakers here today, that it is important that national parks in Norway ensure a representative selection of large, valuable natural areas without major technical intervention. But then, of course, reference is made to the Ministry's initiative, which the Council of State went through, on these regional protection plans, where national parks can be built. I myself have been involved in the development of state-of-the-art protective plans, and I think it is absolutely appropriate for smaller areas, such as wetland reserves, noble forest, biological deposits, etc., but national parks will often cross the county boundaries, and it is in the concept of ‘national’ that there are often large values for the country, i.e. national protection values. In addition, the point of a national plan is to prioritise nationally, not within the counties. Of course, the counties and municipalities should be actively involved in the process, it should be lacking, but a national park plan is a incorporated form of government work, it is something the department and the directorate can do, and the subject has not been directly strengthened in the regional administrations in recent years. Therefore, the SV’s proposal on this national park plan. I think it is sad that the Centre Party – which we often agree on district policy and agricultural policy, where we are tightening up – does not see the possibilities in the areas of protection, just the constraints. That is, you are looking for arguments against any proposal for protection. However, it is very possible to argue – from ecotourism to business development – for districts based on the protection area. In fact, today, that industry is beginning to sail up as an important factor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e904	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e920	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six series of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e929	For the last 50 years, we've destroyed people more of the natural wealth than what was destroyed from the mornings until the 1960s. Species now die out to an extent and a speed up to 1000 times faster than normal. Life's library is on fire. This fire we must extinguish, and we must begin to restore part of the areas that are destroyed. We are facing a mass extinction of plant and animal species, the largest since the dinosaurs disappeared. The worst thing is that we don't even know what the consequences are for us. This was concluded by the United Nations in a study already in 2005. Losing nature isn't just about losing beautiful flowers, great travel areas and beautiful animals. It's worse. We risk losing benefits today we take for granted: clean water, clean air and clean soil that can give us safe food production, plants that can be used for medicine, and materials that give us shelter – services nature gives us absolutely free of charge. In order to give us these goods, nature must have a diversity. Every butterfly and every moose, the hubrous and the mountain reefs belong to it. Taking care of natural resources is a responsibility we have in the world. We can't buy ourselves or get anyone else to do the job for us. India must take care of its tigers, and it is only we who can take care of Norwegian nature. We know what's going on. To take care of nature, we have to stop building it down, we have to give protection to the important and valuable natural areas, and we have to start restoring the areas that are destroyed. We can pick up some experiences and some inspiration from some of what we've already done. In 1923 a shooting range was established on Dovrejelle. For more than 70 years, tanks, grenades, cannons, bullets and powdered parts of what is Norway’s national mountain dominated. In 1999, the Stortinge decided to drop the firing range. And not only that: The Storting decided that the shooting field should be returned to nature. A nine-time job started, and it's still going on. Roads were to return to nature, mines were to be picked, so that animals and humans could travel safely again, and again the caterpillar, the wild rain and the mogopen were to rule in the Dovreberg kingdom. This work should provide us with inspiration to go further with restoration by nature, and I would like to address the proposals SV agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e938	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e943	In the autumn of 2015, the UN General Assembly decided to halt the loss of natural diversity both on land and in the sea. Together with the UN's sustainability objectives, natural diversity has been strengthened under the Biomangfold Convention. Each country shall update its national strategy and develop an action plan on sustainable use and protection of diversity by the end of 2015. In Norway, we have decided that the national targets should be that ecosystems should be in good condition and provide ecosystem services. No species and habitat types shall be eradicated, the development of threatened and near-threatening species and habitat types shall be improved and a representative sample of Norwegian nature shall be preserved for future generations. The natural diversity provides the basis for man's life on earth. Maintaining and ensuring the sustainable use of natural ecosystems is necessary for the future of man and a prerequisite for growth and well-being in all societies. The terrestrial and marine ecosystems have a natural production from which food can be harvested, and nature provides the basis for the self-production of food by humans. Nature cleanses the water and air, produces oxygen, ensures pollination of plants, recycles nutrients, binds soil, stores carbon, protects against erosion and is important for flood management and mitigation. Climate change affects nature differently, regardless of its initial robustness. For a number of species, the need to be able to spread to new habitats in line with climate change increases. At the same time, interference and interference both globally and nationally contribute to the fragmentation of nature that impedes such dissemination. The increased level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere also leads to marine acidification. The Nature Diversity Act and the underlying legislation are a key instrument for halting loss of species and habitat types, but there is still a need to improve the knowledge base and clarify principles for the use of the instrument, in particular for priority species and selected habitat types, while knowledge-based management is one of the cornerstones of the Nature Diversity Act. Good knowledge is necessary as a basis for good management and for the choice of actions to achieve the national and international objectives of natural diversity. The working party is now in a hurry to start using the new, modern, dynamic and accurate tools to stop the loss of natural diversity. The investigation by the Directorate for Nature Management shows that about 400 species may be considered as priority species. Therefore, it is good that the Environment Directorate should present an assessment during 2018 with proposals on how Norway can best take care of about 90 endangered species and 35 habitat types.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e960	As the representative of Haltbrecken and the representative of Seestad said in a very good way, we are also concerned about nature protection. I was concerned about some of the reasons I had in the speech I had in the previous case, namely that it is both about ensuring that the generations of the future will be able to enjoy our amazing nature in the same way that we do, and that nature protection is important, because the greater biodiversity you have, the better rusted nature is to deal with weather change, which in any case comes from climate change. The representative Haltbrecken has also mentioned a number of other important things that show how relevant an active nature protection is. The majority believe that climate change, the spread of pollutants and the loss of natural diversity are the main environmental challenges of our time. That's why we have to work actively to counteract it. The diversity of nature and the basis of life must be ensured for future generations, so that we leave nature and the environment to our children in at least as good a condition as we took from our parents. Therefore, the government must work to preserve biodiversity, preserve endangered species and endangered habitat types, and we must identify and take action against the main drivers of the problem. In the last period, we discussed Report. Art. No. 14 for 2015-2016. There we adopted a measure of protection of 10 pst. of the forest and restoration of 15 pst. of the degraded ecosystems in Norway by 2025. In addition, we agreed on a few other important things: quality standards for bogs and wild bogs and to assess them for ecosystems, to draw up an action plan to improve the situation of seabirds, and to strengthen the work on ecological land maps – as we see in the budget for budgets that the majority and the blue-green government are concerned about. Then we're going to use the instruments of priority species and selected habitat types to stop the loss of natural diversity. We will further develop the current system of selected agricultural cultural landscapes and increase the number of areas by 2020. The question arises: Do the proposers believe that what we did and agreed on in the previous period, and what the government is now working on implementing, is in vain? Is that why the proposal comes on the table or was it not included? That's the question. The government has an offensive policy in this area. We also know that several parties on the Storting have, and that's why the blue-green majority have agreed on these important instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e973	This is a document 8 which takes a lot of time. I'm going to focus on one of the proposals from the Green Party, which is supported by the Christian People's Party. It's about wetlands. There is reason to take seriously the serious ecological state of our wetlands collected. He has become worse despite the fact that they are important in the interaction of nature, and one has seen a deterioration in recent years. Then we believe that there is reason to ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with proposals that provide better protection of delta, ants, wetlands and other groundwater areas. This is an important area of life for many species, and areas play an important role as ecosystem stabilisers, even outside what goes under this category. Somp and sailors aren't exactly words that sound attractive and invite activity, but they're important anyway. I notice that the Norwegian Ornithological Association has pointed out the same thing. In a row of contexts, we've been busy with the wetlands before, and we're still busy with that. Among other things, we, together with the Left in the budget after budget, have helped to ensure that the rewards for wetlands have increased. There is something that is one thing behind, and as I think it is important to follow up on this Document 8. In the other proposals under consideration, we have supported the assessment of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e984	There is no longer any living person who has seen with his own eyes what wealth nature could exhibit six or eight generations ago. The memories of endless wild fields, bird migrations that filled the entire celestial vault, fjords that boiled of fish – all of this is almost wiped out from our common memory. We only find it in scattered records – almost sagn. Many of us who are happy in nature have become used to looking at these losses and feel some kind of sorrow over the diversity of life that is now ebbing all over the world. We are walking today in a nature that is a shadow of itself. Humanity may also have caused the loss of 83 pst. by all wild mammals. We nature savers are driven from hill to hill, from wetlands to wetlands, from wilderness to wilderness. But now it's enough, the trends have to be reversed, the ambitions have to be raised. Therefore, there is a need for a new front in the fight for life on earth, a policy for large-scale natural renewal, not just protection. Natural renewal gives a positive vision of the future for man and nature. Rich nature has value in itself because it gives individuals, species, populations and ecosystems greater space to thrive and flourish. At the same time, it is well documented that large-scale natural regeneration is also a prerequisite for our civilisation. In addition, there are close benefits in terms of experience values, quality of life and local business. Some believe that natural renewal is about a romantic longing after a past ideal state of pristine nature. It's an infinite banal analysis. Human beings are part of nature, the reality is that we breathe, drink and eat in close interaction with our surroundings, and nature renewal is about creating an interaction where we start enriching the world around us instead of making it poorer. Sometimes human intervention needs to be reduced; sometimes more activity is needed to restore cultural landscapes. The Green Party is therefore proposing a wide range of restoration measures today. Forests around Oslomarka should become an international pioneer area for the restoration of richer and wilder nature. We should establish parties of the species-rich deciduous forest that once existed in the East and South. We need Norway's first national park without hunting. And we should establish large national parks across borders in the North Callot. Finally, I address the two proposals from the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e999	Then the representative Per Espen Stoknes has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1004	The proposer asks the government to take more steps to preserve species and habitat types and to restore ecosystems. The blue-green government is doing a good job of this. The Storting message on natural diversity became a solid and good tool to take care of Norwegian nature. I am actively pursuing all the measures described in the Communication and the additional measures adopted by the Storting. Several measures to address natural diversity are also mentioned in the JELUEA declaration. In my opinion, therefore, there is no need for a new wholesale message in this field now or for a number of new measures to be adopted, as proposed. I would like to briefly explain some of the measures that are relevant to the proposals. Firstly, the government is in the process of implementing a great promise of knowledge for Norwegian nature. Good knowledge is essential for our policy making. We therefore establish an ecological base map for Norway. It will give us new and better knowledge of where, among other things. has threatened nature. We're also in the process of establishing a complete system to measure when the state of an ecosystem is good or not. When this is done, we will set management targets for ecological status for the different ecosystems. Then we can think about what it takes to get good condition. This could be done, for example, by: be restoring. The goal of the nature diversity announcement is to restore 15 pst. towards 2025. We're already restoring a lot of nature. In the period 2015-2018, 65 million have been allocated. kr for the restoration of bogs and other wetlands in Norway. So far, 50 km with trenches closed. It causes moisturizing ants, such as peatmosis, to come back. Following up the environmental objectives of the water management plans means a solid uplift for restoration of the aquatic environment. Among other things, a number of old hydropower concessions have to be revised in view of environmental improvements. Extensive care and restoration work is carried out in cultural habitat types, such as mowing land, emeralds and coastal lynghei. Forest protection is important to ensure Norwegian natural diversity. This government, like the bourgeois majority over several years, prioritises forest protection highly. Never has more productive forest been protected in one year than in 2017. Then 114 forest areas were protected with 213 km 2 of productive forest. We are also planning to protect a number of areas in 2018. In addition, we have started work on creating a comprehensive plan for the further work on marine protection. We are now also starting work on a comprehensive plan for Oslofjorden. A research project on coastal cod stocks, the marine ecosystem and the impact of conservation areas is under way in the Outer Oslofjord. Protected areas shall contribute to the preservation of threatened nature and shall be representative of Norwegian nature. Even if over 17 pst. the land area is already protected, there is a need to complement current protection. We need, among other things: national parks in larger, converging lowland coniferous areas, as previously mentioned. Therefore, natural registrations are now being carried out in the East as a basis for initiating a formal protection planning process there. My ministry has also started work on additional protection plans to address the shortcomings of today's protection on a national basis. We also assess specific measures for about 90 endangered species and 35 endangered habitat types. Priority species, selected nature type and area protection are instruments that can be used. I believe that we have instruments and measures that enable us to take care of Norwegian natural diversity. At the same time, the transition to more ecosystem-based governance is important to ensure that nature provides us with the necessary services and experiences in the future. This requires a promise of knowledge that we are doing well. Based on this knowledge, we will also be able to set up measures and instruments even better than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1030	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1036	In Norway today, we have no national parks without hunting. Several biologists believe that putting in place a reference state to show how the ecosystem works without hunting for key species is central to obtaining a reference state on which a long-term management can be based. It is great that the Council of State refers to a lot of measures being taken — the follow-up to the message of natural diversity, etc., but my question is: Will the Council also take the initiative to establish Norway's first national parks without hunting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1043	What determines the content of the protection regulation is the purpose of protection within each national park. It will then be the purpose of protection that determines what action should be taken. Where we are now, there are no plans to make any own rules for national parks where there should be no hunting, precisely because it does not threaten the protection purpose as such. In the case of the large predators, the policy is enshrined in the Berne Convention, the Nature Diversity Act, the two predatory agreements in the Stortingen and in the Wolffellers in the Stortingen from the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1050	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Since I did not hear anything about any specific area without hunting, I can make a suggestion about perhaps getting more coherent national parks in the North Callot. In Sweden, Sami communities, tourism, forest industry actors and the Rewilding Europe organisation have cooperated to establish Lapland as one of nine major areas in Europe with the restoration of a richer and wilder nature. My question of follow-up will then be: can we establish such a large national park across borders in the North Callot? Will the Council of State take the initiative to cooperate with the Swedish authorities to achieve such cross-border natural renewal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1057	I can't say what's finally going to be a proposal, but I think it's natural to look at this in the supplementary protection processes that are now going to go quarterly. It is also natural to look at what they do in both Sweden and Finland, and see if we should establish further cooperation with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1062	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1082	No one can assume that pills should be used to replace needed care and care. What we know is that those who are in hospitals -- whether it's in somatics or in psychiatry -- those who are in hospital, or those who get help in housing, are people who could have done well. It's not like that. We know they're there because they often need both medical follow-up and care. Sykpleien had a survey that was published just before Christmas. I must say I was very shocked by it, sail if I have known that this has been a big problem for a long time. That is why SV has made proposals on recruitment standards in the care of the elderly. This study gives us a daunting straight. When one of three nurses says that they have given the patient tranquilizers or sleeping medications where it would have been better for the patient to get care and time, it's very serious. There's also another reason why this is alarming. I have had three interviews over the last few years about the adverse effects of dependence on resources given in both hospitals and care for the elderly. Sleeping medicine and anxiety reducing drugs are good in a crisis, but have side effects that are harmful to almost everyone. I'm reading from the study where the nurses answer what this is, that for some of the very old ones who are at their very last, it might not be the big problem if they get sleeping medications for example. to dampen anxiety. I agree. I mean drugs are of the good, but they're to be used so that people don't get sick by them. However, very many others — including this study — get such medications for much longer than they should have had, and then we know that the risk of dependence and side effects is high. This has been known in hospitals for many years, where supervisors have gone in and cleaned up. Patients who were thought to be demented have woken up and got something out of their lives – got in touch with e.g. their closest ones left. So medicine is a good thing, but not always. So the study shows that one in three nurses says that they distribute sedative and anxiety-relieving pills monthly or more often. Here, those who work in nursing homes and living in homes stand out. There it is 43 pst. Which says it's like this. 86 pst. also says this has been going on for a long time. Among nurses who have met patients who have obviously had a dependency problem, which is thus damaging to the patient, there are fewer who say they haven't done anything – 35 pst. says they haven't done anything. It's quite surprising that so many people don't take it up. I'm really wondering what the reason for that might be. Then it's reported that some doctors are out of hand with this, we know that – there's like an open prescription that you can use when there's too few on guard – while others are very restrictive. It means that these patients are without both medicine and care, and there's no good solution either. I want to quote what some of the nurses say: ‘The lack of staff leads to the use of medicines rather than to human contact. It cuts the nurse's heart when you know that environmental therapy had worked better. [[and without side effects]] ‘When the doctor has listed the product as any medicine, I cannot give it as a nurse’, someone replies. And other people say, ‘We have quite ‘free ropes’ for the administration of anaesthetics and tranquilizers when environmental measures do not function as intended’. This could be the case in a given situation. But what most people report is that there are too few people at work. It's serious. Not long ago, we discussed in Stortinget the issue of human rights violations in the care of the elderly. The government parties were against it. Some of these things can actually be so serious that they're a violation of human rights. When so many of the employees — over 400 nurses — describe in their own words how they assess the extent of misuse of medication when working with very sick and old patients, the alarm must also go to government. I wonder very much what the Council of State has intended to do with this. What the Council of State has now done is to present a communication that almost has no new instruments, at least no economic instruments, so that there can be some response to the obvious shortage of professionals and jobs both in the care of the elderly and – it turns out – related to somatic and psychiatry in the specialist health service. It is also part of the study that Sykepleien has had. It is obvious that more staff are needed in the care of the elderly. I am on the municipal and management committee, which has just received the municipal proposal – it is the municipalities that are responsible for the care – and there is no increase in this either. However, there are some quality requirements – quality expectations – for care. That's good. But the gap between what it is possible to do on a late-watch alone, and what is required by the collapse and government, increases for every day that goes. The patients are suffering from it. First of all, they don't get the care and the time they need. Caring is a relationship. Relationship takes time. If you're sick, you're often afraid. If you are ill, you often have anxiety problems and problems sleeping. You need someone who can give you that care. Then we need enough staff who have time and competence to help patients, but also the relatives. There are also many relatives who in situations like this get a completely impossible situation to deal with, when they know that their closest relative in a very critical situation is being medicated where they had needed professional follow-up and someone who had time to listen to them and hold them in hand. The government is talking a lot about efficiency. In this community proposition, they also believed that municipalities could improve efficiency. But I'd say in the care of the elderly, the demented and the sick, it's really a limit to what kind of efficiency you can use. Medication can probably be cheaper and make you feel that it's efficient in an economic sense, because you don't have to hire enough people, but it has nothing to do with quality in care. And it has nothing to do with the safety of the patients involved. I'm excited about what the Secretary of State will answer. This is not just about caring for the elderly, it's actually a major public health problem, because many people get sick of the drugs that were supposed to make them healthy. It is still a long time before both the health services and the authorities take responsibility for reducing the number of adverse effects of inappropriate drug use.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1126	Proper treatment at the right time is a primary objective of the provision of health and care in municipalities, as well as in the specialist healthcare service. We have an excessive consumption of addictive anxiety and sleep medicine in Norway, and we do not want this. Sleep problems and mild mental disorders such as anxiety, anxiety and anxiety are common, and proper treatment of patients with these disorders is important. Medicinal products may be useful if used properly and as short-term help, but patients may experience side effects and develop dependence if the drugs are used for too long, and not least if they are used incorrectly. We know that Norwegian general practitioners print addictive drugs to a greater extent than the OECD average, and that gives cause for concern. This is also done by the results of the survey carried out by the trade journal Sykepleien, from which the interpellant also refers. Time necessity is neither a medical nor a medical reason for printing a medicinal product. This is completely unacceptable. The requisition of medicinal products shall be sound. It implies that the medicinal product is necessary, that the patient is properly followed up and that adequate professional competence is ensured in the services. The doctor shall be withholding the prescription of addictive medicinal products so that it does not contribute to the development of dependence and thereby prolongs or aggravates the basic condition. If a doctor prints addictive medicines in an irresponsible way, the doctor may lose the right to print such medicines. In such cases, I believe it is very important that patients and relatives apply the right to complain. I would also like to remind you that health professionals have their own duty to notify the County State and the State Health Authority of conditions that could pose a risk to the patient’s safety. The Health Directorate has published a guide on the requisition and safety of addictive medicine. It shall provide professional support to healthcare professionals authorised to prescribe addictive medicinal products in order to avoid dependence and to help patients already dependent. There is also a separate guide for general practitioners for the treatment of addictive drugs. An electronic learning programme has been implemented and several have completed the course or are in the process of implementation. Furthermore, improved functionality of medical records will contribute to a better understanding of patients’ drug use. The development of record-keeping systems will also improve the ability of supervisory authorities to control the requisition of medicinal products. It's very important in view of what the interpellant deals with, that one actually recognizes and sees what the individual has actually received from drugs. But it also obliges those who work in the sector. The E-receptive system has already contributed to better control, but I would like to make it clear that control of a doctor's request is actually limited to cases where there is a suspicion of indefence, or where the State Health Authority has given a warning in the past. This is something we have to look at further. Recruitment of medicinal products is an area of responsibility I share with Minister of Health Bent Höie, who was also in the interpellant. We want doctors to have the opportunity to compare their own recruitment practices with those of other doctors, and thus to have access to an overview of their own recruitment practices. Such data and other data on own practices are important tools in the local improvement work. I believe that the supervisor and the e-learning tool will contribute to better practice and awareness on this important topic, and I will follow this closely with the Minister of Health. A systematic review of medicinal products used by the patient is important both at home and for residents. Misuse of medicinal products leads to many unnecessary sufferings each year. Proper use of medicinal products depends on proper diagnosis of the patient and proper treatment. A requirement to carry out a pharmacovigilance for patients with long-term residence in nursing homes on arrival and at least once a year was laid down as from 1 January 2017. Medical review in hospitals is also now a quality indicator that will provide an increased overview and control of this area in the future. With regard to the review of medicinal products for residents, residents with short-term or hospitalisation, it is the responsibility of the prescriber and these patients are covered by the prescriber. This regulation or obligation shall apply if the patient is using four or more medicinal products at the same time and review is required on the basis of a medical assessment. In addition, it is very important that the patient is trained in the use of medicinal products and that relatives be involved in cooperation where necessary. Proper use of medicinal products is an important part of the five-year national patient safety programme, which started in 2014 and expires in 2018. The programme has several concrete measures on how and how often the review of medicinal products is to be carried out. So to the other side of the question from the interpellant. Municipalities have great freedom to organise services according to local needs and priorities. It is the responsibility of municipalities that there is sufficient staff to provide sound health and care services. The government has strengthened the municipal economy, not least to improve the ability of municipalities to provide good and valuable services. Preliminary figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that municipalities increased the annual work effort in the care services by less than 5000 annual works in 2017. It is important to ensure that there are enough people to do care and care tasks, and this must be done by the municipalities. The government has a number of actions through the Competence Plan 2020 to contribute to the professional strength and adequacy of municipal health and care services. One of the measures is national management training for primary health services at the BI School of Economics. Education is free of charge for managers of municipal and county health services. Feedback from participants shows that they are very satisfied and that the skills they acquire lead to concrete changes in the businesses they work in when they come back. The government has also strengthened municipal subsidies for initial, continuing and continuing training and for the management of care services by more than 150 million. kr. The total appropriation was approximately 350 million. kr in 2018. I expect increased competence in services and in management to lead to a reduction in the use of unlucky medicines. Regulations on management and quality improvement in health and care provide very clear requirements for management, among other things. in nursing homes. It concludes that the top management is responsible for planning, implementing, evaluating and not least correcting operations when errors occur. So when health professionals experience time pressure over a longer period of time, to which this is referred, this must be taken seriously by the management of the municipality. This responsibility shall not be extended to the extreme. It is a political and not least an administrative responsibility for the municipalities to provide employees with a difficult dilemma, support and space for ethical reflection. This is a natural part of the continuous improvement and professional development of health and care services. Proper drug use is important, but I am very concerned that we are developing measures that can replace drug use and provide better care. Therefore, environmental treatment is promoted as an important measure of the quality reform for the elderly, Life throughout life. Environmental treatment may reduce the unnecessary use of medicinal products. Environmental treatment can increase mastery and well-being, create new opportunities for communication, community and inclusion, and mitigate anxiety and anxiety. We have seen the effect we have had of moving the meal serving out to the individual nursing home, where there is now a report of much less drug use about the networks and more tranquility. Furthermore, we need to pay great attention to proper health care and nutrition. We need to increase mastering and quality of life and prevent disability. We will do this by being more proactive in the services, by having a more targeted use of physical training, and by doing more systematic monitoring and follow-up. Proper nutrition and good meals together with treatment to prevent functional loss or increase functional level can prevent many health problems and reduce the need for medicinal products. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has had this theme on the agenda in a dialogue meeting with the Legeforeningen. Together with the Minister of Health, I will follow closely the development of the use of medicinal products, so that the prescription of medicinal products is done in a proper manner, and so that medicinal products do not replace care and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1156	I would like to thank you for your answer. Until the last time the Council of State said, they will follow up on this with error and side effects carefully: I am very happy about that. I'm waiting and seeing what's coming, but I just want to say to this minister, as I've said to the others I've had the interpellation to, that this isn't about rushing. It's very important that these things don't end up in drug care, because these aren't people who've been looking for drugs, they're people who get drugs for traffic damage, an anxiety situation, illness or the like. So that's very important. But with regard to the point that there is too little staffing, I believe the Council of State did not respond satisfactorily. Yes, SV and I also agree that the levels of competence that are now in progress are good, and that they – hopefully we – will lead to a reasonable use of the resources. The Council of State said that it is a political responsibility to ensure that there is enough staffing, proper staffing, and that there is no need for time as a reason to give drugs instead of care. Yes, it is, and it is also the responsibility of the Storting and the government. The municipal sector reports that they do not have the money to hire enough people in these sectors. Is it such that the Council of State actually believes that there is room in the local economy today to hire all those who are needed to cover this huge gap that this study has shown? It was not a little bit, this right here; it's 46 pst. Of those who work in housing and care in municipalities, who say that they need to do this for time’s sake — often. It's not an acute situation that occurs once because, by chance, there are many people who are sick once, that's often. This means that you are systematically on a critically low number of crews, so that they are chronically understaffed. It also means that all changes related to disease etc. address and create problems that need to be solved with drugs. That's what these nurses are telling us. The question then is whether the Council of State of the Progressive Party believes that care for the elderly is financed in such a way in the municipalities today that the municipalities could have employed enough staff to meet this need without any difficulty.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1167	What's important to us is just to see how we're going to meet these challenges. Through Competencelift 2020, we put off well and well, 1.6 billion. kr in the 2018 state budget. This has to do with some of what I mentioned in my main post: to build up knowledge, to make responsible and not least to put patient safety in the center. For this with crew, which is taken up here: if we continue as we do now, without taking hold and without thinking again, we will have to use one of three of our young people who attend high school, in the care and care sector. I am absolutely convinced that we – cross-politically – agree that it is not possible to achieve, so we need to take new action. To recruit enough personnel, we need to have a good professional environment, it has to be attractive to work in the sector, the individual has to use his or her resources, it has to be good management, and it's not going to get under his or her chair that it has to pay off working inconvenient hours. We have to talk about the profession, instead of talking it down. With regard to the specific question of whether we have funds out in the municipalities to be able to pay and serve the sector, I would say that we have it, yes. In 2016-2017, municipalities had an exceptional increase in both tax revenue and resources available. However, the individual city or local government must also give priority to the right. How do they spend the money? How do they apply care and care measures to recruit enough people to work in the sector? It is then important to look at the different measures that I mentioned, but it is also important to look at alternative, voluntary tournaments. We look at the studies that have been done, for example. long-term benefits. It reduces the stress on employees, creates continuity and flexibility in work and gives more time to patients – and it must be an important objective. Positive effects have also been seen on recipients of services in terms of greater continuity and security for the elderly. We also see a reduced use of sedatives and coercion, which I know the interpellant is also concerned about. There has been less exhaustion, more time for activities and better sleep. The bonus is also a number of full-time jobs and a reduction in sick leave among employees. If not looking at alternative tournaments in this picture is a win-win situation, I don't know what it is. I know only one thing, and that's that we have the goal of solving these challenges, but we have to do it together with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1182	Incorrect pharmaceutical use is an important theme. We know that medicines are used incorrectly, and sometimes they are used too much and unnecessarily, by both younger and older users. Medicine can save lives, prevent serious diseases and alleviate pests, but used errors can also cause plague, disease and death. First of all, let there be no doubt: the Advance Party and the government take patient safety for the most serious and have been working on a patient safety strategy for almost four years. Co-ordination of lists of medicinal products, proper medical use in hospitals, proper use of medicinal products in the home, patient safety management and improvement work are key areas of the strategy. Sykepleien's survey, to which the representative Karin Andersen referred, asked several questions, including questions that give personal answers, depending on who you are as a person. For example, the study showed that 25 pst. by the nurses, they believe that too much anxiety and sleep medication is being used in their workplaces. What about the remaining 75 pst, do they think this is not the case? When asked if the nurses have unnecessarily given anxiety and sleeping medication because of lack of time, 15 pst answers. ‘yes, daily’ or ‘yes, weekly’, 16, 8 pst. ‘yes, monthly’ and 68 pst. ‘less than monthly’ or ‘no, never’. Most care services are provided 24 hours a day. Once in a while, employees get sick without being hired, and the service continues with reduced strength. It may increase the use of sedatives or anaesthetics. What is also important to include here is that more patients themselves ask for extra drugs, not because they have no one to talk to, but because they have an inner turmoil and/or addiction. This is also evident in the study. More than a third of nurses respond that they have often met patients who obviously have a dependency problem associated with sedative drugs. It's also important to remember that for some, for example, dentures, you have to be careful about giving these kinds of drugs. The effect can quickly become the opposite and can cause more anxiety. Others are totally dependent on strong medications, as well as any medicine. The researcher Bettina Husebø says that 20 000 sick homes in Norway have a combination of daily pain and dementia. They can't say from, and they're suffering in silence. In Sykepleien’s study, more than half of them agree with or agree with the claim: ‘I wish the doctors were more restrictive in prescribing anxiety and sleeping medications.’ Similarly, many respond that they agree with or agree with the claim: ‘In my workplace, we are actively working to limit the use of anxiety and sleep medications.’ With regard to this theme, the government has taken important steps. The review of medicinal products was required by the Regulation on medicinal products management for healthcare professionals and establishments. In addition, in 2017 we established a new regulation on management and quality improvement. This Regulation, together with an adviser from the Directorate-General for Health, shall help to ensure that all parts of the healthcare system have a management system that ensures systematic work on quality improvement and patient safety. But regulations and guides need to be followed up in practice, and then it is important that it reaches the extreme, those who meet the users. I agree with the interpellant that we get important signals from this survey. We need to have transparency about both unwanted events and what we succeed in. It is fundamental in patient safety and quality improvement work. A feedback from some nurses that everything is not yet as it should be, must be taken with the greatest seriousness. That's how we get better health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1201	First, I want to say that I hope it's Friday and fine out there that makes it impossible for more people to participate in this debate, because I think that's quite disappointing, but thanks to those who do. When the Council of State says that the municipalities in 2017 had good revenues, that is correct, but it was one-time income. No responsible municipality can hire and mannounce on the basis of one-off income, for that was the case. That's what the government says also about the municipal economy for 2019. Yes, there will even be a drop to next year. It is true that you can work more efficiently, smarter and all these other bottles, ‘think new’, ‘new grip’, as the council says, but those in care every day tell us that there are too few people at work. It's too few to share a heavy responsibility with, which also makes people sick, and that this work is not attractive. One of the most important things we can do, I think, if we actually want to recruit people into these important professions, which in a way bear the ethics of well-being, is to ensure that they do not have to commit violence against their professional ethics as often as they clearly have to do. This is not new. We've been getting these messages for a very long time. There is a need for a standard of manpower where we say something about the kind of competence and manpower that must be present in the municipalities. It also needs the majority of the population and the government to be willing to finance it. It's a value choice. For SV, that option is easy. There's enough money in this country. The richest of us need not more billions in tax relief, but in the care and care of the sick, whether it's in the specialist health service or it's in the community health service, more is needed. Money is needed for both competence and to have time to provide the care that is needed. So long I've lived that I know that if you get help in a critical situation in your life, you actually get faster on your legs. Also many older people can get on their legs incredibly well again, sailing for quite heavy diseases, if they get good care and care and get time to talk to someone about what they're afraid of. I am disappointed that a government that has provided an elderly minister has not fought any more to get money to make sure that the care of the elderly will be good enough, as the elderly deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1214	I share the view of the interpellant that it is very sad that there are no more people involved in the debate. One could expect such an important area to engage much more. The use of medicines is an important debate, which I believe we must have at regular intervals. I am therefore pleased that Mr Andersen's representative has put this on the agenda today. Time necessity is not a medical or medical justification for the provision of medicinal products. Giving medicines because you do not have time to take care of yourself is contrary to the principle of the safety of the law. I hope those who experience this will avail themselves of their right of appeal and the right to alert, so that the supervisory authorities can assess these matters. If we can't get this out and get it lifted, it won't be possible to grasp it either. That must be the first thing that happens, that one gives a message as a single person and says, "Do you know what?" This is not good. We can't have it that way. We've talked a lot about funds, and the municipalities actually have to give priority to the most important thing. The funds given to municipalities over the municipal budget are not one-off appropriations. In the budget for this year, there's an extra pot of $4 billion. kr that goes to the municipalities. When the municipalities have such a good economy, you have to look at how they use the money they get. Other funds, linked e.g. to: The reform Life throughout life, was also called for. There is a reform to be addressed by the Storting during the year. But this is what we're going to get back to when we're working on budgets, so it would be very early to have funds for Life all our lives, which takes inwards very much of what the interpellant has taken up, and how we're going to solve it. The government has done a great deal to strengthen municipal health and care services. The local economy has been strengthened, as I mentioned, and the number of annual works has increased. Efforts such as Competencelift 2020 have contributed to increased competence and to further training. Other initiatives, such as the Patient Safety Programme and Demenplan 2020, have focused on patient safety and treatment adapted to each individual patient. I am committed to developing measures that can replace drug use and provide better care. This is why, among other things, there is a promise to: environmental treatment and nutrition as important measures in the quality reform of the elderly, Life throughout their lives. Together with Minister of Health and Care, Bent Höie, I will continue to follow developments in the use of medicines, and we will continue the dialogue with the Medical Association on this important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1231	The interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1249	User-controlled personal assistance, abbreviated BPA, was rights-linked from 1 January 2015, after many years of effort and struggle, I would say, from the organisations of disabled people. In the last few months, various evaluation reports have been made on the development of BPA after the rating ceremony. The Ministry of Health and Welfare’s own evaluation has been carried out by the Rokkan Centre, and it is said here.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Our conclusion is that the right-holding can be characterised as far as a conditional success. It is a conditional success assessed against concrete objectives set by the authorities for the right-holders, not least for non-discrimination, but also in the light of the evolution of the number of users, in the number of municipalities with BPA users and the evolution of the number of complaints.’;» KS has also carried out an evaluation of BPA, as among others. demonstrates different expectations for the content and organisation of BPA between municipalities and applicants for BPA and organisations representing the target audience. Furthermore, experience reports have been received from several organisations of disabled people, showing that the expectations of organisations and their members for BPA have not been met by the practices currently being carried out. One of these experience reports has been carried out by the Norwegian Handicap Association. A survey of members who have been granted BPA services both before and after the retention of their rights demonstrates developments. This experience report shows that the number of persons granted BPA has decreased after the right-holding and that the number of hours allocated to persons has also been reduced. Furthermore, this experience report shows some developments that we need to take seriously, in the light of the Storting's assumptions at the time of the adoption of the rating. There may seem to be an increase in municipal control of what each supervisor spends on agreed hours. According to this experience report, it is 60 pst. which, after the right-holders’ confirmation, considers that municipalities limit how individuals can use their assigned hours and that municipalities will determine the tasks for which the BPA user will use the assistant. Among those who had been granted the BPA before the rights fixation, there were 48 pst. that experienced these constraints, that is, a difference of 12 percentage points. The experience report also shows that there are very many complaints about the first decision. Among the 245 members of the Norwegian Handicap Association who answered the questionnaire, there were 31 p.m. who replied that they had to complain about the decision. It is also known that, at the time of the first appeal, the county councillors are, or more rarely, reversing the municipal decisions in fact more than 40 pst. of the cases. A report from the Health Directorate carried out by Rambøll in 2010 showed that BPA was important for education and work. It appears from that report that among BPA users over 18 years of age, there was a significantly higher proportion with completed university or higher education than among the disabled. 33 pst. by BPA users, at 23 pst. among people with disabilities in general. Unfortunately, in the experience report, there are also stories about people who had to finish studies because they did not get the required number of BPA hours. As we all know, education is traditionally crucial to the possibilities of work. I think there is reason to recall that when the Storting passed the BPA Court, a unanimous Health and Care Committee stated: ‘The Committee supports the government’s vision of a society in which everyone can participate and shares the view of user-driven personal assistance as a contribution to achieving the objective of an active and as independent life for people with disabilities. The Committee points out that user-driven personal assistance is an alternative way of organising the provision of practical and personal assistance to disabled persons and the need for assistance in everyday life, both inside and outside the home. [[...]] The user has the role of supervisor and assumes responsibility for organisation and content according to his own needs. Within the framework of the decision and the rules of the labour market, the user may direct what the assistant is to do and at what times and where the assistance is to be provided. The role of the manager gives the user influence over his or her own life situation. The aim is to contribute to the user's being given an active and as independent life in spite of disability.» The Committee further stated: «The Committee will stress the importance of clear guidelines, so that the scheme is as similar as possible in municipalities.» The evaluation reports presented indicate that we did not get there as the Stortinget intentions were, and that there is also a wrong path. The key issue is whether we have set up the necessary and proper means to achieve the Storting intention and decision. I know that there is a debate going on in and among disability organisations and providers of BPA on what measures are needed to make BPA a good tool for achieving maritime and community participation for people with disabilities. I think there are many reasons to focus on how BPA is practised and works for those for whom it is for, almost three and a half years after the Stortinget made its decisions about rights fixing – therefore this interpellation. I do not have clear answers to what are the best solutions, but I want dialogue with everyone who sees the situation as a user, and – I want to add – those who are authorities in this context. So how does the Council of State think that BPA law should be managed, and what means does it need to achieve the Storting's intention with this right?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1282	The system of user-controlled personal assistance, that is, BPA, is a system that engages many people. That's good. The big commitment is that we get to discuss difficult issues in a good way. If there is a scheme that has been much discussion lately, it is the BPA scheme. I know that BPA means a lot to those who have a system that works well, and there are even more people who want a BPA scheme outside the municipalities. According to the evaluation, a user who received BPA while on retirement says that: ‘The scheme is invaluable in enabling me to continue to live an active life with freedom of involvement in society? and organisational life. I can make my own choices in everyday life, and I don't want to ask for help much less – which strengthens self-esteem and self-image, as well as gives a certain freedom and space of action in my own life." For those with disabilities and a high need for assistance, BPA means much for the ability to work, take education and live an active and independent life. In the municipalities where the real capacity to use the BPA system in collaboration with users provides mastering and opportunities. It was precisely what was the reason for attaching rights to this system – the desire to ensure people with a high need for practical assistance better opportunities to take responsibility for their lives and well-being. I understand very well that disabled people want the same opportunities as everyone else to live an active life. I think we should stretch far to achieve this. At the same time, a difficult issue is facing, which is becoming increasingly important when there is a great shortage of resources, namely the extent to which the public service obligation should extend. Here we are at the heart of the debate on the BPA system: what is the BPA system today? But not least: what should it be? I have followed the debate over time. We've been to various events to listen to users and organisations. We get letters and e-mails from users, relatives and other stakeholders, who tell us about good and also bad experiences with BPA. We have also received reports of the rights ceremony from ULOBA, Norway's Handicap Association and KS. We get a good insight into what reality looks like through the follow-up evaluations, reports and recordings. The perceptions are many and bursting. ULOBA tells of the high expectations of the unfulfilled right-holders and of a scheme that does not function as the equality tool for which the Independent Living movement has fought. Norway’s Handicap Association points out that there is a great deal of distance between the intentions of the scheme on equality and social inclusion and the reality that disabled people encounter. They believe that the development is going in the wrong direction after the retention of rights and that the assistance needs in many important areas are not being met. KS believes that Norwegian municipalities extend far to comply with the rights of the BPA scheme and indicates that the vast majority of applications for BPA are granted. The Ministry’s follow-up evaluation shows that most users are satisfied with the BPA scheme. They believe that the scheme contributes to social participation and autonomy, but more people experience it as a demanding job manager. It also shows that several users want more hours, and that too low hours reduce the ability to meet targets for more community participation and activity. I tend to say that the more knowledge we have about the BPA system, the better basis we have for taking the right steps to secure disabled people with active and independent lives. At the same time, I have to admit that it is challenging that the reports and feedback are drawing such a vague picture of today's situation. At the same time, the description of reality shows that there has been a gap in expectations between national expectations and local commitments. The BPA scheme is a way of organising already allocated service. It's an important moment. The scheme is not a service in itself, and it triggers no right to services other than those which the user would otherwise have been entitled to. The Norwegian Handicap Association writes this about the fact that the allocation of hours to the BPA scheme is equivalent to the services previously provided by a BPA scheme: ‘It would have been unproblematic if the traditional services or services provided to the person before BPA met the needs to participate in society. But everyone knows that the traditional services do it to a very small extent." When building something around existing services, the framework around these services will continue to exist, for example: the legal framework for social or health care services. This includes, inter alia: that the municipalities are not obliged to provide services outside the municipality. Thus, it may be difficult for users to take the BPA assistant on a cabin, to a study site in another municipality or to other activities located outside the municipal border. It also means that the requirement of soundness could affect who can obtain a BPA scheme and the services and needs that can be put into such a scheme. It is therefore important that we look at the framework we want to surround the scheme. This will again provide some answers to the questions I mentioned in the introduction, namely what the BPA scheme is today, and what it should be. Then I would also like to mention this with complaints to the County, as the representative here addresses. I would like to emphasise first of all that it is good that users have access to complaints, and that they use this option if they believe that they have not received the services they require, or that there is something wrong with the service offer. This is important because, through the review procedure, the framework and content of the right are drawn up. When the representative indicates that these figures may be somewhat high, it is important to remember that this is a relatively new scheme. We therefore need to understand that there will be a need to clarify the content of the right provision, and that some municipalities may be wrong at first. In the long term, the complaint procedure at the County of County is likely to lead to a more similar practice among municipalities, so that the complaint figures do not necessarily need to be a sign of danger. The fact that we have different treatment outside the municipalities, I am extra busy. That's also the message I get when I travel around talking to users. When you talk across the board, based on which municipalities you are in, you experience that you get different answers to different offers. We're not going to have it that way. I have received several suggestions from users, individuals and organisations about ways to change the scheme, for the benefit of users. Norway’s Handicap Association believes that the right must be extended and strengthened. The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and ULOBA believe that the BPA system must be out of the way of health legislation, and this is one of several possibilities the government and the ministry are now assessing. We're going to draw up a way forward for the BPA system, but it's important that we don't rush. We need to take the right steps to ensure that the system of user-led personal assistance works as we want it to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1320	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I agree that this is a very complex subject. The Council of State focuses on the need to find out what this system should be, but I would say that we have said something about it far by the way, both in law and otherwise. The council says we're going to draw up a way forward, and spend time on it, but we can't spend too long. My aim is not to criticise one or the other party for the fact that, so far, BPA law is a ‘conditional success’ to use the ministry’s own words. A lot can be demanding for different reasons. Nevertheless, I would like to raise questions about the state governance of the municipalities, in several ways, in this field in order to realise the Storting's intentions – and regardless of which municipality you live in when you need the BPA scheme. The role and authority of the State is important here. We have what I would call a strong law, which is clarified by circulars. Nevertheless, many of the refusals to apply for BPA are such that the municipalities in question must be aware that they are illegal, according to Norwegian Association for Developmentally Disabled People, NFU, with which I, together with the Norwegian Handicap Association, have had dialogue. In appeal proceedings, the County of County has the power to set aside decisions and to ask municipalities to comply with comments from County State. But the County can also reverse decisions, which is far more rare for state officials to make. When the municipality's decision is repealed by the State, that means that the municipality must take a new decision, and it has almost become so that the person who endures the longest is the one who wins the case, claims the NFU. We have to do something about this. I would like to hear the views of the Council of State on that. In a press release, my good committee colleague, Erlend Larsen, from the Right Party of Government, has stated that the government will come up with something about BPA during the autumn of 2018. Is that what the Council of State really says, or is she further out in time? As I am informed, none of the organisations concerned have been invited to talks or any other form of dialogue with the government or with the political leadership of the Ministry of Health and Health about this. So I'm asking how the Council of State intends to involve users' organisations in its assessment of what is important and necessary grip on the development of BPA. User organisations note that in some cases the law and regulations do not seem to be enough. They have requested instructions to further clarify what BPA is and what the local authorities' obligations are to the individual user granted BPA, so that the legal certainty of the individual is strengthened. Is the Council of State assessing regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1335	I fully agree with the inter-pellant that we have now received input from the different organisations, users, etc., and that, when we are going to land and look at what measures, what schemes are going to solve the challenges that we are familiar with here, we should also include them and look at them in a broad way. That means that I want to do this in a good quality way, and – now we are at the beginning of June – I also want to make progress in it. Because I am quite clear that I see the need to align the BPA scheme with the needs of users as much as possible. In what form it's going to come in with respect to rights fixing, how we involve the County, and how we get the municipalities to recognise the responsibility they have, we have to look at. But I am absolutely convinced that a cross-political collapse, which has also taken the decision, is with us in the process of resolving this. So I'll come back to this when we know how to make the necessary changes, the evaluation that needs to be done, and together with the Stortinge, prepare what will benefit users best.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1342	I want to start by commending the interpellant for raising a matter that means a lot to a lot of people. I am still receiving enquiries from frustrated disabled people who say that the municipality they live in does not provide satisfactory BPA services. There are also many municipalities that do not understand what BPA should be and offer a completely different offer from what people with disabilities ask or need. User-controlled personal assistance shall provide disabled persons with equal opportunities for participation in school, work and leisure activities. The assistant shall be the user’s prolonged hands – as the disabled person needs assistance – so that the user is more and better managed on his own life situation. BPA is simply an equality tool that gives disabled people the opportunity to take control of their own lives and to participate in all the arenas of society in the same way as all of us. BPA is an important tool for the disabled and makes it possible to study or participate in the labour market. And as Mr. Hagebakken of the Workers' Party said, disabled people also have a higher drop-out percentage in the school than in the health care sector, which is likely to be related to having too little access to assistants – which is particularly regrettable. The organisation Uloba and the Norwegian Handicap Association have carried out each of their studies indicating that disabled people receive too few assistant hours, that they receive assistance only to meet basic needs, and that the scheme does not allow for active leisure or social participation. The reports also show that the municipalities offer a very different offer. This is very unfortunate and not in line with the intentions behind the arrangement. Some municipalities misunderstand what BPA is, and solve it with home help. Disabled people are not patients – they just don't have full mobility. BPA is a service where the disabled person is the head of staff. It's a service where private solutions are probably as good as municipal ones. Nor is it the municipality to decide when and what to use the assistant. User-controlled personal assistance means that the disabled person has his/her own permanent assistant, for which he/she is responsible. The user recruits the assistant himself and is responsible for teaching him or her. Within the assigned hour, the user decides which tasks the assistant is to perform, and the user is the one who sets up the assistant's work plans. Overall, this provides greater freedom of choice and independence for those in need of services. As a result of misunderstandings in some municipalities, many disabled people will shift the scheme out of health law. They want to make it clear that the BPA scheme is not a healthcare service but a release tool. Other people with disabilities believe that there is nothing wrong with legislation, but that it is the practice of the law that is the challenge. The municipalities are responsible for providing a good BPA offer. When the BPA scheme was duly attached in 2015, the municipalities received 300 million. to compensate for the increased costs. The following year, the grant increased by 205 million. kr. This is money to make everyday life better for the disabled, which the municipalities should respect. To underline this, the Minister of Health and Welfare sent a letter to all the country’s rapporteurs in 2017, inviting the municipalities to provide the disabled with the service they should have. Unfortunately, several municipalities reject applications for BPA, despite the fact that it is obvious that the disabled person fulfils the criteria set. This tends to cause parents, who already have a high burden, to have to fight to get a statutory right. It is very regrettable and critical of the municipalities concerned. The public should not wear out disabled people and their relatives, but support and help them to manage themselves – as BPA is supposed to be. The extraordinary burden creates great problems for many families, while the municipalities that train the applications save on their own considerable amounts for every year that goes. This is very worrying and so worrying that the state should consider reclaiming the amount that the municipalities have failed to spend on the people the money has been allocated. I am therefore looking forward to the Council of States coming back with experience, so that we can look further at what we can do to get better BPA solutions for the disabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1363	I want to start by thanking the representative Hagebakken for raising a very important issue. It was a great joy in 2015, when this scheme was passed, among all those who depend on help to function normally in society – in order to take education, in order to be in work, in order to get out of the house to participate in leisure activities and what we, who do ourselves, take for granted. This is simply about an opportunity to live a life. There are many who are fighting a fight against their municipality, who are complaining, and who in the meantime – waiting for the help they need – must use friends, girlfriends, spouses and family to simply manage to have an almost normal life. The question is what all those who don't have it uses. It's pretty obvious that part of them probably won't be allowed to live a life, like all of us. I've met one of them, Christi in Vardø. Now, unfortunately, the focus was on me and the representative Hoksrud being disfellowshiped by the rapporteur – and that was probably an image of how Christ has been treated in this municipality. The most important thing in this case is simply the picture of how different municipalities handle such cases. Christi lived in Bamble. There she got a lot of help, she was satisfied with the offer the municipality gave, she felt allowed to live a life, like everyone else. She met the love of Vardø, moved there with assurance that she would get help when she got there. First she got nothing, then she got a little after a while, but still that day it is far away from the level of Christ needed in order to live a good life without the dearest and her friends having to stand up for everything. It shows the difference between the municipalities, and I believe that it should not be. Therefore, I am pleased that the Council of State is so clear that the government will work to look at changes to the legislation and follow up on this matter, because this is about the fact that caring people – who are disabled, who need help to get their everyday lives around – will be able to live a good life. So in the meantime, while the government is working on this, we're totally dependent on the municipalities taking their inhabitants seriously, the municipalities meeting them with respect, and the municipalities are taking the signal when the county tells us. The case of Christ is a good example of this. The municipality was told that they had to look at the matter again, and so far it has not led to anything. That is why I hope that everyone who sits in the hall – and there are several parties that are not represented, and I realize that – after this, informs their local politicians that they have to respect the law that is in force, and take responsibility for the fact that their citizens are given the offer they are entitled to. This is about the legal certainty of the users. It's about rights that need to be guaranteed. We have to work for it both at local level and at national level, because we can't have it the way it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1378	Now there are several people who have been up here and said that we can't have it like that, and then you're really wondering what to do. It's not that much to worry about. What needs to be done immediately is to define how this should be interpreted in the municipalities, as SV has proposed – and as the Progress Party and the Right have voted down. So the differences we see now, you can fix if you want, but you haven't wanted to. In addition, there have been so severe restrictions on who gets and related to health services and their measurement. Everyone up here clearly shows that they realize that this arrangement is something else than that. But there are some demands that make a sheep too small, and not that you need to be able to live a seagoing life. User-controlled personal assistant is a tool, not a healthcare service. BPA should be moved to popular security, as SV suggests – that there will be a right in popular security paid by the state and not depending on the municipality in which you live. Then you also get away from everything that the Council of State was up here and said – that one law is like that, and the other one is like that, and maybe one can't take BPA when one is going to learn somewhere else, or one is going to do something in another municipality or state. Then these problems with the technical in the law are gone. Of course, if you get a wheelchair, you can bring it right where you want. Then it's clear that it depends on whether you have a work contract with the assistant that contains this. So it's time for user-controlled personal assistants to become a right in public security, as other means are – because it's a tool. It's not about getting needed health care, it's about being able to live a seagoing life, doing the things that you can't sail, because you have a disability that makes you unable to do what you're doing. It's about having maritime regulation in your own life. I have received enquiries during the treatment of the municipal law case. We have local politicians who are elected to the local government, but who have to resign because they don't get user-controlled personal assistants to enable them to function. That's when I look a little bit to the debate we had, too, where the Council of State is up and says that those who experience failure in the system and lying there crying and not getting medication – or those who don't get user-led personal assistant – should say from the sea. The problem is that it's almost impossible for many of them. In the case of BPA, a lot of people are saying from, but they're not being heard. That's the problem. They say from both locally and centrally. But since the government has in general refused to make a regulation that shows how the municipalities are going to practice this, so that the rights are not reduced, at least on the basis of the level that is at present, this will continue, because the majority of the population and the government have put the most emphasis on the local maritime administration in this matter, not on the rights of those who need assistance in order to live a perfectly normal life and make the same choices in their lives as we others do. So I repeat: the government can immediately create a regulation that shows how the law of the day is to be interpreted, for all the municipalities – so that we get rid of this discrimination. Of course, they can also introduce different rules for the system, so that it gets better and can actually meet the needs of these people. They may do so in the budget of the harvest, and they may also propose in the budget of the harvest to transfer the entire scheme to the population so that it becomes a right of other means, for that is what it is. SV will propose it again, and I hope now that the representatives from the government parties who have been up here – and also the Workers' Party, who have had the floor in the case – agree with SV in this regard. Because this has to be done. We don't have to sit and scratch our heads anymore to figure out what to do -- we know what we can do. SV is going to suggest it, and I'm assuming that that's going to be the majority for the next time we take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1399	I would like to ask the Stortinget the same question that Mari Storstein asked Bent Höie in the documentary she put as a student on the documentary line at Lillehammer: What is freedom for you? For me who can bike and walk here, convey my thoughts, shape democracy, study what I want, work on what I want, visit my old mother, make the food I want, whenever I want, go to bed when it suits me, and get into all the outdoors because a staircase does not prevent me, it may be difficult to see the answer. For me, such freedom can quickly become a matter of course, but for many who need a BPA scheme, the situation is quite different. Today, the scheme is under health and care and is interpreted widely from municipality to municipality – yes, even from part of the city to part of the city of Oslo. In one municipality, it can be arranged for disabled people to realize themselves, study, leave the municipality, be the manager of everyday life, and even get into the facilities when they want to hang out with friends. In the neighbouring municipality you can end up in an institution, or experience getting a home help with very barely measured hours. In that municipality one will be isolated, losing the possibility of self-realization. Political participation will be a foreign word, and everything else that we see as a matter of course in democracy will be a distant dream. In the municipality of Kristiansand there are 91,000 people. In fact, there are as many disabled people as they say they would rather be in work, as in the whole of Kristiansand municipality, but they can't because of lack of organisation, according to Bufdir. Today's BPA system means that several Nordics are struggling with mental suffering because we who govern the country are unable to see them, are not listening properly and are not able to facilitate their dignity and their freedom. How all day would you, President, have done the job of the Presidential chair if you had a wheelchair? You had not come up there without assistance, for even the hall of power is not arranged. Make sure that the Stortinget was only adapted to mountain climbers, so that there was a climbing wall up in the Horizontal Hall instead of lifts and stairs. Didn't all of us then have trouble doing our job? Would we then perhaps understand how people who become disabled experience the meeting with society? Is it not then our condemned duty as elected representatives to facilitate the optimum functioning of people in this country? There is no one who deserves people to fall outside our society, as unfortunately many people do today. People fall outside despite the fact that we have committed ourselves to UN rights for people with disabilities, and we do not have a law that follows the commitments we have made. Then, for example: Miriam Ibsen, the disabled person, moved from home to another municipality for a few years ago, she had to quit politics. She was denied important help in the new municipality. How can we live with a system that makes Miriam, or several others with disabilities, say they can no longer participate in the policy, because they have moved from one municipality to another? So let's make the BPA universal, and let's follow up the intention that we all agree on in the agreement. To that end, we need a binding law that follows our promises, also to the UN. We in Norway have a way to go. The first thing we can do is look at whether there's health and care that's the right place to have the BPA system, or whether that's the opposite of today's policies that make people sick. Perhaps then national social security systems are a better place. At least we need more like Mari, the filmmaker, and Miriam, the local politician, in society – people who engage, who will create both film and politics. The least we can do then is to make sure that with such an internal drive to participate, they can use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1416	First, I would like to thank those who have taken part in the debate. We could have been more, but I hope that this interpellation – at least it was my intention – will be a small contribution to the proper review of this important right, so that what we have actually adopted in the Storting, and we have had many good goals, becomes a reality. As I see this evaluation carried out by the Ministry, this is particularly the case with a lack of non-discrimination that is being raised as a challenge. This is a matter which is basically really about people's freedom, but it is also about non-discrimination. When there is a lack of non-discrimination, it is difficult for a person to understand that something has been done about it without doing any national action. Then the question is, which national grip is the best? So SV has its solution here, but in addition, SV, as I did, also draws up the question about this: Is it necessary to have a regulation – regulation fixing? It is obvious that the law, which appears to be quite clear, and circulars are not enough. So I have to ask the council again: will she agree to consider a regulation, or how does she view it? So to the County's role: when it's round because the County repeals the decision, doesn't it reverse it, are we going to give the County more powers? That's when it concerns the old rapporteur in me, but «lell da gut!»: Should we consider whether somehow the County should be given a more straightforward mandate to make decisions? Or then time goes by, and this is a pretty tiring process, especially for the user. So I'd like to hear a comment about it, so we're going to red tape this right now, to use that expression. I think what I hear, promises well, and what comes here to the Stortinget, is hopefully pretty stuck in the fish and, to use a modern expression, makes a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1429	I think it has been a good debate. Although not so many have spoken, I still think there have been very good and many good views. I was directly encouraged by the interpellant as to whether I was also willing to consider a regulation. Yes, absolutely, I'm willing to look at everything. Because I think we're going to have this arrangement taken care of, and it's been a clear wish from this big business that this is a system that we all want, and then it's getting the municipalities on the team. I take seriously all the proposals we have received in connection with the scheme, which we believe can help to make the system as good as possible. Now the government is in this assessment process, and I therefore do not want to take an explicit position here and now on whether we will follow up the input from the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman that BPA should be out of health law. I also take with me the other views of the interpellant and also the representative from the SV's proposal, which was also linked to regulatory assessment. It is important for us now and also part of the debate we have had, to define what this scheme should contain when we see that the municipalities do not meet, or deliberately or unconsciously do not see the need in their municipality. Then we must also bear in mind that the latest evaluation report, which is now the basis of our assessments, came a short time ago. On the one hand, we see that the BPA scheme is an organisation of practical assistance, and thus may have a natural connection with healthcare, but we also see that a major shift in the scheme can now have the potential to affect established schemes that work well today. So there's a lot of consideration to take. But once again, I'm taking with me all the recordings. Now we're going to sit down and do a little bit of work, and then I hope we're going to get the Storting on so that we can land the BPA in the area that it's supposed to be, and that it can actually be used for the benefit of the users out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1441	The debate on substance is closed. Then 6 of you. The President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 7-9 is processed under one process. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1481	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 7-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1493	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1502	During the debate Freddy André Øvstegård has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with proposals for the closure of the Council of Broadcasting, District Programme Councils and the Sámi Programme Council in the context of the submission of proposals for a new Broadcasting Act. At the same time, the government is asked to submit a proposal for a change to the NRK poster, where the NRK is required to secure a complaint body without political ties and where the public has transparency of treatment. This body must reflect the current system of national, regional and Sami considerations.» Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1526	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1531	There are several others that have not been answered. We're resuming the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1547	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the appropriate return to Stortinget if it sees the need for amendments to the legislation for the use of electric motors on water below 2 square kilometres.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1571	Proposal No. 1, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Law on Motor Traffic in Outland that allow the use of electric boat engines with limited power in water of less than two square kilometres.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1598	The Socialist Left Party and the Greens have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1614	During the debate, Lars Haltbrecken has presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Environmental Party of the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a supplementary National Park Plan for the Storting by 2020, with proposals for new national parks, and with an assessment of the extension of existing national parks, which can ensure that a representative selection of Norwegian nature is protected as national parks.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1638	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1643	We should take that vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1659	In the course of the debate, 11 proposals have been put forward in all. It's proposal No 1, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Environmental Party Dei Green proposed no. 2 and 3, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party proposed no. 4-9, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposed no. 10 and 11, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Green Party Proposal No. 4-9, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal to make Osloma an international pioneer area for restoration of wild nature, intact ecosystems and experiences.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate and work to establish larger, coherent national parks and protection areas across borders in the Nordic region, in particular in the North Callot.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for work to be done to restore areas with species-rich deciduous forests in the area around the Oslofjorden and on the Sørlandskysten.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the loss of wild and uninterventional nature in Norway and to develop a plan to increase the proportion of this nature in the coming years.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a system in which the government provides landowners with payments for particularly important ecosystem services requiring active care, or which restricts the possibility of other income, including the transition to ploughing with a view to restoring species-rich multi-annual forests, the maintenance and increase of biodiversity in cultural landscapes and the restoration of rare or endangered species.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that restoration of nature and diversity of species in and along watercourses is a central objective of future conditional audits.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1717	Proposal No. 2 and 3, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to provide in an appropriate manner a stepping-up plan to ensure a large increase in the number of priority species and active action plans for these species and an increase in the number of selected habitat types.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a big message containing a plan for large-scale restoration of wild nature, intact ecosystems and greater experience in Norwegian nature – in line with Norway’s Aichi commitment to restore 15 pst. of our degraded ecosystems.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1739	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Environment Party of the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals for better protection of deltas, wetlands and other coastal shallow waters. Fair and appropriate compensation mechanisms for the bonding of privately owned areas must be elucidated.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1754	Proposal No. 10 and 11, from the Greens' Greens' Environment Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to initiate work aimed at establishing Norway’s first national park with a ban on hunting all species, including predators.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for steps to be taken to preserve and restore cultural landscapes both through reforms in agricultural policy and through targeted measures to restore particularly valuable and species-rich cultural landscapes such as the cultural condition of mowing and grazing, lauveng, gardening, pasture and harvest forest.’ The Socialist Left has already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1785	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Environment Party The Green Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1797	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1802	We're fixing it up. Then there are 54 representatives who have the voice for the recommendation, and 43 who have the voice against it. The recommendation from the Committee is therefore attached.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1811	Case No. 7–9 is the second time the law is handled and applies to Acts 58 to 60. There is no comment suggestion. Thus, the law of the Storting is passed on the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-01.ana.ud511e1827	There is no record available. This way, the map is ready for processing today. The President will remind everyone that Monday is the start of the grand meeting at 4 p.m. 10th@item: inlistbox It's this president who's supposed to be president then, so everybody has to come. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
