ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e59	The representatives Martin Kolberg, Ingarill Olsen, Ruth Grung, Grunde Almeland, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Solfrid Lerbreck, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Heidi Greni, Jorodd Asphjell and Stein Erik Lauvås, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: on Thursday 12 April from the representative of the Björna Moxnes, by the representatives Svein Roald Hansen and Heidi Nordby Lunde, on leave on 18 and 19 April, both to take part in a trip with the EFTA Parliamentary Committees to Argentina and Uruguay, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Oslo: Mads Kirkebirkeland and Seher Aydar For Eastfold County: Arve Sigmundstad
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e136	Seher Aydar is present and will take the seat. The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e143	On behalf of the representatives Kjersti Toppe, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I would like to make a proposal that the maximum number of dots before the withdrawal of appropriations should be eight, not twelve.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e148	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 1 and 2 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e181	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e190	There are long headlines to the issues. These matters concern changes in the Road Traffic Act. This is primarily a follow-up to the Treatment of Prop by Storting. 144 S for 2015-2016, to include vehicle directives in the EEA Agreement. This requires changes to the Road Traffic Act. It is also intended to modernise the rules on authorisation and supervision, irrespective of the requirements of the EEA Agreement. This Regulation regulates recording equipment in heavy duty vehicles in order to verify compliance with driving and rest periods for professional drivers. Reducing the occurrence of infringements of driving and rest periods is important both to protect drivers and to increase road safety. But it is also important to promote a level playing field. We know that our transport industry is under a special pressure from non-resident carriers. One should also endeavour to reduce the administrative costs of transport undertakings and control authorities with simplification. This Regulation also applies to third-generation tachographs to be connected with satellite navigation and ITS technology. A Joint Committee shall encourage the approval of Decision No: 122/2016 concerning the inclusion in the EEA Agreement. The matter has also been at the hearing of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, which is in line with the draft opinion of the Transport Committee. With regard to the economic and administrative consequences of this, it is not possible to quantify concretely. The proposition states that this will be clarified in the context of the establishment of a regulation. The minority, the Labour Party and the Centre Party in this case have chosen to listen to the hearing bodies, who are concerned about the consequences of the changes in the roadside inspection fee and the workshop approval fee. The minority also considers that it is unfortunate that those currently approved may lose it as a result of new legislation. Although a transitional regime is in place, we choose to listen to those hearings that point out that they may have unintended consequences. So I'm going to deal with the minority proposals, no. 1-3, and recommends that a unanimous committee be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e209	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e214	Right supports the setting as it stands, both the magnification decision part and the law part. The proposal improves the control of roadside vehicles, both Norwegian and foreign, in compliance with safety and environmental requirements. This leads to safer travel along the Norwegian road. When Stortinget adopted Prop. 144 S for 2015-2016 in November 2016, the Stortinget agreed to the approval of the EEA Committee’s decision to include three directives on common rules for roadworthiness testing of motor vehicles in the EEA Agreement. The aim of the Directive is to strengthen the control of compliance with the safety and environmental requirements in use as a common objective. In order to implement the directives in Norwegian law, it is necessary to amend the regulation of road traffic laws on roadside control and of railway works. The amendments proposed by the Ministry of Transport provide authorities with better opportunities to control the industry and prevent illegal work on motor vehicles. The legislative proposal amends Section 32 of the Road Traffic Act, which states that infringements of the rules on running and sleeping time laid down in Norway may be sanctioned in Norway, irrespective of the country in which the offence occurred, and that this also applies to businesses. It'll give you a safer way. Furthermore, the proposal concerns new regulations on the approval, competence and supervision of workshops carrying out periodic checks on running gear, and new requirements on the competence, stability and reputation of inspectors and technical leaders, both in control bodies and in workshops. The proposal also provides for the recognition and supervision of training establishments that are required to train control staff and the competence of those who are required to approve and supervise. The Ministry of Transport also proposes changes to the Road Traffic Act on tachographs. The main objective of the new regulation is to reduce the number of offences, improve road safety, protect drivers and promote a level playing field. Proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, give the impression that the government's proposal also includes introducing a fee. Nothing in the proposition means that the Stortinget now adopts the introduction of a fee, and there are no plans to introduce such a fee. What's suggested in Prop. 8 LS for 2017–2018 is that the Road Directorate is given the right to impose a fee. This option is limited to self-cost, i.e. the additional cost of approving new workshops. Right, it seems reasonable that the State Road Service will be given the opportunity to charge for the costs they have related to this. No charges are imposed for regular road inspection or roadside inspection, but only on approval of new workshops. Proposal No. 3, from the same batches, refers to the new EU requirements for the competence of inspectors. Today's inspectors and technical leaders will be required to undergo further training as a result of the new competence requirements laid down by the Directive. This is necessary for the implementation of the EU Directive. When the EU adopts stricter requirements, we have three options: We need to implement some requirements. We do not need to implement some dependencies. Some requirements are quite reasonable, and they want us to implement – such as this authorisation requirement. It is not the case that the Workers' Party gives the impression that car workshops and their technical leaders who are currently authorised to carry out periodical driving control are ‘separated’ – as if something is happening overnight, as soon as the new requirements enter into force. The control bodies and technical leaders/controllers will be given reasonable time to arrange for such appropriate training. The Road Administration will draw up proposals for transitional arrangements. There is a long transition period, so that those who are already controllers should have the least possible load. Training of current controllers will be a reduced version compared to the training new controllers need to take. The industry itself is positive to the scheme. It is in the interest of all serious workshops that up-to-date knowledge, competence and quality are required. It would be a strange practice that one could get an approval forever, when we live in a world where technology develops fast, not least on running gear. It is then clear that the competence requirements also need to be changed and adapted in order to ensure a safe path. Right, therefore, supports the setting without modifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e256	The size has said yes to vehicle control directives earlier, and now there are changes to the laws relating to roadside control and to vehicle workshops. The amendments to the Road Traffic Act also apply to tachographs and driving and rest periods. The centre party clearly wants to support the serious Norwegian transport industry, and in the past, for example, we have gone in to reduce cabotage traffic, without having the government involved. We have called for effective responses to stop unprofessional carriers, for example by using stoppages, periodic penalty payments and more frequent checks. We want to protect drivers and road safety and to close out the unprofessional in order to promote a level playing field. Fortunately, the members of the Committee from the governmental parties took note of the alternative proposal by which we ask the government not to impose a vehicle inspection fee by road and the proposal not to impose a fee for the approval of workshops carrying out periodic vehicle checks. These were the proposals made by the representative Leirtrø. They say that the fees should be for the approval of new workshops. The Government Parties consider that it is not proposed to impose such fees to which we refer and that there are no plans for them. But in Prop. 8 LS, on page 8, the Ministry shall assimilate the legal base to lay down, where appropriate, rules on fees for the approval and supervision of control bodies, workshops, etc. with roadside control. Our experience is that the government likes to impose fees and charges, and the first thing I immediately think about is, for example, the death penalty, the air fares and the airline fee, which is very turbulent on the short-haul network. That's why we thought it necessary to make those kind of clarifications, so that people don't experience having to pay a fee to be stopped along the way. Otherwise, I hope that resources and arrangements will be made to stop unprofessional carriers, and that the possibility of crime being committed in other countries can be penalised and can be stopped in Norway. This will help make it easier for the serious Norwegian transport industry, which is under a very strong pressure. Of course, the centre party is voting for the proposals that we have agreed to promote, and for what the committee as a whole has agreed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e271	I will admit that SV has been somewhat in doubt in this matter, but we have now concluded, after careful assessment, that we support the minority and are part of the minority position. Vehicle checks are very important, both for road safety and for the environment. It's obvious. Nevertheless, the Swedish minority, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, belong in this case. To date, enforcement authorities can hold back dangerous vehicles, vehicles with serious deficiencies. They can be separated on the spot, and there may be shortcomings – defects, as we said. It also seems strange that the State should charge for something that the State itself imposes in some way, but above all we react to the fact that the requirements for car repair shops have retroactive effect. Yes, new technologies are developing, and workshops need to renew and update. It's quite obvious. But I thought maybe the Right had more faith in the market forces here, so that good knowledge and competence at the workshops would have competitive advantages, that they would win in the competition, and thus the entire industry would in some way update itself and gain higher skills. These are our main points, and I would recommend the proposals where SV is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e280	We've actually had a fantastic development in this respect, for example. the number of deaths in traffic in the last years. We haven't reached the zero goal, but it's still going down. One of the measures that have helped create this situation is, of course, that we have strict checks on the vehicles that are going on the road, and we are also good at checking the vehicles when they are in traffic. It is what competence both the workshops to do this EU control, and the people who are to stand in the checkpoints and accept these vehicles, are to have, we are dealing with here today. Then it's very important that we put this into life now, and I really hope that this can help improve the situation even more. Then I hear that some parties in this room are skeptical that you have a regulatory right to possibly charge some fees. It amazes me a little when I hear that Arne Nävra from SV says he has been in doubt. It doesn't help during the vote, it's either for or against. It is not so often we hear from SV that the drivers do not have to pay for the service provided to them, either for checks or for the workshop treatment – it is actually those who have to pay, and perhaps not just above the tax bill. I believe that the government has now put itself on a very sensible footing by making it possible to charge self-cost for new upgrades and new workshops when they are to be established. We need to make sure that they are in a proper condition to carry out the task. We can't relax on those demands.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e291	Having good, tidy conditions in the transport industry is important. Ensuring that a person has some common rules that are verifiable by the authorities is part of ensuring competition. Tachographs on-board vehicles contribute to ensuring that one complies with the driving and rest periods. But one has to control this at the same time because one knows that someone is trying to break the rules in order to gain an advantage in the market. If it's the basements that win, you destroy the whole market, and you make sure the serious are not viable. It's not a development we want. Similarly, road safety is at stake. Making sure that the vehicles are in good condition, that those involved in transport spend money on investing in the vehicles and do not wear them out in the hope of making more money, is also an important part of this. But also for private households, who have cars for transportation to and from work, etc., we need to ensure that the safety aspect is taken care of, that the requirements we have for vehicles to be able to do so are also checked. That is why EU control is an important part of that job. The changes in the rules proposed here are precisely about having permits and rules that enable us both to ensure the work with tachographs and to check that the workshops that fix and check our cars are in good condition. I think this is important and correct. With regard to roadside control, we have approximately quadrupled the control activities during today's government. It helps to ensure safer vehicles, but it also helps to ensure better competition. So when the Center Party criticizes us and gives the impression that everything is bad and wrong, also in this case, I just remind you of the effort that has actually been made, the rules that have actually changed, and the increased appropriations that have actually come. So we're going to use even more resources and be even smarter in the way we carry out these checks. It's by ensuring that you run risk-based control, where all those who historically tend to have everything in order are allowed to escape, while those with whom you have had problems before, or who give reason to believe that something is wrong, are stopped for control. It's good for those who have the way to work, and it also makes it possible for controllers to use their time where the risk to society is greatest. This is why both the tools that have been introduced in recent years, such as VaDIS, that have been digitised, and the tools that have been used to connect to foreign databases, are working to provide us with more information on both Norwegian and non-resident vehicles. There have been three proposals from the opposition, which give the impression that now everything is going to be expensive and much worse. I can just cancel it. All three proposals are really unnecessary, because the government has not planned to finance checks on the road. It is pointless to make proposals to stop something that is not planned to be introduced. But it is true that there is a basis for one in the future, if necessary, to have a charge on those vehicles that are so defective and missing that they require a lot of extra work, and simply have a cost recovery on it. It is actually designed for all those who have not done the job themselves, who have not fixed the vehicles, they should not just be able to relax an EU control to the public. We haven't planned to use this now, but this home opens up for it. I thought – at least until now – that everyone in this Chamber thought that those who do not take care of their vehicles, those who use technically poor vehicles in competition in the market, should actually both be fined and would like to be separated and what is worse. I still think that we really agree on that – the opposition proposal despite it. The same applies to workshop fees. No fee shall be paid to existing workshops. It is about those who will enter the market and who will have to be approved for the first time. There will be a fee. But we're talking about thousands, nothing more than that. Similarly, it is important to ensure that our inspectors are competent. Technological developments are accelerating, and ensuring that those who control our vehicles are involved in the swings is important. But it is also important that all those who have long experience are not asked to make new demands overnight. That is why there is a long transitional arrangement for this. Much of the knowledge they need to acquire during the transitional period can be acquired through data-based learning. Some of this has to happen physically, by simply working in a practical way and showing that the routines are in line with what it should be. But this is a very small number of hours, and we've spent a lot of time with the car industry just to get something that everyone says they can live well with. That is why the three proposals are really unnecessary, but I understand the concern, and I can confirm that this has already been done without the necessary adoption of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e312	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e317	The centre batch is clear that we do not want to impose a charge for roadside roadside inspection, nor for approval of workshops that carry out periodic vehicle checks. What makes me wonder is the distinction that the Council of State is trying to create between a fee for the approval of workshops and a roadside inspection fee. On page 8 of the proposal, it is quite clear that, in the same line, there is an opening for ‘to lay down rules on the fee for approval and supervision of control bodies, workshops, etc., and for roadside control’. It is the same in the proposal of the Ministry. I can't understand the division that the Council of State is trying to create.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e325	We have not planned to have a fee for roadside inspection. If one is stopped for control, it should not cost anything. It's easier than that. What the Center Party here is trying to create a conflict around is simply non-existent on the part of the government. If the Central Party still wants to hold a debate on it, it will be without a counter-debate, because we will not have a fee to stop for roadside control – done it. Nor shall we have a fee to ensure that the workshops that have existed for a long time – or were established yesterday – are approved for that matter. There is no fee for it – done with it as well. I record that there are artificial conflicts in the post that the representative had, when she gives the impression that now there are death taxes. I just remind you that today's government removed the inheritance fee, which the Center Party supported was going to exist, and that took in billions of dollars to the state. We're the ones who have removed the fees that the Centrette gives us the impression is cruel.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e332	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e339	Let me just say – as the rapporteur also said – that there is a unanimous committee behind the vote. It's an important message to get. So the disagreement may not be as big as the Minister of Transport gives the impression. And it's probably the Minister of Transport who makes this a bigger debate than it is. It is good that the government does not intend to introduce fees discussed from this pulpit. Then it is a little unnecessary for us to open up to have a warrant for a fee to be imposed. I thought I heard the Minister for Transport say that it could become topical that someone could get a fee in the NOKD class. Then there may be a chance that there will be something anyway, but I want to say that it is not the biggest matter. We agree on the main lines here, but we want to make it clear that we don't think it's right to impose those charges, if that's the case. I would also like to say a few words about minority proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox We are of course for car repair shops and their technical managers to have the necessary competence, both to operate a car repair shop and to carry out periodic vehicle inspection. The reason we're a little on the alert here is that over the years we've seen a lot of attempts at car repair shops and their technical managers getting their hands on a new and incomprehensible code. For a long time a few years ago, I worked on that matter. I can only mention as an example a car repair shop in the president's and my homestead, where the manager had been running a car repair shop for over 30 years, I think, who suddenly was in danger of losing the approval as a car repair shop. Here I would like to commend the Minister of Transport and the then Secretary of State, Bård Hoksrud, who settled in what seemed to be a major problem for many car workshops, i.e. they were in danger of losing their approval. So I just want to clarify: those who run periodic vehicle checks, the workshops and their technical managers, of course, need to be up-to-date and have new knowledge. But we also have to make sure that there is no incomprehensible regulation that causes people who have been driving car repair shops for many years, who can do this to the finger tips, lose their livelihood and the approval to operate a car repair shop or to run periodic vehicle control. Time of harm and based on historical experience, we wanted to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e348	I just need to clarify one more time that when I say we should not have a fee to be checked along the roads, I believe we should not have a fee to be checked along the roads. The Working Party and the Center Party are constantly in need of creating the impression that something wrong can happen if you just wait long enough. That kind of black paint strategy in the debate contributes very little. Now I've just said it again to emphasize what policy we're going to pursue. To the example that the representative Myrli finally took up, namely that there were some old workshop owners who had built up the skills to fix the car through long experience, but who, through new legislation that came into force in 2013, could lose their approval: just that example should be with and calm the nerves of people who think that this is a hidden agenda to make things more difficult. For it was just today's government that made sure that the work that had been done primarily during the previous government's watch did not get the results that the representative Myrli here pointed out. So we've shown that we've reworked problems that were created by regulatory politicians from other parties, problems that we thought were unreasonable. Therefore, the then Secretary of State Hoksrud made sure that it did not have the consequences it could have. In the same way, we will work together with the workshop industry and the transport industry in the years to come. We must ensure that there is a good regulatory framework at the bottom, but that it is practiced rationally, and that it does not impose unnecessary costs and restrictions on those who are honest and lawful. But we have to be tough on those who break the law, who operate unprofessionally, and who destroy the markets. This applies both in the workshop industry and in the transport sector. That is why there has also been established a separate crimping unit in Vegvesen, which now has additional capacity to go after the cellars, such as. have done that car repair shops, transporters and driving schools have received police research – because we now have the capacity to take those who are basements. This does not mean that we always manage to avoid people trying, but the risk of getting caught should be greater, and the sanctions when one is taken should be more stringent.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e357	I am not going to withdraw this debate, but the centre party, together with the other proposers, has made it clear that we do not want a charge for vehicle inspection along the road and for the approval of workshops, and that the technical managers of car repair shops should not lose their approval. The debate has led the government parties to ensure that they agreed, so I now expect – and request – that they also vote for our proposals. And then we're going to have a completely consistent magnification behind this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e362	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e378	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e387	As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for what gradually became a very comprehensive and good cooperation in the matter. Since the proposals for representatives contain partly identical proposals, we chose to deal with them in a common position within the Committee. There is no doubt that it became violent when the Metoo campaign came too fully in Norway – upsurges and upsurges from different professional groups in the media, a lot of focus in the social debate and in politics, and not least went into the talk among the people. Many, myself included, went from being people who have thought that we just have to deal with the existence of sexual harassment, and become angry – angry, and also sad, about other people's and their own small and large experiences through life that have negatively influenced more of career choices, working life, organisational environments and student life than a well-functioning and safe society should find itself in. Now we don't want it like this anymore. Metoo has set a new standard for how people with power and influence should behave. What was socially accepted in the past is no longer that. Sexual harassment is now having greater consequences. As rapporteur of the case, I am pleased that we bigots politicians are finally making our contribution to making it easier to prevent, raise awareness, guide and assist, and not least to deal with and defeat, sexual harassment. Because we have reached a settlement in which a unanimous committee is promoting three concrete proposals today. The first is to strengthen the guidance and assistance provision of persons who are subjected to sexual harassment. The offer shall be provided by the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. The second proposal is to ensure that sexual education at school includes bordering and respect for the borders of others. Prevention is important. The third proposal is to clarify how issues of sexual harassment are to be addressed in student studies or other relevant school studies. In total, this is the measure that will move us in the right direction. Although I am the case rapporteur and am pleased that the parties are agreed on some measures, I am somewhat disappointed on behalf of the Centre Party. For a while it seemed that we had secured a large majority when the Central Party, SV, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party agreed to introduce a low threshold offer to those who are subjected to sexual harassment, and that this was to be enforced from 2019. Gender equality and discrimination should then be empowered to provide redress and compensation in matters of discrimination legislation, as they already do in discrimination cases because of ethnicity, gender and disability. This was the action most pointed out to be the most important one when the committee was consulted. After the metoo campaign, of course, LDO has experienced a great deal of sexual harassment, and the Center Party believes that LDO is both capable and competent to assist those who are subjected to sexual harassment, as they are in other harassment cases. We should therefore like this offer to be put in place quickly. After a loose proposal in the room today, the action will not come until 2020, and I have to admit that I am a little disappointed that the Christian People's Party and the government parties choose to take out this low-threshold offer, an offer that is requested by several, especially by those who work in the field. It probably has a lot to do with the fact that one hearing body was opposed to this measure — just one, namely the NHO, who thought that sexual harassment was so different from other harassment in the workplace that here those who warn must rather go the way of justice in the interests of those against whom it is warned. Since our minister in the field was quick to defend NHO's views on the matter, it may have become more difficult to listen to others. I don't have to worry about it any more. In any case, the low-threshold offer will be put in place in 2020, as we in the Centre Party will vote in a subsidiary way for the postponement proposal that has been promoted today – later. In a day like this, I have to be happy about what we actually get. But yet, in my opinion, we have a great job to do. Personally, I'm going to react and act completely different from before when I see, hear about or experience sexual harassment or meet people who still hareble with methotrexate, and I know I'm not alone about that. But there's a little bit left before we're in the goal. We are really talking about fairly large socio-cultural changes that need to be made, among other things. in the field of culture and business. There is a responsibility here on us politicians. I hope everyone here in the hall with their hand on their heart can say that we'll do what's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e404	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e409	I'm addressing proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e414	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e419	The Metoo campaign has led to a paradigm shift, I hear many say, and perhaps they are right. But if the people's reaction is to lead to lasting change, it depends on us translating this popular commitment into political action. That is why I will give tribute to Mr Red and Mr SV for the proposals we are discussing today. I would like to thank the many people who came to the hearing and gave us important input, and also the case rapporteur for doing a good job. The issue we are discussing shows that there are differences between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. The right-hand side strongly believes that the individual — the individual woman — should take responsibility for avoiding harassment. Or the leader. Or the man. Anyone other than politicians must take responsibility for prevention. Also in this case the government's first statements about the campaign were lukewarm, and the response was illustrative: the Minister of Fisheries thought women should resort to mild violence in the form of a good earring. The former Minister of Culture wanted to discuss, but was most concerned that the film industry had to take its responsibilities seriously. The Prime Minister invited leaders to provide a working environment that made people feel safe. Unfortunately, it is not surprising that the government reacts by individualising responsibility or shifting it to others when one government party has programmed that the relationship between sex should be ‘adapted naturally in working life, leisure and private life, without involvement of public bodies’. Millions of women worldwide have reported how they think it works in recent months. Active gender equality policy has brought us a long way and has always been a central policy of the Workers' Party. But we're not on target. We're going in the wrong direction. Under this government, we have lost our position as the most equal country in the world. Power, capital, and labour are still scattered, and men lead. In these structures, some men abuse their power. The extent of sexual harassment that the Metoo campaign has revealed shows that women’s right to control their own bodies – a right that is absolutely fundamental to living a safe and good life – is not real. At the same time, it is important to remember that many of the political choices that are really about completely different things are also important for equality and sexual harassment. This has been pointed out by most hearing bodies as essential in order to be able to change the attitudes of some men towards women. The government does not seem entirely to take this on board; it weakens policy in several areas. The tax policy and the weakening of the work environment act differently on genders. Women lose. A full, permanent position is equally important if you are a man or a woman, while the government consistently expands the possibility of temporary employment. Why is this important in a metoo context? Well, because the consequences of saying no to a person who has the power to decide whether to continue the job can be very serious. It should be obvious that safe jobs, even allocation of resources and greater gender balance in power constellations have an impact on the extent of harassment. But the work of increasing equality and combating sexual harassment is unfortunately far lower on the government's priority list. It seems that all other considerations will prevail when making the choices. Tasting, abuse of power and abuse, we can't decide away from it, but we can change structures that allow men in positions of power to get ready. It is nice that there is cross-political agreement on some, quite few, proposals today. However, there is reason to mention that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Equality Centres have been significantly weakened during this government. Even the organisations that provide free legal aid to women who are subjected to violence and abuse will give less money to the government. I have no doubt that the right side is also opposed to sexual harassment. But also on this issue, it does not keep talking about it any more. Unculture and illegality require political action, separating the right side and the left side layers. We can't eradicate bad attitudes with politics, but we can make laws that make it less likely that sexual harassment takes place. We can provide more money for preventive and awareness-raising work and help for those who are deferred, and we can actively pursue gender equality policies that do something about the unfair distribution of power, positions and resources. Such measures place the country in the driver’s seat nationally and internationally in terms of equality. This government does not have such ambitions, and their policy works – gender equality is going on in reverse.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e442	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e447	Yes, I'm dealing with the proposals No. 2-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e452	The representative, Mr Henriksen, has taken up the proposal No. 2-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e457	Today, we are dealing with a serious issue of sexual harassment. I would like to thank the representatives who have tabled the proposals and put them on the agenda, in particular the Central Party, who have worked on this in particular. Sexual harassment is defined as unwanted sexual attention that is perceived as offensive and painful to the victim. But it doesn't just hit women, it actually hits men as well. We all have a responsibility for good measures to combat sexual harassment. It's an unculture that needs to be stopped. I believe that the government and the Council of State take this very seriously, and I am pleased that the representative Henriksen can at least acknowledge that the government is opposed to sexual harassment. It also shows these three proposals on which the Committee agrees and the dialogue with the Council of State. The Metoo campaign put this on the agenda, and we have had serious issues in Norway. As a politician, I think it is rather sad and not least outrageous to see that sexual harassment and unwanted sexual approach affect us. Politicians and leaders shall be exemplary and combat precisely such a culture. Especially evil is unwanted sexual activity from those in power to those in dependence on those in power. It's hard to say, you're afraid to lose your job and maybe not get the promotion you want. Many have experienced this, and many dare not say so. Sexual harassment in the workplace affects mainly women. Research shows that women do not report, especially sexual harassment from women, i.e. their co-sisters, if we can say so, and it is also a major underreporting of men. We have to encourage that this is done. I'm very happy, as a football enthusiast, that the series Heimebane in an entire episode puts sexual harassment on the agenda and actually makes it legitimate for women to say from. I am very pleased that there is a majority in the Grand Duchy to strengthen the work against sexual harassment, and the Committee is just emphasising that there is a majority and consensus on this area. I also believe that the representative Henriksen must take over, because if we appear in this room as very dissenting in this field, it may not be legitimate and more difficult to say from. I understand that the committee today agrees on the large, long lines in this matter. It shall provide security and security to ensure that one can actually dry out. It's a signal from the political environment: it's okay to say from. The measures we have agreed on are that we need to strengthen the provision of guidance and assistance. It must be easier to get help when you experience it, and when we stand here from the pulpit and say it's okay to say from, there must also be systems that accept those who say from. I think that sexual harassment starts very early, and getting into school with measures, looking at sexual education, how to actually strengthen people to set limits, and that it's easy to set limits, the committee has also been concerned about. In particular, it is important to identify the extent of sexual harassment. How big it is, including at school? And we also have to figure that out. The government has lifted sexual harassment, and in the Jeløya platform, more measures are being taken in the field of sexual harassment, including sexual harassment. how to enforce issues of sexual harassment. A majority in Stortinget is now also asking that the name be given the power to provide redress and compensation in the cases. It is a proposal that will be put to the hearing. Yes, it's a difference from 2019 to 2020 – it's a proposal that I'm bringing up here – but that means we're getting a proper investigation. The case should be sent to the hearing, we should have action that works. I am thus promoting the proposal of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e477	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e482	I have to say that I am a little disappointed with the black paint that came from the representative of the Workers' Party. I don't remember a single proposal The Labour Party joined the government to fight sexual harassment. What I remember, however, was that they cooperated with a party called SV, where the Council of State had to go on the basis of money given to self-defense courses for women, for which a proposal has been made today. But the representative from the Workers' Party chose not to bring this forward, only proposals that others had mentioned, and that she thought were bad. But I'm going to stay too good to go down that level, because I actually think it's very good that we've managed to agree on some points when it comes to this. It's now that sexual harassment is not new, and you can wonder why it took so many years before there became a public awareness of it. It's quite amazing that so many people for so many years have found it too good to have so little respect for fellow humans. Because it's actually respect – or really disrespect – it's about. Sexual harassment occurs because some people lack respect for others. Had it been for individuals with a lack of social skills, we might not have had the debate that we have today, but it's actually not just about individuals. It's obviously a pattern of disrespect and therefore also an offensive behavior pattern. When many people think it's okay to talk down and act offensively towards others, there's a problem we have to do something about – including we politicians. When a lot of people look through their fingers and accept the other drive, for example. sexual harassment, it's a problem we have to do something about -- even here on the Stortinget. There is little doubt that sexual harassment has hit women in the first place, but we also know that this is something that can affect boys and men. I am glad that today we have a discussion about these problems. I am also pleased that all parties are largely in agreement, even though it may appear to some that they are not. Neither of us accepts sexual harassment, and neither of us accepts that people should find themselves in derogatory comments, unfine approaches, tafsing, touching, and other grunts – which must be allowed to say. Everyone in this room also believes that the public should be involved and contribute to reducing sexual harassment, and we do so, even though the others in society also have a responsibility in this debate – and of course we should remember that individuals have to be held responsible for their own actions. No one who engages in sexual harassment should be able to blame anyone but himself for their actions; it is also important to underline in this debate. No one who sees another way should be able to explain that it is okay because you have not done anything wrong yourself. Sexual harassment is, as many have said from the pulpit today, wrong, and tacit to accept or in some cases to applaud and support harassment is wrong. That is why I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the points put forward in this case. The important now is to focus on prevention and to ensure the mechanisms that allow some to face up to harassment and stop it. It's easier to alert, but I think we're going to be very aware of the responsibility you have, so you don't do anything that can lower that threshold. I also think it is good to stress that the government has a lot of ongoing work in the various departments that are just going into this big picture, and I will end by thanking for a good cooperation in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e501	Today is a historic day in many ways. Today, the Metoo campaign is finally getting lasting political changes. The Metoo movement has been a social revolution that once and for all has put sexual harassment on the agenda. The women's movement has fought for a long time for women to be taken seriously and not on their buttocks. Now hundreds of brave women around the world – from cultural life to the hotel and restaurant industries – have told their stories. There have been strong stories of a lack of respect for women's borders, of a violation that restricts women's freedom. These stories have made it obvious to everyone, what we've known for a long time, that sexual harassment is a social problem. It's obvious when the entire 46 pst. of all women over 17 years of age have been exposed to some form of unwanted sexual attention. It's massive. And it limits women’s freedom – for women are held back in the workplace, they have to stop at work because the boss is harassing, they have to limit themselves in everyday life. Sexual harassment stands in the way of equality. This is why it is so important that we face this societal problem with action at social level. It does not provide better guidance in organisations alone. We need to change attitudes related to borders, we need to give those who are subjected to sexual harassment better public assistance, and we need to strengthen enforcement, so that the consequences of harassment are borne by the one who is harassing. From the day one when the metoo movement started, SV has called for political action against sexual harassment. Therefore, at a party leader meeting, SV took the initiative to find out about some measures. And today is a historic day, for now the movement gets permanent, political changes. The entire size joins some important grip. We need to have more boundaries and respect for the boundaries of others into sexual education, because both good and bad attitudes are created early. We're going to better monitor sexual harassment in school by introducing a separate question about it in the student survey, and we're going to give those who are exposed to sexual harassment, better help and guidance, so they know where to go. However, one of the most important things — and the most requested measure — is that women who are subjected to sexual harassment today have a gap in their legal certainty. Today, victims of sexual harassment have to take their case to court, which costs a lot both economically and not least personally and emotionally, and which very rarely leads to a judgment. Victims of other forms of harassment may receive a low-threshold treatment of their case in the field of discrimination, so that it can be condemned for retribution and compensation, but not victims of sexual harassment. That's the way it's been until now. Finally, we are given a binding decision to impose low-threshold enforcement of sexual harassment. The opposition formed a majority in the Committee's position, with the introduction in the context of the 2019 government budget. Now we record with disappointment that the Christian People's Party and the government parties have chosen to postpone this by one year, to the state budget for 2020, for which a so-called loose proposal has been submitted, proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox It's a shame for all the brave women who have gone out and told their stories in the last few months, and their sisters who need justice now – not in two years. SV is impatient in the fight against sexual harassment. This is why the proposal to impose low-threshold enforcement against sexual harassment is maintained in 2019. We also maintain five points in the draft representative that we have promoted as a matter of urgency, including: on combating sexual harassment also in the workplace. Today is a historic day, but the fight for freedom from sexual harassment continues. I take up the proposal SV is alone about. SV will vote in a subsidiary way for the government parties and the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e524	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e529	The headlines in the media and debates have been marked by surprise and shock: how could sexual harassment happen in that extent, and why haven't we done anything about it? The last year has shown us that the extent of sexual harassment is greater than we could imagine, and it has been shocking. It should not surprise anyone in this room that sexual harassment has happened and happened. Therefore, it should not be a surprise to anyone that we are a little late. Many of these measures should perhaps have been launched before. Because we have to address the problem and help people feel it's easier to say from what sexual harassment is, and when it happens, and that they get the help they need. The most important lesson, at least for me, in this metoo campaign has been how much it takes for the individual to dry up and say from. I am pleased that we today have a common agreement on several important proposals, including: that an overall committee is following up on the case of lowthreshold offers, which was passed on to the Left last year to investigate. We are now united in finding an appropriate way to strengthen the guidance and assistance provision for those who are subjected to sexual harassment. This is an important first step. To have a place to address — orally or in writing — the day you have experienced being exposed to unwanted sexual attention of some degree is important. Not everyone is sure whether what they have been exposed to is illegal, or whether there is an opportunity to do something about it. We know that especially young women are exposed to sexual harassment, and that nurses and those working in the accommodation and catering industry are overrepresented. An accessible low-threshold service will provide additional assurance that help and guidance can be provided regardless of age, gender, education or how resource-intensive you are. Today, in many cases, you have to take a case to the court if you want sexual harassment to have any consequences at all. It's probably a lot of people who haven't done it, until it's costing too much. Sexual harassment has often been trivialized and invisible. Harassment often takes place at work, and the consequences of this, for example. We don't know enough about these women's participation in the profession, but we know they're very much too big. It is high time that it was seized. This requires both a change of attitude and awareness in the workplace and in society. A low-threshold help offer will contribute to that very thing. I want to pay tribute to all the organisations that have recorded in the hearings on this matter. There have been important recordings, which have also made it clear that the very measures we have agreed on here today are one of the most important things we can do at a structural, political level to facilitate that we get less of sexual harassment. I'm glad we're getting a cross-political consensus here today. For the Left, it's important that we stick together on this, because that's exactly what gives a clear signal to society that we're not going to accept sexual harassment. But we don't have to trick ourselves into thinking that we've been doing this with this case, that now we've cleared up the problems of sexual harassment. There are still things that have to be done, and we must not forget the rounds we have had now. I would also like to say that this government has introduced several important measures. There have been several things that have been important to us in the Left. Among other things, the legal aid grants have not been cut. It's been important for the Left, and there's been an uproar in the government. And not enough with that -- we've also started an investigation into needs-tested legal aid in just this kind of case. So here there's action going on. Now we get even more clear measures, and I am very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e546	I'm happy to live in one of the world's most equal countries, a country where it's natural that women and men take responsibility both at home and in work, a country where women and men in theory should have equal rights and equal opportunities. I'm saying in theory because lately it's shown us that, unfortunately, very often it's not like this in practice. Many say that Metoo has been an eye opener for them, while others say: Welcome to the reality of women – we have known and talked about this for a long time. Whether the metoo has opened our eyes or just made something we already knew, but not talked loud enough about, it's now time to talk about the way forward. What do we do to create a real change? We in the Christian People's Party base the understanding of equivalency between men and women on our human vision. Each human being has an inviolable value and must be respected with its integrity and individuality, regardless of sex, age or level of function. Gender discrimination and harassment are so serious because it destroys the integrity and dignity of the other person as a human being. When we bring ourselves to justice to our next, we make ourselves master over another human being, and that has none of us right to do. As politicians and elected representatives, we have a responsibility to make it safe to warn about such behaviour, and we have a responsibility to facilitate better prevention and awareness of the problem. Now we have had two issues to deal with in the committee where actions have been promoted that are important in order to move forward one step in the right direction. We, an overall committee, suggest that we need to strengthen the guidance and assistance provision for people who are subjected to sexual harassment. We ask the government, in connection with the ongoing renewal of the curriculum, to ensure that sexual education in school includes borderline and respect for the borders of others. We also ask the government to clarify how issues of sexual harassment are to be addressed in the pupil survey or other relevant school studies. These are important measures to move forward one step. Then I'm glad that the government parties also at last chose to join, in the context of the state budget 2020, in setting up a low-threshold offer, because that's the way that several have addressed it, so that in the hearing that the committee conducted in connection with these matters, it was one of the most important feedback we received. I think it is sad that there has been a little back and forth as to whether the government parties have been willing to participate in this or not, but I am pleased today that, in the context of the state budget in 2020, we are now getting such a low-threshold offer in place. Then I understand the disappointment of the rest of the opposition that we're postponing this for a year in relation to what was proposed in the setting. One of the metoo campaigns is that sexual harassment is so widespread that almost half – that is, half of our female colleagues, our sisters and our daughters – have been exposed to it. None of us can point to the workplace anymore over there or to the other party, we all have to take responsibility as one and start with ourselves. As Christian People's Party spokesman for equality, I would like to stress that we value the fact that the government in its platform is clear that they will actively contribute to the fight against sexual harassment. They have received some good suggestions for action from the Committee's work, which is really very much based on the feedback we have received from organisations working in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e561	I want to start by thanking all the brave women who said "me too", all those who organized the uproar, all those who stood up with their stories. For too long, the social problem of sexual harassment has been individualised and something women just have to find out about. Now it's taken hold of, and it's thanks to all the women who told, who supported each other, and who demanded action. It's thanks to the women's movement, who's been working against sexual harassment for a long time. Sexual harassment takes place at school, at concerts, on the streets, on the web, at work – wherever we travel. Redly promoted proposals against sexual harassment because we take women's history seriously and believe that methotrexate must be followed up by political action. I am incredibly pleased with a majority for several of our actions against sexual harassment. The stories that emerge through metoo show a distorted relationship of power — both between women and men, and also with regard to who can control others at work. I am pleased that the proposal that sexual education in school should include borderlining and respect for the borders of others, and that the proposal to strengthen the guidance and assistance of those exposed to sexual harassment has been supported by all parties. The government has tried to profile itself as a force for action, but in practice it has been a brake block in the fight against sexual harassment. The fact that we have been given a majority in order for equality and discrimination subjects to be given the power to give up and compensation in matters of sexual harassment is historic. All other discrimination and harassment cases go to an open but not sexual harassment. Now those who are subjected to sexual harassment can go to the denominator, which is easier to go to than a court and less burdensome. This is an action that can be crucial for women across the country. It is a pity, therefore, that at the last moment, the government parties are going to put this off for a year, after first accepting the proposal that was originally adopted by a majority in the committee, but welcome after. I and many people with me are very happy with the measures the majority have agreed behind. But in fact, there are as many people who are exposed to sexual harassment at work as at the city. That's why I'm very disappointed with all the proposals that go directly to dealing with sexual harassment in the workplace that don't get a majority. Many people who have been subjected to sexual harassment at work report that they suffer mental distress as a result of the events, or that it has contributed to a desire to quit the job. We can't have it like that. We therefore propose that work on sexual harassment be strengthened in the work of attitudes, both through the Work Environment Act and in regulations. If you work as an extra or temporary worker, or if you are hired or have a job position that is weaker than if you had a permanent attitude, you are making things weaker. Imagine that it is your boss who has harassed you – he who stops giving you guards if you say so. You may lose your income. What are you doing? The fact that the majority of the population seems to be voting down all the proposals that address sexual harassment in the workplace suggests that the government does not take this into account, and that bulging from many different industries – such as music styles, silent recordings, when the alarm goes, duty-free, non-negotiating and many, many more – has not made as much impression here in the hall as on all of us. That is why I ask the representatives at least to think carefully before they vote down the proposal to set up a public body to monitor sexual harassment in the workplace, to investigate the factors affecting the risk of harassment, and to propose measures to reduce that risk. This is a political responsibility, and it may seem that many in here need this knowledge. Equality requires freedom from violence, rape and sexual harassment. The many stories of sexual harassment have shown us that society continues to reproduce gender roles and power inequalities. I will end by thanking again all the women who told their stories, the women's movement, and not least the good cancers of the other parties. Even though we still have a way to go, we've got historic victories together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e586	The extent of sexual harassment is shocking, it's alarmingly loud. The Metoo campaign shows for good that there is a need for reinforced efforts. I am very pleased that the Storting is gathering today about some common measures to strengthen the work against sexual harassment. I think it's a very good signal The Storting today sends out to the entire population: that political parties – in any colour – gather about measures that will help many women and many men out there stand strengthened in their cause, and a clear signal that Norwegian collapse and government have a zero tolerance for sexual harassment. The government raised the issue of sexual harassment high on its political agenda, not least through the Jeløya platform, which states that a low threshold offer for the enforcement of sexual harassment issues should be investigated. We further establish in the Jeløya Declaration that we also need to strengthen sexual education in primary school, so that children and young people will be safe both on their own sexuality and on the borderline. When I, as the newly appointed Minister for Children and Gender Equality, invited a large recording seminar in which over 100 actors contributed with their input to what was the most important thing that politicians should jointly take on, the recordings were particularly related to low-threshold offers and to strengthening sexual education in school. I immediately started that work, and that is why we are working too hard in the department to investigate a low-threshold scheme that can enforce these matters. However, it is important to do a thorough job, because we are going to make sure that the investigation we are now making and the solutions that we are pointing to are precisely giving the system and the offer these women and men who are exposed to sexual harassment need. There must be a system that manages to capture them in a good way. At the same time, all of the things that we've witnessed in the last few months, have also shown us that these are complicated issues. It's not only complicated matters for the victim, but also for the one it's warned against. This means that if the Storting is to adopt a system of low-threshold enforcement, we need to ensure that there is a system that ensures both parties and ensures legal certainty for both parties. That is why I am asking – and recommend – that the Storting give the government this time, so that we investigate in such a thorough manner that the proposal we are presenting to the Stortinget is a proposal that we know will be accurate. The Storting also asks you to have the authority to repair and replace these cases. It will be included in the proposal that the government will put to the hearing, so I will reassure everyone who is concerned that this proposal takes time, that this work is well under way. Persons exposed to sexual harassment shall be offered professional guidance. It gives the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman today, but it is important that we also look at how to enable them to follow up this offer in an even better way. It is important for me to stress that sexual harassment is primarily an employer's responsibility. I am very pleased that we, as political authorities, take responsibility, point to action and give a signal of how serious these matters are. But it is actually the responsibility of the employer to prevent, follow up and look at these matters. That is why I am very pleased that many industries are now becoming so offensive, taking action and pointing to proposals that can ensure that all jobs and organisations are safe – for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e607	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e612	We have had a debate here in which one has been concerned in one way with the concrete measures we are talking about today, and in another way with the overall image of equality, which has been pointed out by several hearing bodies, and which have been important to us in the Workers' Party when we are going to develop a gender equality policy that also takes care of sexual harassment in a better way. One of the issues facing the Storting in this session has been the government that has simplified the most important tool we have for identifying the gender issue in the workplace. I would like to ask the Minister to explain to the Storting a little bit about what was the reason for simplifying the reporting obligation in the position on simplification of legislation for businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e619	It is important for us to make sure that smaller businesses, which spent a lot of resources reporting on gender equality, spend their time actively working for equality. We're more concerned with action, making sure that there's actually no sexual harassment or breach of equality in the workplace, than you have to report it. But now the government is fully involved in investigating – and sending to the hearing – the obligation of activity, which I know the representative is well informed about. And we will come back to Stortinget with a proposal on how to better enable employers to maintain the gender perspective, while also ensuring that these are unbureaucratic and cost-effective measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e627	As the case rapporteur with a desire to achieve the best possible compromise, so that as politicians we show that we are actually at the forefront of stopping sexual harassment, I experienced a cooperative committee, but also a work in which the department held back with regard to getting even more and better action. A lot might have been about economics, because I hope it wasn't about the minister's will and attitudes. I was a little alarmed when the minister so early took NHO's view of this matter, and I don't think that when she was Minister of Culture, she was particularly active towards cultural life, where the metoo movement started. They have asked for help in many different ways, and I believe that this is the area we must at least address now. I wonder if the minister agrees with me that in cultural life there are some particular conditions, where you can owe a lot to the employer, and I wonder if the minister intends to look at it. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e634	Yes, the first thing I did as Minister for Children and Gender Equality was just to invite you to a large recording conference for a lot of industries, because I wanted concrete action. I got that. I also invited all the parties at Stortinget to come to my office to discuss how we could put ourselves together behind a proposal that everyone could live well with. That is why I am very pleased that the Committee has agreed on at least three proposals. I think it's an important signal. As Minister of Culture, I invited all the industries within my portfolio to a meeting at the office to hear what they were doing themselves. At the end of the day, it is their own responsibility – the employers, the managers of organisations – to take action, to prevent, but also to stop it from happening. Changing culture takes time, and it's not that it's just being solved with more money. Cultural life came and asked for more, five million. kr I think it was they wanted, to knock down and work against sexual harassment – I don't think it's that simple [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e641	The President must remind everyone of the speaking time of 1 minute in the change of line.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e646	We in SV are of course very happy that we have had an impact on many important actions today, and thank you for the cooperation around it. But many more measures are needed to combat sexual harassment than those for which we have a majority today. Therefore, the SV maintains five measures, including: on getting sexual harassment into the HMS regulation, so that we can start a systematic work on the protection agencies around against sexual harassment. Several trade unions have asked for that, and the 'not on the menu' from the hotel and restaurant industry – one of the many – also shows the strong need for action in the workplace. However, government parties choose to vote on that measure – and more – on working life. Why does the government agree to take good action against sexual harassment in school, but not in the workplace?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e653	I want to praise the SV for both the initiative and the proposal that they are making, and, not least, for the constructive cooperation that SV is working on in these matters. The reason why government parties do not want to go into the proposal relating to HMS is that the Working Environment Act already provides for a ban on all forms of harassment and other inappropriate behaviour in the law today, and we therefore believe that it has been properly enforced. I again stress that it is the individual employer who is responsible for risk assessment and the necessary follow-up of their activities. That responsibility is important for us to stress, and I believe that the proposal that SV then voted for today is very well taken care of in the law as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e658	The government has in its platform that they have a zero vision for marine litter, and that's very good. The Christian People's Party fully supports it, for plastic is a threat to life in the sea. But we will also challenge the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and the government – and to the extent that the Storting also – to have a zero vision for sexual harassment, because it poses a threat to the equality between men and women. So we have now discussed these eight proposals, and we have agreed on four proposals. But does the Council of State, if she shares the Christian People's Party's idea of a zero vision, see that there must be more action? Because it's not that it's the Stortinget and what the Stortinget has proposed, which is going to be the end line and the red line? I hope that the government also has ambitions to come back with more measures that can get us in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e673	I want to thank the Christian People's Party for the constructive approach they have to this cooperation, and the understanding of the Christian People's Party has that these are complicated things. When we are committed to ensuring legal certainty both to the alert and to the alert, it requires work. I think everyone understands that the metoo case has given us an understanding that we can never settle down on the fact that we've done enough. We always have to get better, and we always have to work systematically on this. I think a very important measure is to strengthen sexual education in school. Because this is about giving our students and children an understanding of the boundaries, of their own sexuality and of what is actually not allowed to do to another. It's about human dignity. It's about respect for each other. That is why I am pleased that the Ministry of Knowledge is now asking the Directorate of Education to come back to how we can achieve enhanced sexual education in the best possible way, and to implement this in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e682	Figures from the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work show that over 120,000 workers experience sexual harassment at work once or more times a month. The research from Fafo shows that several of those who have been subjected to harassment at work say that they get psychological problems from it, and they consider that they stop working. We know that the size is large, there have been many rupees from different industries, but nevertheless the government parties do not choose to support proposals that go directly to work. So my question is, what will the government do to combat sexual harassment in the workplace? I would like to stress that I am not asking who else is responsible for doing something, but what the government is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e689	Firstly, it is the responsibility of any State Council to follow up on this in its field. I think it is very crucial that the social partners take this very seriously. There I know that this is a topic, and that you are now creating a new supervisor or at least information about which guidelines you should have, how to follow up such issues, and what obligation you have as an employer to follow up. I think that information and knowledge about this is very important. At the same time, the most important thing that has happened is the metoo campaign; it has done something about our attitudes. Now there is an understanding that when an employee comes and reports a case, it is no longer just going to hare off or you're going to use a power struggle as an argument for not getting hold of it. I think employers now have a completely different approach to this, and that we are going to see a big change – that it has become one before and one after methotrexate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e698	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e704	I would first like to continue on what the representatives of the two parties Red and SV have been about, that what is happening in the staging room today is a victory for the many women who have stood up. In the metoo campaign, women all over the world stood up, they stood up and said that enough is enough. Many women did so, with great risk of their own future. I guess it's worth listening to women getting up. We've seen examples of that before. In terms of violence and abuse, the right to education and the right to work, to assets and to power – women have said that they no longer feel oppressed. Therefore, a comprehensive gender equality policy is so incredibly important. I am so glad that those who came to the hearing, almost in agreement in their answers to the hearing, pointed to the measures that were available in the case. But at the same time, they pointed out that the overall equality policy had major shortcomings. Therefore, the government in its policy should also be more concerned about, I believe, putting in place more active gender equality measures. It's kind of not just saying, I mean, we're not in the front line of gender equality anymore, but we're doing it. If we want to be in front, we have to act. If we want a policy to do something about gender equality, we have to be proactive and active and make things happen. Nor is it the case that the proposals that lie here today have not been made before – in fact, a good part of them have been previously voted down by the government. But this time they've been dragged after the shoes into the staging room, where we're going to adopt one of these proposals. When we also see that they could not adopt it for 2019, but had to figure out how to postpone it and negotiate it until 2020, one should be able to ask: Where is the government's capacity for action in relation to gender equality policy? Low-threshold services were adopted two years ago — now the Minister says we need more time for investigation — two years ago. Strengthened sexual education has been proposed before. As regards the strengthening of the LDO, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman: the Labour Party strengthens it every year, the Government does not. Questions in the Student Study on Sexual Harassment – together with the Christian People's Party – we proposed to report on gender equality. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. It was downhearted. But I'm going to be the first one to be happy that we're now getting an active measure in place. Then I just get to live with that in terms of working environment and working conditions, we have at least a long way to go also in terms of sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e717	I must again stress that we in SV are very happy that we have reached this point, and I would also like to thank all those who have put their careers and working lives at risk and really put this matter on the agenda once and for all. It has been crucial, and it shows that when people out there organize and deal with matters, it can also lead to lasting changes. But then in this debate we have seen some examples of the lack of ambition that the government unfortunately has in today's gender equality policy. Part of the debate that is constantly coming back is this eternal question of investigations into actions that we should all agree on is now necessary. The issue of low-threshold enforcement against sexual harassment is the great example of it. I really think that the Council of State in its article let the cat out of the bag a little bit as to why this takes so much time to get to. The Council of State points out that it is so complicated, it is about objections and reservations related to introducing this, and that we must therefore now postpone another year to introduce such an important measure. But this question is well solved – we need to be able to make that clear once and for all. The 2012 Skee Committee is one example of a clear and clear recommendation that we should introduce this. Since then, the UN Women's Committee has recommended that we do so. So we've been told by the United Nations to introduce what we've been told by the Equality Ombudsman to put it in place, at the hearing in this committee, we've been clearly informed by all the hearing bodies – except the NHO – to introduce it, and the methotrexate movement has then put it on the agenda. The matter must be very clear now, but it must be postponed again, once again, as with so many other measures taken by this government in the field of equality. I think that's very bad. Then the council itself points to the great responsibilities of the employer here. Yes, it's an employer's responsibility, we agree on that, but it's also a political responsibility. That is why the party of the Council of State and the rest of the government are now agreeing to explicitly anchor sexual harassment in the HMS regulation and start a systematic work on the protection ombudsmen, and not least to monitor it in the workplace to find out what causes are behind it. I think that too is a pity. Now the Stortinget has shown that we are taking action, and I really hope that we will also get ahead of the gender equality policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e732	The fact that the representative Hemdal of the Advance Party opens his speech by criticising the Workers' Party and accusing us of black paint was no big surprise. That's what the Progress Party does in almost all of its articles. But when she then tells us that she will stay too good at petty things in the debate, and continues to attack SV and connect an old case that has absolutely nothing – and I underline: nothing – to do with sexual harassment, and that in Stortinget, it is certainly difficult to see that it is possible to get at a slightly lower level of debate. The representative Örmen Johnsen made a visit to the representative Henriksen in his post and was obviously somewhat offended that the Workers' Party believed that the government parties are doing too little, that it takes too long, and that it is postponed. That the representative means it's okay. But when she adds that the working party with this destroys something of the matter, it is well enough to shoot a little over the goal. The work against sexual harassment is important, and therefore the Workers' Party is today involved in several good proposals that would have strengthened the work on this matter, from today on. We think it is a pity that the matter takes too long and is postponed, but we get that – it looks like – take notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e741	I think equality is about men -- we've talked a lot about women here today, but I just want to say that sexual harassment is also about men. We must not forget that. We're going to have a debate on equality later, and then we're really going to have the opportunity to take action and have a discussion about it. I think the most important signal here from the pulpit today is that we can agree on something that will set lasting tracks. It is that we should have a low threshold for enforcement, that is, that we should give the Ombudsman authority for restitution and compensation. Maybe that's the most important thing, and then we're going to work on guidance and help measures. When it takes some time, I think that yes, impatience is very good, and we're going to be impatient. But I am also concerned that the legislative proposals that we are going to adopt here have a good foundation, that they should be consulted and correct. Then it is that action plans and work against sexual harassment are not new. As the principal, I worked on this already in 2003, and then we had many action plans. So it's nothing new, but the metoo campaign has speeded it up and put it on the agenda in another way. This is my first debate as committee leader, and I think it's a symbolic matter that it's been about sexual harassment, and I'm very pleased with the debate that has been. Although we have disagreed, I can reassure the Workers' Party that it will do a little more before I am offended.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e752	I would like to stress that the government is doing well to look at the proposal for a low-threshold offer, but it is important for us that it is good proposals we point to when we are going to promote it for the Storting. At the same time, it is not an automatic consequence of the fact that giving authority to impose appeal and redress in simple cases would result from the fact that the name is given the power to enforce the case, since enforcement powers are required in order to impose a fine. You don't have that today. They must have the power to detect a breach of the law in order to be able to assess at all. Therefore, this matter is more complicated than that. It is not that because we have been recommended to go for this proposal, we can without further ado promote it at Stortinget. I also ask for understanding from Stortinget to ensure that, even if a proposal from the government has been submitted, the proposal is well-founded and justified – we must know that this is a proposal that will take care of the victims and also ensure legal certainty for those whom it is notified and notified, in a good way. So I want to say that today Stortinget is gathering on important proposals. We stand together, and the Storting and the government say clearly that sexual harassment is not acceptable. We are taking measures to prevent this, namely by strengthening sexual education at school. We strengthen counselling and assistance for those victims who are victims of sexual harassment, and we ensure that they are able to identify the extent of the school. Then I expected the Workers' Party rather than going on an autopilot and making the same rule that this is a government that is not concerned with equality, rather tried to raise its eyes a little and show everyone out there who has stood up with their stories, who has experienced sexual harassment, that here the politicians in Norway stand together and are going to work on going down on sexual harassment, preventing it from happening, and agreeing on measures that will work. It is important to also stress to me that this is not over. We're going to work constantly to counter attitudes that show that you don't respect each other. But I had hoped that for once the Workers' Party could be constructive in such an important matter, and rather raise the positive in what is now happening, and as the Stortinge stands behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e763	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e768	I'm so happy when the Council of State shows commitment. I just wish she had spent it on equality instead of on the Workers' Party. What is important in this matter is that the Workers' Party has been pre-conquered. We've suggested a lot of things, and we've dragged the government after the hair to get equality measures in place. Among other things, we had: in the last session, together with the Christian People's Party, an entire package that the government really did not want, where the then Council of State reluctantly had to agree on quite a number of proposals. So I want to say with great pleasure that the Workers' Party is going to work for better equality. We're going to fight for the women out there who stand up, at the risk of their own future, and I want with all my heart that the government can do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e777	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e793	We have come to the handling of the reorganisation in the Statistical Central Bureau. There has been a long and thorough treatment of this matter. I want to start by thanking the Committee for a very good cooperation. There has been a consensus on all the questions that have been asked in writing to the Council of State. There has been partial agreement and some disagreement about the setting that we are now presenting. What's agreed, and I'm very glad, is that it was good that the process that was going on in the Statistical Central Bureau was stopped. That's a consensus. Some of us wonder very much why it was not stopped before. It has been followed up with questions about the Ministry's management of the Statistical Central Bureau, including the professional independence of the Statistical Central Bureau. We have had many questions about documentation on governance, records, protocols, etc. and, of course, discussion about what was a lot of the recording that this was a matter – the way former director Meyer was pushed out of his position. Our first questions were sent on 14 November 2017 – six questions. In my opinion, it could be a clarifying round. But instead of attending or having some kind of confession that there had been some weaknesses in the process, the Council of State drew its own picture of the process, which did not agree with the other person who had been involved in the process, had experienced, for example. that we were confirmed that the location of a specific employee had been the subject of a telephone conversation between the head of expedition Holmsen and former director Meyer, which is one of the many points that show that there has been no cleaning in the management. It was also clarified, as had already been obtained in the media, that, while the Council of State has the opportunity to instruct the Director of the SSB, an occasion for which the Council of State was allowed to use, the Council of State declared, instead, mistrust of the Director of the SSB, which the Council of State has nothing to do with, as that position has been appointed by the King of State. This made it natural for a new round of questions, which we sent on 22 November 2017. The answers resulted in a further retention of their version and perception of the dialogue with the SSB from the Council of State, but through the e-mail and SMS exchange we were given access to, we found absolutely no basis for saying that the version of the Council of State was strengthened by the communication that was made visible – on the contrary. As early as February, Marianne Marthinsen had asked questions as to whether the changes in the SSB should wait for the Statistikklovcommittee, but it was rejected. We were given access to employee interviews as late as 2 May 2017, where it appears that the department had, on the contrary, supported Director Meyer in that the research department also had to find its way into being evaluated. And not so late as at the meeting on 19 September 2017 it was such that some of the others who had been present perceived that there had been some stop signal given by the department. On the contrary, they had seen that there had been close contact between former Director and Head of Mission Holmsen towards the meetings in the spring – in March, in front of the board meeting in April and as late as at the meetings in October 2017, in preparation for the Director to meet the Minister of Finance. It was clear that the contact between the head of the department and the director was very close to those processes. The conclusion to the answers was that the versions were so much against each other that it was not possible to get to the bottom of the case without a hearing. The hearing that was arranged showed a lot of interest, including: that the parties to the wage settlement in Norway, the social partners, were very much in agreement with the importance of the SSB and that the research, and not least the model work they are doing, is essential for the settlement of wages, as we know, and for their work, and that for a long time it had been feared that it could be delivered on it. Of course, a discussion of model choices in the Statistical Central Bureau is a central issue. Neither did the other actors we heard in that hearing, provide the basis for believing that former Director Meyer had been running the process against the will of the department. We also gained insight into – in connection with the hearing or first via the media just before the hearing – that the protocol that existed from the meeting on 19 September 2017 had actually been changed, i.e. that a record from a meeting with Director Meyer had changed since Meyer left his position, and that had changed on the same day as we asked our first questions. At the same time, we were still refused access to the documents we requested, and were not given new access on that occasion. The most special thing about the hearing is that the Council of State said: ‘That’s why we used the opportunity all the way in the governance dialogue we had, to say, wait for the Statistics Law Commission, this is too extensive.’ That was the direct background to the fact that we saw the need to ask new questions on 16 January 2018, where we asked for documentation on the bastant claim that was made. We once again asked for documents to be sent that would be likely to the Council of State's version of the many calls that had been made during the year. We didn't get any more insight. But we finally got a confirmation that the first time the department said stop to former director Meyer, was 30 October 2017. It is clear in that reply round. But we didn't get any more insight, and that's why it was very interesting when there was a case with the Civil Ombudsman where VG had asked for transparency on three of the same meeting dates that we had asked for. They brought up the case with the Civil Ombudsman, and there came a very special story. First, the ministry refuses to transmit the documents to the Civil Ombudsman. So says the Civil Ombudsman, who, of course – after thorough discussion in Stortinget and clear permits in law – is entitled to receive the documents requested. They shall be sent to the Civil Ombudsman within the time limit, otherwise on the same day as the hearing, on 10 January 2018. So we see from the correspondence that we are given the insight that documents have been sent again on 16 January 2018. It turns out that in the documents sent over 10 January 2018 there were changes – comments by hand – before they were sent to the Civil Ombudsman. Of course, it is very serious, as the Civil Ombudsman had specified that they should have unloaded documents. Fortunately, according to the Council of State's response in the last hearing, there were some in the department who had responded to it and on 16 January 2018 sent over the actual documents. Perhaps it becomes even more serious when the Civil Ombudsman concludes in his round that these are case documents, which are then disputed by the Department in its letter to the Stortinget, and which is even disputed by the Council of State in the next and subsequent hearing, despite the fact that the Civil Ombudsman is clumsy. That is why there was a new hearing on 1 March 2018, with an open part and an closed part, because it is the department that decides whether the documents should be published, but we got documents except for the public on the basis of what I have now mentioned. So it got worse and worse for the state council during the process than the starting point we started with. That's why I'm glad it's a majority position that you say: ‘The decision finds the Minister of Finance’s duties to deal with matters relating to the management of the reorganisation in the SSB critically.’ But I'm even more happy that we have a unanimous position in II, where we say: ‘The size assumes that before major changes are made to the SSB, including the follow-up to the Statistical Regulatory Committee, an open democratic debate, including a separate matter for the Stortinget, shall be opened.’;» Because the most dramatic thing in the matter is that there were ever major, significant changes in the SSB without there having been any previous open democratic debate. I think that's important, and I'm glad it's unanimous, because the SSB has such an incredibly important role in the Norwegian model of society. It's an institutionalized part of the Norwegian social model, and there's been a consensus in the country. It's evolved over a long time. I might start by discussing the first national budget in 1946, where one began to look at social developments in the light of the various budgetary decisions and other elections that were made politically. So, the Central Statistical Bureau established its research department in 1950, and not least since 1952, and when Odd Aukrust started out in the Central Statistical Bureau, we have had a development that has been widely agreed on. It was during the Borten government's Odd Augarust mission from the government that began to work on preparing the payroll in 1966, and the Technical Calculations Committee was established in 1967. This has been crucial to the understanding we have today of the front-school model and central payroll, and not least because there have been model choices related to it, which in a way complements the job that the two important parts of the Norwegian system will be dealing with. But it has always been, despite consensus, political, under different governments, some economic environments that have meant something else. I quote from an article in Economic Forum No. 9 in 2007, which says: ‘We do not see that the Norwegian economy is very different from other countries’ economies. To assume that the ‘Norwegian model’ is so peculiar that our own economic laws apply to us would be rather bold.” The article was signed by, among others, current Head of Mission Holmsen of the Ministry of Finance. So there have always been some people who think that the so-called DSGE models, which have not been the preferred ones in the Statistical Central Bureau, should be used as analytical tools. And when there were comments about the appointment of Director Christine Meyer that someone saw it as a relatively political occupation, and when she later set up the city committee, which was pointing both in terms of mandate and composition towards those who prefer the other economic models, a fool can wonder if there has been a plan for a fundamental change. That is why I am very pleased with the decision we have today unanimously proposed, and I hope that it will be unanimously adopted. As a result, that process has been stopped, and we can be sure that if any significant changes are to be made to the model and the role of the SSB in the Norwegian model, which has served Norwegian society well for decades after decades, this should not happen without democratic treatment. I can say that for our part, in the Workers' Party, we will approximate the further work for which the Financial Committee will take responsibility, in that we will strengthen the SSB, we will ensure the professional independence of the SSB, and we will continue to work to ensure that they have the central role they have in the Norwegian model of society, which has served Norwegian society well for many, many decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e854	This matter does not concern an attempt at political direction of research or how the SSB should perform its function as the statistical and premiscuous provider of the ministries and social partners. The case concerns a management of the SSB that wanted to bring the Statistical Clover Committee to the fore with a reorganisation process, where there was a significant risk that the SSB would not be able to deliver on the societal mission. Instead of waiting for the Statistics Clover Committee, the SSB set up a separate sample, which is later known as the Bye Committee. Several heavy actors, such as LO and NHO, were critical of the proposals made by the Bye Committee, and they believed that the sample, with its composition, was almost a clean ordering agency. Both the Ministry of Finance and the board of the SSB considered that the SSB had to take into account the criticism made on the spring party 2017. This was communicated to the management of the SSB, and both the board and the Ministry of Finance expected this to be followed up. When draft establishment plan and assignment criteria were submitted to the Ministry in August 2017, it became clear that the management of the SSB had not taken into account the objections raised by the Ministry, the social partners or the board of directors of the SSB. Even after the Ministry of Finance asked for a meeting with the SSB to discuss job plans and criteria, the SSB ran on without taking into account the Ministry of Finance. The management of the SSB obviously believed that it was they and no one else who would decide how the SSB was organized. This shows a management who was unwilling to listen and ensure the necessary anchoring of the planned reorganisation. For example, on 14 September 2017, the management of the SSB adopted both the establishment plan and the criteria, although a meeting had been agreed with the Ministry of Finance a few days later, more specifically 19 September. At its meeting on 19 September 2017, the Ministry again expressed its concerns, and the SSB had an opportunity to consider taking into account its objections. On 18 October 2017, the Ministry was informed by e-mail that the changes made by the SSB would nevertheless be implemented as planned. The departments of the SSB were notified this day before. When the deployment of researchers became known internally in the SSB on 23 and 24 October 2017, it did not take long for this to reach the public, with extensive criticism of the management of the SSB. With all the noise that followed, it was quite right for the Minister of Finance to stop the process of conversion on 10 November 2017. LO's chief economist, Roger Bjørnstad, summed this up in a very good way during the hearing, where he said: ‘It is my opinion that Meyer has shown a weak understanding of the societal mission and the role of the SSB’s research department. The Bye report, Meyer's responsibility for the mandate and composition, and her reluctance to remove the damage it has caused to the research community in the SSB, mean that it was right to stop the reorganisation in the SSB.» If the Minister of Finance had not stopped the reorganisation, it would also have created riots, when several opposition politicians demanded that the Minister of Finance take action. In other words, the Minister of Finance was in a so-called Catch 22 situation – the opposition was supposed to criticise anyway. Looking back, it is easy to see that the reorganisation process should have stopped at an earlier stage, but as in all such processes, it is difficult to find the right time. I'm referring here to the chief scribe Dørum said during the hearing: ‘Wondered afterwards, this process should not be allowed to continue for so long, but it is nevertheless difficult to find the point where one should go in and say that now this must be overruled, now one must be placed under administration, in a certain sense.’ Some have claimed that this interferes with the professional independence of the SSB. This has been refuted by legal expertise, inter alia. Professors Morten Kinander, Geir Woxholth and Eivind Smith. The Ministry has not challenged the independence of the SSB in this matter. Another theme that has emerged in the matter has been whether the departure to Meyer was due to her view of immigration. During the hearing, nothing was found to support this claim, on the contrary. Meyer himself could not document anything other than saying that it was about immigration, since she herself could not see that there was any other reason why she had to leave. There is therefore every reason to reject this claim. I expect that we will have the opportunity to come back to the organisation of the SSB at a later stage, when the Statistics Division has said its own and the Department, after the normal consultation process, comes up with a case for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e898	I think the leader of the Control and Constitutional Committee had a good review. One can stand behind all his views on this matter. But I want to get to some points that are particularly important to us in the Center Party. It is crucial that we have a statistical central agency that is unvalidated and that provides figures and statistics that can be trusted by everyone. When the majority in the committee have come up with criticism of the government's handling of this matter, there are particularly two main elements I want to develop. Firstly, there has been an unfortunate mix in the governance dialogue between the Ministry of Finance and the SSB. Secondly, the Ministry of Finance itself has expressed doubts about the management dialogue with the SSB. Written and oral feedback messages for the SSB lead shifted, some of the verbal feedback was given a lot of attention from the Department's side. I'll get a little bit more into these two elements. The management dialogue is provided in written annual letters of assignment, but the documents and references we received also show that there are oral messages that are perceived differently from the SSB and the ministry. It was clearly understood and clarified in the hearings, including from the ministry, that there has been a clear signal about the challenge of change. At the same time, it is said that only the written management dialogue applies. Such a regime makes it difficult for us to try out the management dialogue. It is particularly important that one through this dialogue should be able to verify that the SSB has the free and independent position necessary to have confidence in the facts, numbers and representations provided by the SSB. Based on the documentation received by the Committee on this matter, there was never a clear stop signal from the Ministry of Finance to reorganise the SSB. On the contrary, there was a recording to the leader that one had to go further in the process. It was quite clear that there was a recording of changes in the process that was, but that at the same time there was a clear message that one should continue the reorganization. In addition, when we have felt that the Ministry of Finance has been reluctant to deliver all the notes and write in connection with the reorganisation, it is clear that the Ministry has something to hide, that one has tried to weaken the SSB as a self-employed and unvalidated agency. This, together with a request from the Ministry of Finance to provide a so-called reading guide to the Civilombodsman, puts the matter in a strange light. All departments need to have a free and open governance dialogue with the underlying agencies, but it is especially with the SSB in relation to many others. The SSB must be an independent institution. Therefore, we believe that the management dialogue that was first given orally, and then written in the management dialog, should be documented, in order to ensure that the free position that SSB has is signed. We believe that when it comes to the reorganisation of the SSB, it was quite right to stop it. But it should have come at an earlier time, especially when the large employers’ and employers’ organisations reacted as they did. As it has appeared in the earring, the foot should have been lowered long before October 2017. In the future, we need to ensure that an SSB is able to deliver reports and documentation without binding on the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance. The SSB is in a special position vis-à-vis other agencies or agencies, because it must be a neutral, objective party that will be able to provide service to a wide range of Norwegian society without binding. The day before the setting from the Committee came, we also received suggestions from the Statistics Clown Selection. In this context, it is natural for us to consider the debate and the position here today as a starting point for the debate on the new statistical law and the role of the SSB in society in the future. It's a matter we're going into with the greatest seriousness to figure out how to define and limit the SSB's professional invalidity. That's the most important thing for us in this case, and it's absolutely crucial to have an SSB that all parties can have confidence in in in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e917	The three major questions in this matter are: Has the professional independence of the SSB been respected? Has the former head of the SSB acted in violation of or in line with the direction signals of the Ministry of Finance? And has the Council of State provided correct information to the Stortinget in the process and afterwards? In order to respond to this, the Control Committee has done a thorough job, and on the basis of the documentation we have obtained, there are the following developments of action that we, or at least I, can look forward to: When Meyer was added in 2015, the Ministry of Finance explicitly sought out the announcement text for a person to reform the SSB. Meyer went straight to and implemented a comprehensive reform of the SSB statistical unit in 2015–2016. Autumn 2016, Meyer brought down the Bye selection, which was commissioned to propose changes to the research department. The proposal added to constrain the function of the research department from providing projections, developing models, and delivering on-demand to a more limited statistical-oriented function. The recommendations from the Bye selection received massive criticism. It was a great deal of trouble on the inside. LO and NHO slaughtered the proposal and thought it would be devastating for pay resolution and technical calculation selection. The Environment Directorate and environmental organisations thought it would be devastating for climate and environmental work. From a staggering point of view, it was claimed that the changes were destructive far beyond the organisation; there was an attack on the basis of the Norwegian model, where the parties are equally competent and share a common knowledge base. If 2017 has been good for anything, it has been the strong mobilisation of the SSB and the building of a broad consensus on the fundamental role of the SSB in the Norwegian community. The Ministry of Finance finally got behind the criticism, in January. At a scheduled meeting, they warned against continuing the reorganization along the lines that the Bye selection drew up. And Meyer adjusted the line then. In March, Meyer and the head of research Telle had completed a draft board note, which they sent to the Ministry of Finance. This note contained the principle of further reorganisation and contained many different considerations. the role of the research department, the requirements for researchers, etc. The note was sent to the department long before the director and the board of SSB received it for reading. The Ministry of Finance replied with a proposal for a new note text. They made some clarifications, which in all material things were the final note that the board dealt with. The proposal for changes from the Bye selection had raised questions about whether it was right to make major changes to the SSB while a public selection had developed proposals for new statistical laws. Under the heading Relationship to legal work in this text on the principle of reorganisation, the Ministry of Finance writes something that is not to be misunderstood. The Ministry of Finance wrote: ‘it has been necessary to start a process now This is not least important in order to achieve the best possible research department in line with the objective of the letter of award on research at a high international level. [[...]] Such a process is not in conflict with the Regulatory Committee, which shall consider, inter alia, whether research is required by law for the SSB.’» In other words, not only had the Ministry of Finance been actively involved in reorganising the SSB Board, but they also explicitly wrote that the reorganisation should not wait for legal work – in March. At the end of April, the matter arose on the SSB Board. The final decision was a simplified version of the note itself, which was cleared from the ministry. The clear signal was now given by both the Board of Directors and the Ministry of Finance – the reorganisation continued independent of the legal work. In May, Meyer had a co-worker's conversation with the finance department's rental where she manages to boast about this reform work. Start the August implementation of the reorganization process. Draft location criterion was sent to the Ministry of Finance at the end of the month, and final criteria were sent to the Ministry at the end of September. There were no demonstrable objections from the Ministry of Finance. The hearing also revealed that none of this was presented to the board of directors of the SSB – it was the head of the SSB department that reported to and received a steering signal from, and that provided back coverage for the reform work it had been seen to carry out. But then – only when the list of new positions of singles was publicly known – this picture changed. At the end of October, the representative Engen-Helgheim of the Progress Party went into the Class struggle and criticized the researcher Holmøy for moving from the research department to the statistical department. He thought it was an expression that Meyer was critical of his research – or a researcher The Progress Party is very pleased with, after the work of the Brochmann selection to create immigration accounting. The criticism from Engen-Helgheim was then rejected by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. But the rejection did not last long. Same week, just after the group meeting of the Progress Party, Jensen Meyer called into the carpet. In a short time, the good tone between the department and the SSB manager is gone, the cooperation has gone from supporting to critical. The press crew will be formed. And in just under two weeks, Meyer moves as a director, after the censure from Jensen made it impossible for her to continue. I think this is as close as we can get to a correct description that what has happened in this case. Everyone is now a few in that it was right to stop the reorganisation after the wholesale processing of new statistical laws, but this was never the reason why the Storting opened up control cases. Control cases are about the Ministry of Finance managing the resignation of Managing Director Meyer. The Minister of Finance does not use instructions to stop the process, but declared a distrust of the Managing Director, a reaction form the Council of State itself states in letters of reply is outside its authority. In addition, there were indications that the Ministry of Finance wanted to determine how individual employees in the SSB would work, and what models they would work with. For me, these two factors were the reason why it was right for the Committee of Inquiry to open up a case. But in retrospect, much more critical matters have been discovered. This has become increasingly serious for each new round of questions and answers. Siv Jensen has claimed that from January 2018 onwards, the Ministry of Finance has repeatedly warned against the reorganisation – she says that there is no lack of warnings – and that it should not prejudge the option of the Statistics Clover Selection. But it has not been possible to find a clear signal in the written material that supports this rationale. On the other hand, the written material speaks for the opposite – as I have already done for it. It seems that the Ministry of Finance does not have its previous support for the Meyer reorganization and tries to get Stortinget to participate in an alternative story. And when the committee of control got into the claims, it's hard to defend this alternative reality – and the struggle gets absurd, which I want to come back to. SV has been based on three statutory principles when we have assessed the Minister of Finance's handling of this matter. The first is independent of the SSB. The Minister of Finance has maintained that the Department has been involved in staffing processes and has had opinions on the concrete placement of individual staff within the SSB. The Minister of Finance believes this is in line with good administration, a practice that directly challenges the law-enforced professional independence of the SSB. Furthermore, the Managing Director of the SSB is not in a relationship with the Minister of Finance, but the Minister of Finance therefore chose to declare a distrust of the SSB Director and by doing so it is impossible for the SSB Director to continue in his post. The finance minister has the full ability to instruct the SSB, but instead chose to express a mistrust that she does not have the opportunity to express. Both of these conditions create precedents that weaken the professional independence of the SSB. The second is governance dialogue. It is stated in the government's economic legislation that the departments should have their governance dialogue with the etats in writing. When you go through the written governance dialogue in this matter, it is difficult to find a clear signal from the Ministry of Finance that the reorganisation should wait for the work of the Statistics Clover Selection. On the other hand, there are several written sources pointing in the opposite direction. The Ministry of Finance has been constructively involved in the reorganization process and has been close to processes that would certainly not be a department's role to be so close. The Committee has asked whether this opens the misunderstanding many times, without a clear answer. That's kind of weird. This is a clear example of the owner's message to a body that the SSB must do in writing. In this case it has not been, and it has also made it difficult for the Committee to examine the steering signal. Furthermore, different actors also have different versions of the sequence of events during a non-narcotic meeting, which weakens the credibility of the Minister of Finance's explanation. With a written owner's signal, this would not have been a problem. The third is disclosure. A member of the Government shall not provide incorrect or misleading information to the Storing. It is stated in the Constitution and is fundamental for the Greatness to function as the highest elected level. In this case, it would be difficult for the Stortinget to get clear answers about its views on the reorganisation in the SSB. Only after Meyer had left, could the Council of State tell Stortinget that she had always thought that the reorganisation should have waited for the Statistics Law Selection – despite the fact that the Council of State had received several direct questions about this throughout 2017 from representatives of the Stortinget. In several of the replies to the Control and Constitutional Committee, and in the hearing, the Council of State intended to warn against the reorganisation prior to the Statistics Law Selection since January. However, it was only in the third letter of reply to the Control and Constitutional Committee that the Minister of Finance had not asked the SSB leader to stop the reorganisation until 30 October, while waiting for the Statistical Clover Committee. It was then long to wait for a proper answer to the simple question. This I believe is contrary to the fact that a government council will provide the Storting with the necessary information to the best of its ability. It is also revealed that the Ministry of Finance has actively withheld relevant information, including: documentation from several meetings to which the Stortinget should have had access, without any pressure and treatment from the Civilobodsman. The Storting requested documentation from all relevant meetings between the SSB and the Ministry of Finance already in the first round of questions in November. Nevertheless, it was only after a complaint from the VG to the Civilombodsmann that they were made available to the Stortinget on the basis of transparency in relation to two meetings in January and 19 September. These were in addition to publicity. Firstly, these documents did not support the version of the Minister of Finance, nor did they weaken its version. Second, they made written comments, but this had not been done for the first round to the Civilomebodsman. In area by area, it becomes clear that Siv Jensen and the Ministry of Finance have tried to rewrite history through varying explanations on key issues, missing documentation on central claims and irregular communication with the Civilo Ombudsman and attempted to hold back information to the Stortinget. In many ways we have witnessed a farce in the Ministry of Finance in this matter. In the theatre world, the father often begins by the fact that the principal has done something that one goes a long way in trying to do or hide. According to first amannuensis Knight current at Oslo Met, the events in a farce often constitute a ‘rolling snowball of confusion, with all kinds of exaggerations’ and often contain ‘a complex and quite unrelated intrigue’. The farce has many similarities with the sophistication media, according to the first amannuensis. It's tragic that we recognize this from the dad in this case. The reality is really surpassing most of the time. It is a very open question now whether we have a finance minister we can trust, and therefore the trust of the Ministry of Finance is unclear. It is also a fact that the Statistical Office of the country has tried our politicized and detailed direction. And – something that was the starting point for this whole thing – it's still completely in the blue why Meyer really had to go. Was it pressure from the Progress Party’s group meeting that meant that the Minister of Finance had to act in favour of an SSB chief who was known to be in favour of immigration? Was it because she changed her mind about the reform? We still don't know. The hearings have shown that the Minister of Finance is unable to provide a good explanation or document this. It's good that a collusion is now a point for reorganization. It stops Meyer and the Minister of Finance in two teams, against the advice of both added and central users. I would like to add that the matter is more serious, and in the future, the Stortinget must pay extra attention to what the Ministry of Finance is doing. The shadows will hang over Jensen and the Ministry of Finance for a long time. The performance they have shown in this matter is anything but a confidence-provoking one.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e994	The essence of the matter is whether the Ministry of Finance has challenged the autonomy of the Agency through political pressure and override or otherwise acted across the rules of the case that led to Christine Meyer's resignation. The SSB has an important societal mission. They shall contribute to the statistics, models, analyses and research needed by the Norwegian society, while providing information for statistical purposes for research purposes and public planning. The Agency is an important premiscuous provider for wage-earnings and also has the primary responsibility for international statistical cooperation. This is information that must be based on trust. It is important to have clear guidelines on the relationship between the Ministry of Finance and the SSB and that there is a common understanding of the tasks and activities of the SSB. The question now is whether the border between policy and the professional integrity of the SSB and independence is challenged or broken. I refer to the rapporteur's review and would like to focus on a couple of issues that we in the Christian People's Party have been particularly concerned about in this matter, as a basis for our assessments and conclusions. Firstly, the governance dialogue: a red thread in the case has been how the management of the SSB has been carried out by the Ministry of Finance, with the Council of State as the one responsible for the process leading to the departure of the SSB Director. In this context, the letter of allocation sent by the Ministry of Finance to the SSB at the beginning of each year is available and the formal structures are available through governance dialogues. At the same time, there has been an ongoing dialogue with more informal meeting points, and much of this has been given considerable attention in this matter. In the hearings, the Minister of Finance has been concerned that the Ministry must be able to express its views even beyond the formal written governance dialogue, as the Right and the Advance Party also point out in their comments in the vote. I do not disagree with this, and I recognise the need for ongoing dialogue. The question is, however, whether the process has been tidy, whether there has been a clear enough borderline between what has been an informal dialogue and what has been a control signal, and the lack of writing that has contributed to weakening the cleanness of the processes. With regard to the role and position of the SSB Board: the Governing Board appears more as an advisory body to the Director than is the usual task of a traditional board. Normally, the Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the entire business, but in this case it may appear that the Board has been placed to a large extent on the sideline of the process between the Ministry of Finance and the SSB. For example, the Board of Directors has: not regularly attend dialogue meetings between the Director of the SSB and the Ministry of Finance. The Christian People's Party believes there is a need to clean up this governance structure. Today, the organisation appears to be unclear and with unclear roles and weak sense of role among the actors. In particular, this Governing Board of the SSB shall apply. Instead, it should have a more visible and formal role, in our opinion, in facilitating the operation by the SSB of the mission they receive from the Ministry of Finance. Furthermore, the management dialogue has had a clear character of informal structure, which I was at the beginning. Although the Council of State in the hearing underlined that the informal part of the governance dialogue does not repeal the written governance, but characterises it as a complement, the combination of informal conversations and the lack of agreed reports has created an unfair impression. The dialogues and informal processes, as the Christian People's Party perceives, have given rise to different interpretations, partly also in violation of the signals given by the formal letter of assignment. With major reorganisation processes in progress, it is particularly important that the dialogue has a unique formal character. There must be clear signals about the understanding of the mission and on-going feedback in the process. The signals, basis and direction must be understood by the persons involved and must be verifiable. Meetings held due to the need for clear en route clarifications in major reorganisation processes must have accurate reports. That's why the Christian People's Party is behind what the majority say about this in the vote. It is therefore good, as the Council of State has expressed in its communication with the Committee, that she wishes to add to a closer formal follow-up of the SSB in the future. The Council of State announces the holding of third-party formal meetings with agreed minutes. This shall be part of the formal management dialogue. It is also clear that the Chairperson of the Management Board shall be given room for these meetings. This suggests that some of the obvious weaknesses linked to the role and mandate of the Board of Directors will be better clarified through a clearer sense of role in the future. The second main point in this case has been the timeline. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it has been quite right to stop the process of conversion in the SSB. All parties in the Committee agree. However, the control case is about the Ministry of Finance's management of the Executive Director Meyer's resignation – not if it was right to stop the reorganisation. A key point in this case is whether the Ministry of Finance asked the Executive Director to suspend the entire restructuring process in the SSB until the end of the statistical division. Based on the written material available in the case, it may appear that the extensive reorganisation process was supported and partly accelerated by the Ministry of Finance from the appointment of Meyer, the appointment of the Bye Committee and until the process that led to her departure. As we read the papers and documents, it was only 30 October 2017 that the department put its foot down for real. The ministry, in the view of the Christian People's Party, has tried to create a picture that the signals from the ministry were much clearer before, and that Meyer should have changed course. However, there is little evidence to support the Ministry’s view of the timeline. At the same time, in our opinion, there has been a communication between the Department and the SSB that has been overly and in too many cases characterised by an informal tone and without verifiable evidence. References from meetings between the Department and the SSB contribute to the strengthening of the image of the rigour in the machinery. Reports from meetings of the Committee were not available. The Committee’s request to be sent to the Minister of Finance by letter of 22 November 2017 was initially not met. Only after correspondence between the Civil Ombudsman and the Ministry of Finance following a request for transparency from the VG, where the Civil Ombudsman concluded that the requested documents were to be regarded as factual documents in the sense of the law, did the Minister of Finance decide to forward the minutes. Reports have been requested and three of them have been published after the Committee has so requested. That's why, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the content of the minutes can be seen as having changed, and that not only has a reading guide, as the Minister of Finance has claimed, been given, as a result of handwritten endorsements. The endorsements are perceived by us as having changed the view of what was originally written here. This makes it clear that there is an unclear signal in the management dialogue – given what you really meant in the first place. This underpins the informal and somewhat rough way in which the ministry, in our opinion, has managed the governance dialogue. It must be stressed that the minutes referred to here are not joint reports intended for the public and that the status of the documents must be assessed accordingly. The status of the documents is controversial, yet the Christian People's Party believes that this way of changing content in retrospect is critical. Summarized, by the Christian People's Party, we believe that there is reason to criticize the ministry's handling of the matter. The Ministry's reference to the timeline is not credible. The Ministry has sub-communicated how late the department actually put its foot down and formally stopped the reorganisation. And it's been too much of informal control. One consequence is, among other things: have demonstrated a lack of reprobability. At the same time, there has been unclear role understanding between actors. The Christian People's Party believes this is critical. Changes must occur, and the Christian People's Party therefore has clear expectations that the Council of State will follow this up and take lessons from what has happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1032	The background to this case is that the Executive Director of the Statistical Central Agency in 2017 initiated a reorganisation of the research activities that would endanger the capacity of the SSB to provide analyses and investigations. The Agency's analysis is an important basis for the ministries, the Stortinget, the social partners and others. The Agency develops and maintains key calculation models. The conversion provided a clear signal to the researchers in the SSB that work on these models would not be given significant importance in the future business. At the same time, several of the models were prioritised by key employees and the models separated. The conversion came after the Ministry of Finance had previously rejected a proposal from the management of the SSB to wind up several of the models that are central to the Ministry. As early as 2016, the government had set up a public body to investigate the new law on official statistics and the SSB, including the evaluation of the Agency’s research activities. It is apparent from the official governance dialogue that the Ministry early warned the SSB against making changes that would anticipate the conclusions of the sample and expressed concerns that the transitions would weaken the ability to deliver on the societal mission. The matter came to an end in October and November, when the CEO put the disputed reorganisation into practice, despite our warnings. More than one SSB raised critical questions. The matter was also discussed in Stortinget. In the Questionnaire on 8 November 2017, among others, representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik from the Central Party questions to me: ‘What will the Governing Council act against the SSB and does the Council of State trust that the current SSB management is the most suitable one to lead the SSB out of the current crisis?’ It is my responsibility to Stortinget that the SSB delivers in line with its social mission and the specific orders from the department. It was therefore necessary to call Christine Meyer, Managing Director, to meet with me, but I was unfortunately only more disturbed by the conversations. I had not taken my responsibility seriously if I closed my eyes to what seemed increasingly obvious to me: I no longer had confidence that Meyer would be able to lead the SSB further in a way that provided sufficient security for deliveries from the SSB, was gathering for the organisation and restoring confidence in the SSB in the public. A few hours after Meyer got acquainted with this, she contacted her lawyer and announced that she had intended to withdraw. She chose to leave herself, and I believe that was the right choice where we stood. I notice that the Control and Constitutional Committee seems to agree with the outcome of the process. An overall committee writes in the setting: ‘After the Committee’s assessment, it was entirely right to stop the migration process on 10 November 2017.’ When the Committee unanimously and clearly expresses its support for the outcome, but nevertheless encourages criticism, it must be the way in which the Committee is critical. The criticism seems to be spreading along two tracks – I should have been more intrusive, but I should have intervened less. It therefore does not seem that there is any longer a question of whether my stop order was in conflict with the professional independence of the SSB, such as. former Director Meyer has claimed, and so the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs set out in its investigations as a specific issue. On the contrary, the majority of the Committee considers it ‘critical that the Minister of Finance does not use the possibility of instructing the SSB’. So the majority believe that on the one hand, I should have intervened strongly in the SSB with an instruction. On the other hand, the majority of us believe that we went beyond our right to administrative governance when we communicated a simple point of view, namely the importance of the models and their key personnel being grouped in the same section. And in this context, it was even made clear from the department that there was no instruction. I feel pretty sure that if I had instructed the SSB at an earlier time, as the majority seems to think, critical questions about the SSB's independence would come with great strength. Alternatively, I could have waited longer to intervene. It's my opinion that it would lead to a more demanding situation, which would further weaken the SSB's ability to deliver on its community mission. In addition, it would mean an acceptance that our control signals are not being followed. So I made a decision, and I stand for it – also in the light of the after-clock. I also notice that the majority of the committee points out that I expressed a lack of trust in Meyer, calling it an ‘instrument’ for which I ‘have no basis’. I would like to point out that the question of trust is not an instrument, but rather a reality. Whether I had confidence in Meyer, in my view, was a significant relationship, and as I had a good basis for thinking anything about. As I said, it is my responsibility to Stortinget that the SSB delivers in line with its social mission and the specific orders from the department. As mentioned above, the trust question was asked by the representative of Gülsvik in Stortinget’s Question Time on 8 November 2017. At that time, at least the Central Party must have considered this as a relevant question that I should answer. Have we learned anything from this matter? The governance structure and the division of roles between the Executive Director and the Chairperson and the Ministry are not clearly described in the 1989 Statistics Act. clarifying this, and in particular clarifying the role of the board, was one of the aims of setting up the Statistics Law Committee. The committee gave its vote on 19 March, and we have now sent the vote to a wide-ranging hearing with the deadline at the end of June. We will then come back to Stortinget with our assessments and suggestions. So far, we have the old law, and as I have previously announced, within this framework, we will propose that the board also attend the formal management meetings with the department. We also see that it can be an advantage with a more frequent formal governance dialogue and will move from this year to three meetings this year in the planned regular management dialogue with the SSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1076	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1081	In connection with Christine Meyer's appointment as Director of the Statistical Central Bureau, there were quite strong and heavy forces that suggested that this could look like a political employment on the basis of a changed political course for the SSB. In that context, I have a short question, because it is right that the Council of State said, no one has regretted that process being stopped. But I have a specific question: does the Council of State think it was a proper employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1086	At the time we were working with Christine Meyer, it was with a very clear framework for what a new director would do, among other things. convert and streamline the Central Statistical Office. At that point, I thought it was a proper job. I want to stress that it was not political. We thought she was professionally qualified. Unfortunately, this case got the outcome. It is primarily because she did not do what I expect from the manager, namely that they listen to and follow up the job signals coming from the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1091	Some of the basis for the question is, as I was in my introduction, that there has been a consensus on the SSB. It has been widely agreed that the front-school model in Norway is important, that it is important for central wage-setting and important for the development of the Norwegian economy. Then it's a well-known case that there are other environments like this. is more for the so-called DSGE models, and is responsible for a different policy direction. Many thought that could be the case with Christine Meyer – when she was hired. My question is: does the Council of State agree that what the Holden III Committee pointed to in relation to the front-stage model, and the model we have for the payroll business in Norway – that is, a central element of the Norwegian model – and the role of the SSB in it, is something that should be continued?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1097	Yeah, I totally agree with that. It's some of the things that have been important to me and the ministry throughout this process. We have said that the SSB must also be streamlined and reorganised. However, we have always stressed the importance of fulfilling the societal mission, the importance of not forging the recommendations and conclusions of the Statistical Clover Committee. By that I believe that we have also been very clear on the role that TBU and others have – that is, that the SSB has in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1102	Does this mean that we can then be safe, in line with the vote's proposal for Decision II, that until there has been a democratic debate, even in the daily development of the SSB or in the relationship between the SSB and the Ministry of Finance, we will see some transition to the more – some say – politicised models for which DSGE is a collective concept? So we can be sure that the model apparatus that has served Norwegian society well for many decades will be continued, and at least not changed until there has been a democratic debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1107	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1112	Then the decision of the Storting has worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1117	There is no doubt that we are some that it was right to stop the process. What we're challenging is that it's been working as if the department's been on the process for too long before it was said to stop. Former research director Kjetil Telle said in his hearing that the Ministry of Finance can instruct the SSB to analyse what kind of problem settings you want. At the same time, it is equally clear that the Ministry of Finance cannot instruct the SSB in the conclusions of the analyses. Is the Council of State agreed in such an assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1124	I am glad that everyone seems to agree that it was right to stop the process when it was stopped. But I disagree that the Ministry of Finance took too long to get there. I believe that in the written governance dialogue, we were very clear that yes, the SSB should be reorganised and streamlined, but within the framework that we were very clear about drawing, that is, that one should not pre-empt the Statistics Law Committee and that one should fend for the societal mission. Of course, when it comes to the question of what we can instruct in, it's very clearly defined. This concerns in particular the professional content produced by the Agency. But we must not forget that any of the authority exercised by the SSB has been delegated from the ministry and can be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1131	But Telle said something more in that context. He said, ‘But when the Ministry of Finance instructs us to use a specific method and in addition affects who we set to do the job, it could in reality also be predicted what the conclusion is.’ Does the Council of State think it is strange if we become unsure of the results of the SSB?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1141	I think we all fully agree that what is supplied and produced by the Statistical Central Bureau should have broad confidence from all parties in society, no matter what political stance you have, or what you intend to use it for. It is absolutely unimaginable that that independence enjoys confidence in all camps. It has always been important for me to ensure independence, and I experience that the same thing comes from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1152	But I don't think you're answering my question. When former research director may say that the department instructs us to use a specific method and affects who is to do the job, it will also affect what the conclusion is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1157	But I don't think we have. Of course, it has been important for the Ministry of Finance to focus on some of the models that are essential for the SSB to deliver on its societal mission. I do not feel that there is any disagreement about this either. We are in our full right to do that model protection. But one of the issues in this context was to separate the models and the manufacturers of the models. It would not be appropriate then to maintain the models, all the time they could not be operated on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1163	It's very nice to right the article to the Council of State, it continues to serve an alternative story. The problem is that your department has not intervened. The problem is that the ministry has definitely intervened, and throughout the whole process our closeness to the SSB and the whole reorganization process, but then suddenly turns in October and stands for something else. A final result, but it's a reverse operation from the department's side. In view of the fact that a majority of the Stortinget now simply does not believe in the explanation provided by the Minister of Finance – there is no credibility behind the timeline served by the Department, a number of people don't believe in her – how does the Minister of Finance feel about not being trusted in anything as important as how the annual accounts are?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1170	First, I don't serve an alternative story, either to the Control Committee or to the Stortinget. It is absolutely right that the ministry has been close to this process all the way. It is quite right that the Ministry has warned against carrying out too large reorganisations, which would jeopardize the social mission or would pre-empt the Statistikklovcommittee. We've been clear and clear all along. But we have also been clear and clear about the need to streamline and reorganise the Statistical Central Agency. It is the task of a Ministry of Ownership to be in close dialogue with its underlying offices, often to ensure and ensure that they follow up the guidance signals they receive through letters of assignment and through the agreed records, which are the written management dialogue between a department and a department. I do not feel that we have turned around at all, but we had to stop this when our objections were not heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1177	That's a blank error. The Ministry has not been quite sure that one should wait for the Statistics Clover Selection. In the non-famous principle note to the SSB board at the end of April – the ministry was explicit in writing – they say that this reorganisation should continue independently of the legislative proposal. There's a fact in this case. But it seems that the Minister of Finance just ignores the things that are not consistent with her main explanation. It's only necessary for Stortinget to take note that we have a finance minister who has such a relationship with facts. I want to ask a question about this with confidence, because I thought it was unclear what the Minister of Finance put in it, because in the reply the Minister of Finance says that it is not her place to express trust or distrust. Was it wrong for the Minister of Finance to express distrust?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1184	Let me first say that I disagree with the description of this by the representative of Fylkesnes. With regard to this principle note, the Ministry of Finance attempted to make views and recordings that Meyer did not make. It's also worth noting. But when it comes to the question of trust, I was asked, even from the Storting, to express whether I had confidence or not had confidence that Christine Meyer was the right person to continue leading the SSB in the future. At some point, I had to express it, and I did.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1189	The point here is that it is completely irrelevant if the Council of State feels any kind of trust or distrust. One likes to know the private, but it's completely irrelevant in the position you have as a government council, to know it when the person is named by the King of State Council. That's the point right there. I thought the post to the Council of State created an uncertainty as to whether the Minister of Finance would act correctly in relation to the law. It is completely irrelevant whether the Minister of Finance experiences something — distrust here or there. My question is again: was it wrong for the Minister of Finance to express distrust with the obvious consequences this would have for the head of the SSB?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1194	It may not have been irrelevant, all the time I was asked questions about this from Storting's pulpit. At the time, I had not finished the process, and I also stated from Stortingen's pulpit that I was in a process that I had to complete. I expressed that I no longer had confidence. But it was Christine Meyer who chose to leave, which I also – as I said in my post – think was right that she did, as the case had evolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1199	The correct answer to the question when, let's say, a representative of the Grand Duchy asks whether the Minister of Finance has confidence or not, would have been that it is not my place to express distrust or trust in a person named by the King of the Council of State. But the Minister of Finance did that with the consequences it got. This is directly contrary to how one should perceive the law and the role of the Minister of Finance. I ask again – because I think the letter of reply is marked in these areas, but I didn't think the idea of the Minister of Finance here in the store is that it creates new uncertainty – was it right or wrong for the Minister of Finance to distrust the former SSB leader?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1204	I believe it was absolutely right of me to state that I no longer trusted that she was the right person to continue to lead the SSB in the future. In the wake of that, Christine Meyer chose to resign, and I think that was the right outcome. But the representative of the Knag County said on his previous question something about whether this Council of State will deal with the law. Yes, of course I'll deal with the law. All states councils have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1211	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1216	In its 142 years of life, the Central Statistical Office has provided an important statistical basis, not least for the calculation of wages and salaries. This is how the Agency represents a competence and a professional infrastructure that is an important basis for tripartite cooperation. The legal independence of the SSB has given the Agency’s analyses and numerically high legitimacy to the social partners and to the authorities. The confidence in the analyses and statistics is fundamental in the Norwegian tripartite model. If not everyone can have confidence in the analyses The technical calculation committee comes in front of the pay statements, the pay statements will be much more demanding. Numerical data related to the models in which the calculations are carried out. When discussing changes by an actor who plays such an important role in Norwegian society, we should be cautious about sudden changes without adequate professional security. It concerns independence, models and research activity. We have noticed that the Council of State today has fenced around the models that the SSB has traditionally used in its work. We have to make sure that the result is also in the continuation. There have been major concerns about the reorganisation of the SSB. The SSB is subject to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the ongoing administration of the branch. Thus, Minister of Finance Siv Jensen is the top responsible for the proper management and management of the SSB, and not least that our National Statistical Agency has confidence in the parties, in the population and in society at large. The SSB and the research department can rightly claim to have made valuable contributions to social development in Norway and have at times been an active, reliable and highly respected participant in the societal debate. The mission of the SSB shall not be underestimated. In the Statistiksgesetz, the Storting stated that the SSB is a professionally independent institution. It is clear from the preparatory work of the Act that the Ministry is thus unable to instruct the SSB on research and statistical matters. The models of the Central Bureau of Statistics are key tools for the Ministry of Finance and for the parties in the Stortingen to draw up alternative budget lines. It also applies to the social partners and the formation of wages, which is the main venue for the good distribution of value creation in Norway. The mission of society must be carried out in such a way as to safeguard the professional weight of the SSB, while at the same time having confidence and freedom, in order to enable them to develop further. Staff and management must handle and understand the important societal task, while mastering the modelling tools. We in the Workers' Party will stress the importance of avoiding changes that could weaken the SSB. An important point is that the analyses and any recommendations come from an independent institution – with an arm’s length distance from politicians. There must be no room for doubt that the activities of the SSB are independent of who is the Minister of Finance or the party from which they originate. This does not mean that the SSB will no longer evolve and be able to change as new insights, new models and professional development take place. But then it is important that there is a broad consensus on the basis of the changes, that changes in the scope of research or model choices have a broad foundation among the social partners, authorities and trade unions. It hasn't been the case now, some of the concerns that are created, and that has made us now have this case in the hall, is a good proof of. The central statistical agency has an important role in Norwegian society. That role shall continue to be played by the SSB. If the SSB is to produce and disseminate statistics and analyses of the highest quality, we need to ensure that the SSB is structured and organised in a way that gives us confidence that their publications reflect professional independence. The professional independence of the SSB implies that they decide for themselves what to publish and when and where to do so. The Working Party is pleased that a unanimous control committee determines that, if substantial changes are to be made to the SSB, they shall be debated in this Chamber. We are therefore looking forward to a case from the State Council to the Stortinget when the Ministry has made its assessments of the Statistics Committee's report. It can be an interesting debate – we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1244	The right-wing views on the matter have been explained, including: by the representative of Flölo, so I will not spend so much time on it. I'll go through the timeline one more timeline, because I think it's well referred to in the hall. Some comments are still in place. The committee has done a thorough job. We've had two hearings, and there's been a lot of communication between the ministry and the committee. Nevertheless, I think I can see that there is a strange use of the information we have received. I think I can see that when we have asked questions about dialogue, it is used in response to the governance dialogue, or vice versa. Because there are many kinds of dialogue. When talking about reports, notes and agreed reports, the answers are used for each other. There has been a little frustrating in the matter, and I just want to stress that it is important to distinguish between individual records and notes and agreed records, which have a completely different position in such a dialogue. Similarly, there has been an ongoing theme about the cessation of migration. It is a fact that the director of the SSB was assigned to carry out the conversion. Parts of that transition have gone its way and been implemented, while there are parts of the transition this discussion is really about. And then finally, the question of when it's right to put your foot down. I've had the pleasure of being with and following the development of four children. I can at least say that the after-school clock has increased significantly during the years I have followed them, and I think it is important to remember that someone in retrospect might say that someone should have put their feet down at another time – sooner or later – but I think it is a little strange to bring along. I think everyone is acting in good faith and in good sense when they give signals that a let thing goes on. The task of the Control and Constitutional Committee is to look back at what has happened. We have taken that seriously, and we have done so thoroughly in this matter. But it's also important to look forward, and I think it's good that one of the conclusions, that is Roman number II, looks forward. This matter obviously needs a review and clarification of the roles and mandates of the Statistical Central Bureau, not least the position of the Governing Board – I would have almost said if it were to be a Governing Board – what role should they have, and how should they be involved? There have been several speakers. The basic thing is, how are we to ensure trust in what the SSB delivers? I am very pleased that the chairman of the committee has made it clear that when this is to be followed up – and that should be – it is the professional committees that are going to work on it. It is not the task of the Control and Constitutional Committee. Now that we are adopting II today on an open, democratic debate, including one of the issues of the Stortinget, it is making it possible for the Stortinget, through the Trade Committees, to assess the measures proposed, and to support them or take other decisions, which, of course, the department will follow up. That's probably the most important result for me of this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1260	At the end of the debate, I just want to say that it is right, as the representative Harberg says, that there has been a slightly different use of terms related to the role of notes, documents and referees in the governance dialogue. I just need to remember that some of the reasons why it has become confusing are that some of the meetings that have not been recorded, but from which there are notes, have been referred by the Council of State as important elements of the governance dialogue. That is why we have asked for many documents and not just the public records from the formal governance dialogue. Otherwise, at the end of the debate, I would say that I am still a little surprised that the Council of State is holding on to the fact that there have been clear signals throughout the process, despite the fact that we have received a reply that it was stopped on 30 October. It reminds me a little bit of saying something other than that a seaman documents, and it makes me think that in another function I was here in a discussion with the finance minister earlier about the increased differences in Norway, when the Council of State stood here and said no, the differences in Norway are not increasing. I sent the day after a question to the department, which confirmed that the differences in Norway increased. The Council of State has then repeated that differences in Norway do not increase. It is a new form of debate. Some of the basics of the SSB should just be that we don't get into that situation, but we can agree on what's the actual ratio. I think what she said, is also a confirmation of what the Council of State said in its statement that the Statistics Division was going to look at the research activity. No, the Statistiklovscommittee has said that they did not see it as part of the first mandate, if the Council of State still refers to it. That was why, on 10 October, the Council of State did not actually clarify the mandate, but extended it so that the sample would also look at that part of it. What was stated in the original mandate was that they should look at whether it should be required by law to carry out research activities – just so we have facts in place. Otherwise, the impression is that it should have been said stop many times, which one does not see of the notes and meeting references we have seen, rather on the contrary. It's kind of amazing that a government council remembers as well as others who have been at the meetings, don't remember. But let me go over to the more positive. I found the answers I received in the reply ring to be uplifting. What we're concerned about is that for the future we should be able to have an SSB that makes its professional judgements on a purely professional basis, and that, as confirmed by the Council of State, it won't be able to transition to completely different models or other grips at that stage until it's discussed on a professional basis. I expect that this also applies to the department's own work on models – I assume that there is a certain connection. That's why I think it's good that the conclusion to this long, thorough process is actually, as the representative Harberg had in mind, the decision in II, which I understand the Council of State has said she's going to follow up. One of the things that obviously needs to be discussed is the role of the board, which has been very unclear, as a result of previous treatment in 1989. Whether it is to be clarified or changed, professionals are allowed to discuss it. It's going to be discussed by the politicians after all. But finally, in line with the spirit of developments in the SSB, the front-line model, the income policy cooperation and all that the SSB has contributed to and based on, I hope that the Council of State in its further work on what she has now received from the Statistics Law Committee, and which is being consulted, will not only allow the parties to be heard in the formal way. In fact, I hope that the Council of State uses the good experience we have with the Norwegian model, and let the parties help to conclude with solutions that can serve the tripartite cooperation that has served our country so well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1275	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1291	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1300	Thank you to the Committee for good work in good tradition. Today we are dealing with a draft representative which originally consisted of four proposals. Proposals from the Workers' Party and the Green Party will strengthen the competence of public purchasers with a view to ensuring climate and environmental weight in public acquisitions, and the need to report regularly on the share of green public acquisitions. The last two proposals were, respectively, the establishment of a national purchasing competence centre and, lastly, the establishment of a risk-relief mechanism to strengthen public procurement with a focus on climate-friendly and environmentally friendly acquisitions. The Committee recognises the significant market power of the public sector and the importance of the procurement role. There is always room for improvement and knowledge development, and properly used, the market power of the public contributes to the maturity of young markets and, in some cases, also to the creation of new ones. Public procurement is an important driver of innovation and development and paves the way for innovators. The Committee sees some green purchases removed due to risk assessments. The competent knowledge environment is a strength to achieve the objective of greening public procurement, and it is important to know how much public procurement is green and how development is over time, i.e. if the proportion is actually increasing. As we can see from the Committee's comments, there is agreement on this description of reality and on the importance of what public purchasers actually can and do in order to achieve the objective it also agrees on. Therefore, it may be surprising at first sight that two of the proposals did not survive until today, and that the two remaining ones do not get a majority today. The simple answer to this is that, in general, the measures requested have been either taken care of or initiated. We agree on the need for enhanced competence, risk relief, the National Centre for Purchasing Competence and regular reporting. These are areas where efforts can and should be strengthened. Thus, today's small disagreement is ultimately about the existing arrangements and ongoing work responding well enough to the challenges we agree on. I would therefore like to briefly say something about all four proposals. First, to strengthen the competence of purchasers. The Directorate for Administration and ICT, also known as diffi, has already received strengthened budgets, both to build more competence on green public procurement and to improve the guidance on procurement. Further work is in progress on developing concrete requirements and criteria, and expert groups have been set up within several categories, and supervisors have also been developed for purchasers. I can mention some of the categories: construction, transportation, food, ICT and waste management. Difi has also carried out so-called zero point measurements and is responsible for statistics on purchases. Any improvements will be discussed in a forthcoming big message. It should also be noted briefly that diffi is a national centre of competence for purchasing skills. To the last proposal, about a risk regime, I can mention that this is started after an order from Stortinget. In a decision referred to in Prop. 1 S for 2017–2018 asked the Stortinget to investigate how a risk regime for public acquisitions can be designed. In response, the Government in its reply to the Committee has indicated that, as a result of that Decision, a risk-reducing subsidy scheme has been established through Innovation Norway. In other words, it is better use of public resources that we do not today adopt the proposals or debate unnecessarily, but instead concentrate on tasks and challenges that are not yet addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1315	We're the first generation to notice climate change, and we're the last to do anything about it," said Obama. Now, I may not belong entirely to the same generation as Obama and most of them here on the Storting, but in the future, we will still, like the same period of politicians on the Stortinget, be condemned for our political grip on the climate in this period. One of the simplest means we can use to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is just high public decision requirements. The country must take the lead in making climate-friendly and environmentally friendly choices in public procurement and, fortunately, it is a cross-political agreement. There is no doubt that diffi has good competence in this area, but it needs to be further strengthened, and there is also cross-political agreement on this. There is a need to further strengthen the Digit department of government acquisitions compared to the weak investment made by the government. At present, it is not possible to read from diffi’s web pages on key figures and statistics, the proportion of green purchases. For further work, it is important that the Storting receive annual feedback on the proportion of public acquisitions that meet the 30 pst requirement. weighting of climate and environmental considerations, as provided for in the Regulation. The Divis report on the monitoring of environmental requirements in public procurement for 2015, from 2016, shows that only 0.4 pst. acquisitions have actually weighted the environment by 30 pst. or more. This is only 1 out of about 250 calls in the study sample. Public acquisitions continue to contribute to greenhouse gas emissions of around 12 million. tonnes of CO 2 per year. Profit analyses from Oslo Economics, in cooperation with Cicero and Inventura, ten examples of green acquisitions, show a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of a total of 70 pst. These examples succeed in leading the supply market to offer more environmentally friendly alternatives to vehicles, services and construction. In two of these cases, operating costs were actually reduced. At the same time, by being ahead and facilitating more green acquisitions, environmentally friendly technologies can be developed and costs reduced in the future. It is a pity, therefore, that the government and the Minister for Industry show a lack of will for stronger action. This can be done by strengthening the competence of public purchasers and by introducing a new risk-reduction mechanism in the context of the 2019 government budget, in order to strengthen public procurement focusing on innovation and climate-friendly acquisitions. That is the background to the proposal. That would have served the climate. Because we already notice the consequences of climate change, and we have to do something about it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1335	The next speaker is Geir Pollestad. And maybe Pollestad can take up the suggestions that, among other things, The Labour Party is also involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1342	I can start by recording the two suggestions that are also behind the Central Party. Then I want to thank the case manager for the job. There is no doubt that it is important to focus on environmental concerns in public procurement; there is no doubt that public procurement is so large that it will be appropriate to influence suppliers and the market. I think there's been a lot of good work in the Storting in the area in recent years. We've changed the laws on public procurement, and we're waiting for a big message about public procurement. What matters to the Center Party is that we do this while fighting bureaucracy and ensuring that there is still a shortage of suppliers. The Labour Party and the Greens originally presented four proposals. The centre party thought two of these were good. This applies to the proposal to strengthen the competence of those making the purchases and to the proposal to offer risk relief to a greater extent than at present. One could have added another measure that I don't believe the Storting can adopt, but greater confidence among public buyers I think there's room for it. The centre party was critical of original proposals No. 2 and 3, from the Labour Party and the Environmental Party of the Greens. We think they were bureaucratic, and we should be careful to adopt things under the title of green procurement – for what time is a purchase green, and what time is it no longer green? I think it's more tidy to stick to "environmentally friendly", and then in the sense more environmentally friendly than the standard product. We are also pleased that the Labour Party itself has seen that the proposals made by the Centre were bad, bad, and that they have not produced them, so that we now have two proposals that come to voting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1357	The representative Geir Pollestad then addressed the proposals he referred to at the beginning of his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1362	I thank the case spokesperson for a good job. There has been a good cooperation in dealing with this matter. She's pretending to be some kind of pre-post-fection before a major review of all the public procurement laws, which we at the Stortinget are waiting for and excited about. Public procurement is a unique tool that Norway, with such a large public sector and such a great purchasing power, has to change. One can tackle several things that are a challenge with today’s system — first with emphasis. It has been agreed that one should weigh the green, the environmentally friendly, by 30 pst. And we know that in many cases it is not sufficient. An example recently was the release of the waste sector: even if one has 30 pst. weight, the economic weight was 50 pst. – and so it was an equidistant, it meant as little. So it's the devices of public procurement. For example, Norwegian steel often loses competition in Norway when it comes to public intervention, because a loss of price. At the same time as we have imposed the rather important and correct environmental requirements, there is no corresponding environmental requirement for the purchase of steel. Thus, a steel from suppliers who are from countries where the production of steel is less environmentally friendly buys. There is a paradox that there is no agreement between the environmental requirements we impose on industry and the rules we have for the purchase of the public – opens an area where we should improve. There's a big leak in the industry for Norway. Other areas that have our own up here are cement and CCS. Here you can use public procurement for a fairly targeted and perhaps exciting – I'm overindulging – industry with development in Norway where we can pick up CO 2 from one of the largest producers of CO 2 in the world, i.e. cement production, and link it to the development of carbon capture. The last is risk removal, which I think is very important. We know that many public actors refuse to make some daring purchases, whether they are very innovative or very green purchases. They often land on what is most tried and tested, and what is most common on the shelf. Establishing a risk download that relates to innovation and the environment, I think I'm an open right step to go and is a proposal that we're going to continue to pursue. We also proposed this in connection with the previous round with the amendment of the law on public procurement. Finally, I just want to say that there is actually no real green change in Norway today. In the last few years we have seen a decline in industry, and in a time of low prices and actually quite favourable export possibilities, the promise and change in Norwegian industry that we want to move from offshore to green land-based industry does not happen. Law on public procurement is an open possibility for us to contribute there, as one of several tools we have. And it surprises me that we are so withdrawn with regard to using the tools we actually have to target and build new industries. The loss of income we're going to get from a decline in offshore activity is going to be so great that if we don't build the corresponding income in other ways, we're going to have serious challenges in Norway. Then a number of pointers point to the Public Procurement Act. I look forward to further treatment of it, and I sincerely hope that the Storting dares to take action that will make us more progressive than what we are right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1381	I would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur for an excellent report on the matter in the same way as the previous ones. There is no doubt that many things can, of course, be much better, but it is a bit so that the proposals that are being addressed here are being worked per day. I think not least that the previous post, from the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, was a little strange. Of course, there are many paradoxes, but it is not possible to come from – I think – that the public to this extent has begun to stretch. During the periods I have had a good dialogue with the public, not least with the municipalities, I have seen significant progress in both county municipalities and municipalities in terms of thinking about the environment and climate – not least in the case of car parks, where there are electric cars to a much greater extent than they were in the past. I think it would be to talk a little bit about the job that municipalities and county councils have actually done so far. Then you could say that anything could get better. Yes, there is no doubt about it, but here I will in many ways agree with the representative Pollestad said. One should be a little careful considering that this is at the same time becoming a bureaucratic tiger, that we adopt so much that it is gradually not possible to consume for the public. I think we now have to take the pieces that we're working on, and where it's going pretty much its clear time, but we're going to be impatient and get this in place. I don't think the key is that one makes even more bureaucracy. I think that in many ways would be a hindrance to getting the right grips. I think what we've already done must work. Then we get to evaluate and evaluate all the time, because the objective is, of course, even more environmental and climate adaptation in public. But then it is that the best innovation often takes place in an interaction between private and public. Public innovation often needs to lean on the private sector to get the innovative, good solutions. It can often be a problem if you are not willing to also look at the opportunities that lie in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1392	The public sector has a significant purchasing power through annual purchases for 481 billion. kr. It's equal to 15 pst. of total GDP. If the public chooses to demand green solutions, it will help to create both innovation and a market in general for green products and services. The public can thus be a strong driver of new solutions. In recent years, this has increased on the agenda, among others. through a new acquisition law. Nevertheless, there is still room for improvement and knowledge development in public procurement. Public awareness and systematic public procurement can contribute to increased maturity and innovation of different suppliers. The intention of the proposal under consideration today by the Storting is therefore good. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party is of the opinion that the intention of the proposal is all taken care of in ongoing work. The minority in the Committee suggests that the Storting should call on the government to start work to strengthen the public purchaser’s competence in order to ensure real innovation, climate and environmental weighting through public acquisitions. As we see it, these are challenges and tasks that are currently largely carried out by the Directorate of Administration and ICT. The budget for diffi was increased by 15 million. kr from 2017, just to build competence on green acquisitions and provide guidance to public purchasers on how to take environmental considerations into account in the choice of product and supplier. We also note that in November 2017, Divi established the so-called Acquis, in cooperation with the major organisations in the labour, KS and higher education and university sectors. The aim of this measure is to build competence in public acquisitions, where environmental considerations in procurement processes are a central element. The aim is to establish a master's degree in public acquisitions and to strengthen continuing training and research in this field. In the case of statistics and measurements in the field of procurement, there is also a priority area and a central task in diffi. Zero point measurements were carried out in connection with the new green acquisition investment, and diffi will report on developments in green and climate-friendly acquisitions to the Ministry of Municipal and Modernisation every two years. We believe this in the Christian People's Party to be sufficient in view of the fact that acquisition processes necessarily take time. I believe that the government, by following up and further developing the work that is now taking place in diffi, has chosen the right track to achieve the objectives set by an overall committee. Furthermore, we record that there is already an investigation on how a risk regime for public acquisitions can be designed. So on this basis, the Christian People's Party will not support the proposals, but wait for the results that come out of the ongoing processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1409	Imagine that you're going shopping. Every morning you wake up with nearly a billion dollars in your wallet or in your purse. This is the everyday life of the Norwegian state, and the public is acting for almost 500 billion. kr every year. The question that both scientists, the Greens and I have asked, is: why is this money not being used smarter than today? That is why the Greens, together with the Workers' Party, have proposed this on the Stortinget. We need to remove the remaining barriers to green public procurement. Only then can the state – hopefully – contribute to real green growth and a real green shift. With its bold wallet, the state can become an important driver of change for all suppliers. We vote as familiar with the wallet, and therefore the state should vote much more consistently for better products from greener suppliers. This is how we can use the market mechanisms to create the green competition we need and to deliver. This will stimulate innovation and potentially trigger entirely new opportunities not only for Norwegian companies but also far beyond our borders. In the vast majority of cases today there are greener alternatives to choose from than those purchased by the country. However, a major challenge and barrier for purchasers in the public sector – it shows repeated scientific studies – is a lack of competence. How do you know if you buy the best and greenest product? Even though it may be a little more expensive in purchases, it will be saved in the long run because it will last longer. The fact that many purchasers experience this as difficult is not strange. For example, in the autumn of 2013 the funds earmarked for strengthening environmental competence in public procurement, torn off by the blue government. Only after listening to protests was the aid relaunched, and in the meantime has both the Committee of Experts on Green Competitiveness and e.g. Menon recommends the establishment of a national centre of excellence for procurement with a focus on green procurement. The Centre of Competence could ensure that government bodies were better trained in and accessible to more relevant competences on the precise acquisition of green and innovative solutions. But while the government is on the verge, the Green Party has pledged this proposal to create a clearer centre, based on the already existing systems and environments of competence, such as Diffi. The Minister of Industry's response to this proposal refers to 15 million. kr to Digi – as other representatives have also mentioned – and a total of 10 million. kr to the LUP, which has also been granted. This effort is a typical Right-Greenwashing: one boasts of small and unstable appropriations, instead of doing what is really needed. So this is going to be 500,000 million. kr in purchases, which may be used to green more rapidly and in a competent and responsible manner under a new purchasing law and regulation. But only 0.03 per million, i.e. 0.003 pst., of the purchase volume for improving competence, is allocated to, among other things. life cycle analysis and life cycle costs. This is ridiculously small in relation to the savings potential, i.e. the future cost reduction that innovation-driven green procurement allows. In a report by Divi and the Environment Directorate, prepared by, among others: Oslo Economics demonstrates that acquisitions such as green health homes, electric cars and others provide solid socio-economic profitability over time. Thousands of public purchasers need a solid stepping-up of efforts to increase their green purchasing skills. I am a little stated about the term ‘the green shift’, which thanks to the Right has become a nearly hollowed-out term. An actual green shift, however, is one of the most important things that politicians can contribute to. That is why I am pleased with this proposal that the Greens have drawn up, and which we have worked with the Labour Party to promote, for the next time the state brings out the wallet and goes shopping, public leaders should base more climate-friendly priorities on our common billions than they do today. Then we can get a real green shift, and not swam about a sustainable welfare state, without any real follow-up that can be documented. Then I think it's sad that both the Christian People's Party and the Left in this case swallows Right's greenwashing that everything that's going to happen is already happening. Numbers, studies and research show the opposite. I'm in despair!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1433	We'll have a good opportunity in the future to discuss public acquisitions more. It's a lot of money, so before I say anything about the green thing about this, I want to say that I agree with those who have pointed out that this is about finding a balance between different considerations. We're going to have public procurement primarily because we're going to buy goods and services for the public, and we're going to do it at a good price. This is about respect for taxpayers' money. We also want to have a code that is not too bureaucratic and crooked, simply because it should be easy to handle from the public side, which allows us to use our money sensibly. In particular, those who sell goods and services to the public should have as simple and transparent a regulatory approach as possible, not least because we also want those who sell to the public to be not only the heavy players. We want small businesses, medium-sized enterprises, for example. a hotel in Bergen, which does not have a hotel chain throughout the country, will also have the opportunity to participate in the competition. On top of that, we also – and this is important – want public procurement to be used to promote specific policies and some things that are important for the interests of the community when we spend 500 billion. kr per year. Environmental public acquisitions are a government investment area. That is why we have put in place our own environmental provisions in the procurement legislation, both in the law and in the regulations. That's the framework we have. However, as the proposal for a representative rightly points out, legislation is not enough in itself, because it is the practice of legislation, the culture of this, how it is actually done in practice, which is crucial. This means that increased competence is important. It was probably Pollestad's representative who mentioned something about culture, or that you have to dry more – that's important. It also has another side, because as politicians and elected representatives, we may have to tolerate more sometimes. Not to have bad purchases, to waste money or to have billions of dollars, but sometimes to take a little more risk if you are to make innovative or environmentally friendly purchases. Knowledge and statistics are important for our benefit, efficiency and environmentally friendly acquisitions. The government's response to Document 8 proposal is that it seems here that the whole Storing, all the parties, agree on the principles, and that we are already doing well to strengthen this work. It doesn't mean that we're against this, or that we don't have the will to do this – rather on the contrary, our answer is that this is important to the government, and that's why we're in the process. The budget of the Directorate for Administration and ICT, Diffi, and the EUR 15 million increase. kr has already been mentioned. They build competence on environmentally friendly acquisitions and guide public purchasers on how to take good environmental considerations into account. This means that each activity does not necessarily need to have environmental competence, at least not fully, but can avail itself of diffi’s guidance. With the increased funds, the Difi acquisition department has been able to build up and become a national centre of competence on public acquisitions, with around 60 employees. The work on statistics and on acquisition measurement is also a priority task — including for environmentally friendly acquisitions. This is not only going on internally in the Directorate for Administration and ICT, Diffi. It concerns national, it applies to the whole area of procurement, and all public enterprises can benefit from this. The public sector aims to promote innovative and environmentally friendly solutions through its acquisitions. The organisations I have met say that the legislation is no longer the big problem. It is the practice that is the problem today. Therefore, the National Supply Development and Strengthening Programme is important to promote innovative acquisitions, also because, to a very large extent and very often, green acquisitions will have to be innovative or innovative. The Supplier Development Programme shall enhance the innovation impact. We have also proposed a risk-reducing subsidy scheme for innovative public acquisitions, which are in place. In addition, an innovation contract scheme has been set up, providing research and development grants for cooperation between a supplier company and a customer, where the innovative solution can be developed. One of the secrets of this – also for green purchases – is that you may need to have a little more open tenders, not be so detailed about what you want, but develop them with the supplier. We also work with a big message, which has been mentioned. Then we will return to key issues such as increased competence, digitisation, governance, management, statistics, innovation, etc., which are important for the success of public procurement and the environmentally friendly acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1461	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1466	It says that "What you measure is what you get". I am pleased that the Council of State addresses this with the transition from legislation, which has now been improved by new procurement laws and regulations, to practices in the many thousands of public procurement functions we have. The original proposal therefore called for this to be reported as part of the annual reporting process. In this way, it can be raised to a strategic, practical level in the many public enterprises. It is argued against both by the Council of State in his reply and by the Committee. My question to the Council of State is: How will a change in practice be implemented if there is no reporting, measurement and feedback on improvement? That's what creates motivation and cultural change in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1471	I thought I would read up from my letter replying to Stortinget, and then you can assess whether it is to argue against: «The work on statistics and measurement in the field of procurement is a priority task in diffi, including for green acquisitions. In the context of the new green acquisition effort, zero point measurements were carried out of the requirements for the acquisition of transport and construction. The objective of diffi is to raise the requirements to be set from the zero point level. This shall be reported to the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation every two years.’;» And then you justify why it's not appropriate to measure it in every single year. So it's the beginning of this. This is also being done, and you can measure, check and test in other areas. I'm more than open to that. What the majority of people today say is that it is nice to have a debate to get an en route assessment from the government, but it is not always necessary to adopt it once until the government already works with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1483	Research shows, repeatedly in several studies, that the important thing is no longer neither legislation nor necessarily just measurements, but the transition to raising it to a greater strategic level. When research, for example: shows that only one of 244 acquisitions of 30 p.m. weighted environment, does the Council of State consider that research to be incorrect, that it is enough? Or he believes that the efforts the government is now making are sufficient to lift this up with the few funds allocated to diffi – the 15 million mentioned. kr and the 10 mills. kr to the supplier development programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1488	First of all, it's not like this is 10 million. NOK 15 million. This is the policy of the entire government, which I also explained in my reply. Secondly, there is no reason to believe that this research is wrong. Thirdly, I fully agree with the analysis of the representative. I really think that we're facing a problem that's a little bit about what you say in English: 'Culture eats structure for breakfast'. I very much agree with the representative from MDG that one of the problems here is that if you have purchasing environments that sit and manage almost a technical task based on some criteria, among other things. getting good value for taxpayers’ money, which is important, and does not raise it to a political or strategic level, and that is precisely the kind of low-innovative, often low-green acquisition. To do something about it, I don't think we can fine-tune ourselves. That is precisely why the whole approach of the government is competence, knowledge and statistics, but also programmes to change behaviour and culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1495	Before I entered Stortinget, I was a regional politician and was allowed to join the process of getting the first battery-powered ferry when we were in position. At the same time, I tried to get the state politicians involved to get the first battery-powered passenger boat between Askøy and Bergen, but at that time it was the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left that controlled the County Municipality. Very much goes on uncertainty, culture and knowledge among those who sit and control in terms of innovation and tenders. The question is, because I feel that Storting is overly mature to get that case: When do we get the message?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1500	As soon as we can make a good message. That's always the answer. It will of course be notified in advance in Stortinget, as you do, but I can't say anything more about it now. I think, as I say, it's very reasonable to have the opportunity to get loop messages from the government both through issues that are for treatment, and of course through questions. All of this will be taken into account in a broader context in the credit transfer notification of public acquisitions. If the Storting decides something the government is already doing, which is what the majority of people really say you should, it's a little bit like butter in a bottle. I'm busy with this. This is the government's policy, an overall government is behind it. All the games at Stortinget are concerned with the problem. We're doing well, but in no way done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1507	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1514	From several representatives in this debate – from both the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – it was said that this could give more bureaucracy, but when we see what the researchers have done when they have looked at public procurement processes, there are, as I said, two remaining barriers. One is the competence that we've talked enough about, the other is the management focus. That is why I would like to highlight in particular the original proposal No. 2 in the proposal for a representative: ‘The government is asked to report annually on the share of green public acquisitions’. What is needed to solve this is a strategic focus on green acquisitions, and that it is introduced in all public enterprises, not just in diffi. Research shows that there are the leadership groups in these businesses that need to be made aware of the share of their acquisitions. There are many good buyers around that sometimes take good environmental and climate considerations, but often it is ignored by the remaining organisation. By then forcing management to become aware and report to its owners, a strategic effort is being made, not a bureaucratic effort. So both researchers and the Green Party stress that it is also important for Stortinget to get annual feedback on the extent to which the regulation we have adopted on minimum 30 pst requirements. environmental weighting in all public tenders, where applicable, is complied with. We don't know that today. It is impossible to read about this on the Digit website about key figures and statistics, the proportion of purchases that are actually green. What is therefore needed is an enhanced strategic management focus on green acquisitions. This can be achieved in all public enterprises, including: through reporting requirements in already established reporting processes. This can be done without increasing red tape. On the contrary, it will lead to more strategic purchases in the long term, as green purchases are raised and integrated into the business page and business planning. With that, I encourage everyone to vote in favour of the proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1523	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1539	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1548	Thank you to the Committee for a good job! A broad majority of the Economic and Social Committee supports the proposed change in the nature of the research fund of the fisheries and aquaculture industry to the ministry from the administrative body to the public limited liability company. We believe that a public limited liability company is a clean form of organisation that provides good ownership management and company management as well as clear lines of responsibility in the business. The Industry Committee clarifies that only the form of association is changed, not the purpose and activity of the Research Fund. The Research Fund was established in 2001 to strengthen research and contribute to increased value creation, environmental adaptation and innovation in the fisheries and aquaculture industries. The industry itself is financing the research fund, with a R & D fee set by the department at 0,3 pst. of the export value of fish and fishery products. The proposal has been widely consulted. The parties have demonstrated the need to ensure broad competence from the industry of the Governing Board and the continuation of the arrangements for the parties themselves to propose candidates to the Governing Board. The Economic and Social Committee considers it important that the levy and use of the funds have good legitimacy in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, and therefore the composition of the Management Board is central in this respect. We therefore believe that the present regime for the appointment and composition of the board should be continued. The Committee points out that dividends should not be paid by the company and that they must also be included in the statutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1567	The FHF is a fund that has grown as revenue from fisheries and maritime nutrition has increased. It's a whole different size of that fund than it was just a few years ago, and it's a fund that means a lot to the development of fisheries and seafood in Norway. The reorganization we are doing today is a result of a process in the ministry and also in the National Audit Office, because the form of association that one has now had has been unclear. The National Audit Office pointed this out and asked questions about the type of association FHF had with the Department, and had several critical comments on it. The Ministry has, I believe, made a very correct assessment by linking this to the form of a corporation. It will create much cleaner conditions that way, i.e. between the department and the FHF. There are also other critical comments from several sources on the operation of the FHF. It has, among other things, criticism of the openness associated with the award of research. As we know, research is not part of the procurement law that we have in Norway today. It's outside it, so the demands of ordinary public procurement, regular supply, do not apply to research, unless institutions and actors have explicitly specified it in their rules. In the case of the FHF, this has been a reason why many have criticised the FHF for the way they have allocated funds. A review The morning paper did, where they got access to internal documents from the FHF, showed that it could look as if researchers were handpicking, that one tried to keep hidden negative results, and that a very large proportion of the funds that were distributed were distributed without a prior offer and without a purchase protocol that allowed one to go through and see if it had been done correctly, such as one has in another research. This means, as the Minister for Fisheries also pointed out in his reply to the Storting on questions from the Labour Party representative Terje Aasland, that there was room for improvement in the FHF, and that one was in the process of correcting parts of it. So the way I think about it, it's changing the form of the AS part of it. The next step I think is decisive to have legitimacy for what the FHF does, that a sure openness in the allocation of research. I will then refer to the Joint Arenas of the Research Institutes, which, in the context of their critical comments on FHF procurement practices, have asked the Department to assess whether the FHF will be placed under the Research Council, in order to be associated with their openness practices. I note that the Minister for Fisheries states that the main rule is that research funds from the FHF should be published and that competition should be suspended. It's positive. But FHF's purchasing practices can't be said to be right. It has created an unyielding and opaque system that allows the results and research funded by the FHF to come under critical light and weakens the legitimacy of this important research. That is the background to the loose proposal that we have put forward today, and the proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose measures to strengthen the transparency of the management of the JRC’s research funds, for example to entrust the administration of the Fund to the Research Council.’ I'm open to change the wording if it wants to. Among other things, I have received an input to change the wording of: ‘The government is asked to consider measures to strengthen the transparency of the management of FHF’s research funds.’ My sincere desire is that the Stortinget take over, and not that the least department takes over, to ensure that the FHF does not get the sharp criticism they have received from very different communities in the research community in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1590	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1595	Just to make a brief comment on SV's loose proposal: this is a problem that the committee in the configuration also has to deal with, and I think that with the changes proposed by the representative, this is a good proposal and an order that can be safely asked by the government to evaluate. Otherwise, the matter itself is tidy and straightforward and does not need any further comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1602	The research fund of the fisheries and aquaculture industry was set up in 2001 in order to manage the means of charging which, of course, are collected on the basis of the law on the levy for research and development in the fisheries and aquaculture industry. Knowledge we all agree is central to the development of the fisheries and aquaculture industry, perhaps now more than ever. The background to the establishment of the FHF was a desire to increase industry’s research exposure and strengthen the FOU based on industry’s needs and interests. The purpose of the fiscal means is simply to facilitate increased value creation and environmental adaptation, conversion and innovation in the fisheries and aquaculture industry. FHF allocates this year in excess of 260 million. funds for research activities to help solve challenges in the fisheries and aquaculture industries, which are considered to be essential for further development at all times. On the proposal: the proposal proposes a transformation of the FHF into a state full-time limited liability company. Only the form of association with the State, not the purpose or scope of the scheme, is proposed to be amended. The FHF has been considered to be an administrative body under the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries but differs in several areas from the usual management model. This has created some ambiguities. For this reason, the Department has reviewed the FHF’s form of association. In the light of this review, we are now proposing in the legislative proposal to change the form of association with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries of a limited liability company. I have some comments on the Committee's attitude. First of all, I am very pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal to transform into a State limited liability company, where all the shares are owned by the State. State limited liability company is a known form of organisation, which provides clarity of liability, governance and clarity in which framework regulates the business. The fisheries and aquaculture industry finances the FHF. Therefore, it is very important that the FHF has a good anchoring in the industry. The public limited liability company model facilitates the maintenance of a close link to the industry and the continued influence of the industry on the FHF’s strategic assessments and priorities. The involvement of the industry will be ensured through the competence of the board and the continuation of a work form designed to ensure that the results are perceived as relevant and useful and are used in the industry. I note that the Committee is also concerned about this and stress that it is important that fees and the use of funds have good legitimacy in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. A little about the governance process: The Committee points out that the composition of the Management Board is central to the legitimacy of the industry and believes that enterprises and organisations in the industry must ‘propose candidates for the Management Board and through dialogue with the Ministry to ensure appropriate competence, capacity and diversity’. I fully agree with that, and such a dialogue will of course be based on the design of the governance documents of the new share company. The Committee further points out that the practice of the three organisations Landsorganisationen in Norway, Norges Fiskarlag and Sjømat Norway proposing government representatives needs to be continued. It would be perfectly natural to obtain proposals for board members from the relevant organisations in the fisheries and aquaculture industry, including in the continuation. Without this, there'll be little legitimacy. As regards the final composition of the Board of Directors, the principles for the establishment of governors of state limited liability companies laid down in the notification of ownership must, of course, be taken into account. The ownership message states that there shall always be relevant competence to decide on board of directors. Competence, capacity and diversity will be the key factors given to the composition of the Governing Board.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1621	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1626	I will come with a little surprise and give praise to the council for cleaning up something that has been unclear for a long time. What I think is very positive about the FHF is that it's not part of the "normal" research assignment, that it has a connection to the industry, and that it's not just part of the large allocation of the other research funds that we have in this country. There's a longer discussion in itself. What I think is negative about FHF is that they have a poor procurement policy, which is too small to be transparent, which is difficult to ignore, and which makes it questionable whether the revenue from this fee is being used correctly. That's why we have a proposal to evaluate these things and get suggestions on it. What is the Minister's response to that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1635	I registered the debate about this and also the National Audit Office's points, but I would like to make it clear that all the FHF's projects are being reported online. It's actually the real rationality behind the FHF model that the research being funded should be open and accessible to everyone. Everyone understands that it is very important that the results of the research funded here are open and can therefore also be verified in all possible ways. It is necessary to have transparent, good and tidy procedures for the allocation of funds. The call for competition shall be the general rule for the allocation of funds, both in the current company and in the future limited liability company. We have had meetings, no later than 2017, we are about to clean up, we have given packings. So I hope and believe that all the problems that have been are solved in the new company.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1643	That's where the Council of State got a little bit of time to explain. I could imagine going to the right about that, because that's exactly what I'm talking about. The FFA has pointed out that they have been critical to the entire system of procurement. The one thing is openness around all the projects, but it's this about having purchasing logs, etc., things that this representative doesn't know, but that's a certain requirement in research, so that one knows that the allocation of funds has actually been made really transparent, and that decisions about allocations have been transparent. Has it been part of the dialogue that the minister has had, that one will demand it from the new limited liability company?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1648	The President will point out to the representative Knag Fylkesnes that the Council of State was given more time than the regulatory one to explain it. But state council, please!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1653	Thank you very much. Yes, I registered that I got 15 more seconds, that's quite right from the president – but it was important 15 seconds! But the answer is yes, it's clearly signaled that this should be cleaned up, and here you don't accept any slingshots in the future. But it is also linked to the discussion of transparency, tendering principles, competitions and that kind of thing. It's been single, but it's gone, and it's signed out. It is important when all projects are open online. The administrative transparency of research funding is linked to how a person uses the principles of tendering and competition. Standard conditions and guidelines are clearly on the company’s websites today and will, of course, do so in the future. Quality assurance and onlineisation of final reports. So everyone has access to this, and that is – I think both the representative Knag Fylkesnes and I agree – an advantage for all of us. You cannot then say in retrospect that you have not had an insight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1660	Then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1665	I will then, after the round we have now had, adjust the proposal according to what had been proposed, so that ‘proposal for action’ is replaced by ‘estimate measures’, quite in line with what is indicated by the Council of State in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1670	Then the word «proposal» will be replaced by «appraisals». Then the representative Knag County has the warning.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1675	The representative Knag County addresses two issues. One goes on openness, and it was really well lit in the exchange of lines that was. We in the Workers' Party see that in Norway we really have an imbalance in business relations with academia – unlike in Sweden, which is perhaps better in that dialogue. Some of the objectives of this research fund are precisely to strengthen the issues of business, that they are researched and that they are the ones that are being ordered by the tasks of achieving a better balance. We may be able to support ‘assess’, but I just want to signal from this pulpit that both the department and the board must be careful as to whether it is a good idea to be too close to the academy. But we have that confidence in the board that they can assess it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1682	To follow up the post from the representative – I did not get it in the main post, nor in the line screw: In order to create legitimacy and to make this kind of a contribution to the industry's research fund, it is important to have a distinction here. But it's not that the FHF doesn't cooperate with the academy. You do that in a lot of ways. The organisation model and the work form provide just the right solution. The industry directs the priority of the areas of activity and of individual projects through, inter alia: the board of directors, i.e. the trade representatives; the sectoral group, composed of representatives from the various sectors of the industry; large reference groups for each project, industry representatives, involving more than 500 persons. The results of the individual projects are communicated back to the industry through, for example: the reference groups and trade unions, where they are just participating in the same arena. In fact, there are between 1500 and 2000 people in a year attending these conferences. There are open presentations of the results of individual projects on the websites and they are actively disseminated in the trade press. Therefore, I believe that the last thing that was said is that the Business Committee has given so much attention to ensuring that the industry is influenced by its strategies and priorities. That is why I also believe that it is actually going to be more difficult to maintain a strong industrial link through the general instruments of the Research Council, or a link to it. That is why I think it may weaken the legitimacy of the system. But to evaluate this, I don't see any challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1703	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1708	It looks like we can get some here. What we are proposing is: ‘The government is asked to consider measures to strengthen the transparency of the management of FHF’s research funds.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1716	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, then referred to the amended proposal. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1736	The working party and the government have a common ambition to increase the value creation of the marine food industry. It is also widely agreed that the industry should provide more profitable jobs along the coast and increase domestic value creation. A key to increased value creation is more processing in Norway. Seafood Norway has recently produced a vision document – Seafood 2030, showing among others: to an estimated 20 000 jobs in the EU today based on the processing of Norwegian fish. Increased processing in Norway will be good for employment and provide good ring-effects. In addition, increased processing will improve the exploitation of fish resources and reduce transport needs in the markets. Norway needs 300,000 new jobs by 2030, and increased investment in maritime food can create many new jobs. The Director of Seafood Norway states that towards the spring of 2019 they want to find solutions that allow fishermen and industry to create more of the rich resources available to them in cooperation. ‘We cannot move towards a future in which the Norwegian maritime fleet only exports unprocessed fish,’ he says. The working party shares this view. We are concerned that both wild fish and farmed fish should provide more profitable jobs on land. When two years ago the Stortinge dealt with the big business report on a competitive seafood industry, a joint committee decided that it must be: ‘a policy objective to facilitate sustainable and socially optimal use of marine resources and in a way that provides the highest possible value-added and profitability’. Furthermore, it has «Norwegian seafood industry is facing strong competition for the raw material from other countries, often countries with significantly lower wages than we have, and will have, in Norway». The survey considered that we need to respond to this challenge through continuous product and market development, high quality and automation in industry. Social dumping both in the fleet and on land must be combated. Innovation and technology development have increasingly provided new solutions for industry, including in the field of processing. Several deliver top quality products, including to the most demanding markets in the world. We have seen that slaughter boats take over wellboats in some places – the fish are slaughtered at the meridian before being transported to land, which can contribute to lower mortality and thus better fish health, reduced infection and a more efficient logistics. Several Norwegian shipping companies have contracted such special ships and now also come slaughter boats that take the fish directly out to the European market. The Sekkingstad family and the Haugland Group slaughter boat are now being built in Spain for the shipping company Hav Line AS, and the ship is to fetch fish from Norwegian breeding pains, slaughter it on board and transport the fish directly to Hirtshals in Denmark for further processing and sales. The combination of slaughter and cargo provides more efficient production and faster access to markets, but it also leads to the export of jobs. Slaughterboats to the continent can have their advantages, like getting more transport on the keel, so that maritime transport replaces trailers. As a result, the environmental impact of salmon transport is reduced. It can provide faster access to the market and be good for fish health. However, such slaughter boats may also cause disadvantages such as job losses in processing, negative ring-effects to other industries, especially along the coast, and less national value creation. It can also provide uncertainty about nationality — both in terms of ownership and employees on ships — and it is asked whether municipalities will continue to facilitate areas if they do not have more local jobs. According to Dagens Näringsliv, during a visit to Hirtshals, the Minister for Fisheries replied when he was confronted with the loss of Norwegian jobs: ‘Of course, I would prefer to see these jobs come in Norway. [[...]] The Labour Party believes that the Minister should have greater ambitions than this. The plan is that a significant volume should be delivered to Denmark. The terminal under construction in Hirtshals shall be sized in such a way that it can increase its capacity in line with the fact that several slaughter boats come with fish. The Labour Party fears that a number of coastal jobs will be moved abroad, and that new jobs will be created and value creation will take place abroad along our coast. Norwegian farmed salmon is already an important contributor to jobs abroad. We want the salmon produced to provide more jobs in Norwegian municipalities. The battleship now being completed for the Sea Line Group is owned by the Fifty-fifth of the Sekkingstad family and the Haugland Group in Bergen. The slaughter ship shall replace traditional wellboats as well as today's land-based slaughterhouse. They shall have a crew of about 40 persons, 30 of whom shall be slaughtered. The ship is given a capacity of 1000 tonnes of eviscerated fish per trip, which according to Chief Haugland of the Sea Line will be the world's largest capacity. «If he had been slaughtered for full-time machinery 24 hours a day, the boat could be taken from all the slaughter of fish in Norway south of City», said Haugland to the Nettavisen Tunnelsyn on 15 August last year, where it also appears that the ship was supported by Enova. It is positive that the Sea Line has given signals that the crew will be Norwegian, but how are we going to ensure it for the future? The Labour Party is concerned that the consequences can be more than just ‘drip’ to Denmark, as the Minister for Fisheries has previously stated. We must not get into the situation that these boats operate with foreign crews, deliver directly on the continent and in the long term possibly have foreign ownership. One to two slaughter boats are planned. That's why it's important that we see the consequences of which system we now get in place and evaluate it before granting new permits, so that we can ensure greater value creation and Norwegian jobs. So finally, will the Council of State agree that we need to look at the consequences before opening up more of these vessels, and what will he do in that context?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1783	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Grung's interpellation. I fully agree with the interpellant that we all have a responsibility to facilitate the creation of values based on fishing and farming resources along the Norwegian coast. They hear about exports of up to 50,000–60,000 jobs, but we know, I think, all of the reason. There is a certain level of costs in Norway that are not competitive, even though we are best placed to produce that kind of product in our processing. In the Jelaua platform, the government has therefore determined that, together with the entire Stortinget, we will seek to create greater values of each kilogram of fish and other marine resources in Norway. This implies the need to facilitate the processing industry in Norway. And there are a lot of grips that can be taken. In this context, trade policies and efforts to reduce customs burdens include: processed seafood products, in particular in the EU – this may be one of the reasons why several actors are seeking to enter the EU for processing. The second key is that, although we are good today, we still need to continue our research and technology development, build infrastructure, provide skills measures. However, the government considers that it is not reasonable to impose a certain form of processing where it is not profitable, among other things. – no one serves where it is not profitable or competitive. Then we reduce value creation rather than increase it, and there will be less employment and less processing. There is currently a significant development in the Norwegian farming industry. Large – huge – investments in new equipment and new solutions are being made to improve operational efficiency and efficiency. There has been an enormous interest in the development permits that were announced by the government. Then it is natural that the industry looks at the slaughter process and whether they can take some steps that can increase efficiency and profitability also on the slaughter side. The emergence of slaughter boats is part of this. The fact that the industry is developing and looking at opportunities to create greater values is something we should applaud and at least not initially criticise. I would like to point out that slaughter boats themselves are nothing new. What is new is that some actors are looking at the possibility that the slaughter boats can deliver directly to abroad. For the time being, there is no such ship in operation, and it remains to be seen, I think, whether the actors get this done. In any case, what experience they might have gained from this is far too early to say about its scale. In any case, I am sure that there will be a significant land-based industry in Norway based on the processing of salmon and other seafood in the future. We want to see a variety of different business models. Some will find it profitable to establish transport directly to the continent, while many — most — will continue to use and slaughterhouses on land in Norway, as we see today. But it depends a little on us – what kind of a boom and government is contributing to the industry. There is no doubt that in today's situation, where we jointly impose significant environmental requirements on industry – the traffic light system is not easy to relate to – and significant investment requirements in terms of renewing technology to meet the major challenges that are coming, we have indirectly instructed the industry to invest $10 billion in the future. This must also be taken into account when looking at the full cost picture of the industry. It was also proposed to pay a production levy, i.e. additional costs to the industry. We've just had the first round of sales of increased production, growth. 120 000 kroner per tonne the industry had to pay, over 90 million. kr for an authorisation. Clearly, there are investments that are heavy for industry, so we must not be surprised when the industry on the other hand is looking for new, efficient solutions for slaughter and the whole chain up through. However, it is quite right that the interpellant points out that the emergence of slaughter boats could lead to a somewhat reduced labour demand in some slaughterhouses on land. However, new jobs are also created on board boats and in connection with establishments on land. There is no automaticity in the fact that jobs will be filled by foreign workers. The movement of transport from land to sea will also, I believe, be in line with the intentions of the Storting and the Government to contribute to the reduction of climate emissions and the reduction of congestion on Norwegian roads. Actors believe that slaughter boats could reduce the biological risk involved in both landfilling and government, increase the slaughter yield, i.e. there is more of the fish left, and reduce the costs for breeders, so that they can further develop to meet biological, environmental and other challenges. Reduced transport time and the number of stages in the value chain will also improve quality. Stakeholders are probably looking at the possibilities offered by the slaughter boats because they consider it to be profitable on the basis of several criteria that together will increase value creation. 2018 is the first year we allocate growth in the farming industry with the traffic lighting system. 6 pst. growth in areas assessed for good status, as far as 2 pst. – as I say – at NOK 120 000 per tonne. It's already brought in revenues of 950 million. to the Maritime Fund. The remaining percentages we aim to allocate to the spring party or early summer. The hearing for this will be held on 18 April. It is important in the context that municipalities make available sea areas, that they get something left to facilitate this. The Government has therefore committed itself to the distribution of the Marine Fund to which the Storting has joined. If you're going to follow up on the result you've already received, this is going to generate revenues of 3 billion. kr in the Aquaculture Fund, for a normal farming municipality, perhaps between 8 and 11 million. kr. There is no doubt that the municipalities that facilitate the farming industry will have much left. Therefore, I do not share the interpellant's concern that the emergence of slaughter boats will lead to less willingness to make land available. Nor should we forget that most farming municipalities do not have a slaughterhouse. In fact, over the years, there have been fewer but larger slaughterhouses. With the Marine Farm Fund, we ensure that municipalities that have already cleared land for farming within their areas get their share of cake. The interpellant asks whether we should wait to allocate growth in the breeding industry until we have evaluated the importance of slaughter boats for value added and jobs. I think that's a little wise. Connecting this allocation of growth with the emergence of slaughter boats will be very, very unfortunate for foreseeable growth. Premises for growth in the aquaculture industry have been a thorough debate in the farm communication leading to the traffic light system. The size has accumulated that it is the environmental impact measured in salmon-puzzle that is to be responsible for the growth, while other considerations are not to be taken into account. As I've been about, I see no reason for us to be critical of the emergence of slaughter boats. Rather, such boats can be a good contribution to the farming industry. If we are to be safe, and if we are to have a significant industry in Norway in the future based on the processing of salmon and other seafood, the government wants to facilitate more profitable processing in Norway. But it is not fruitful to try to achieve this by preventing development in the industry or imposing new forms of universal service, as we have experienced from critical industries. I mean – if we look at the whole framework – that in order to create more processing, employment and growth in Norway, there are taxes, impositions, prohibitions, bureaucracy and all this that have to be taken into account. We need to be aware today that the farming industry is already getting a high level of costs. Great investment comes, and we know, with experience from the oil and petroleum industries, how it can go.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1806	I would like to thank the Council of State. I have a comment, like that immediately. At least the processing companies that I've visited, and that's part of it, indicate that it's not the wage costs that are challenging, because there's been such a positive development in automation and innovation. Wages and salaries represent such a small part of production, so it is not a proper perception of the processing industry. Access to raw materials is a challenge, but we can do that later. The working party is concerned about the development. We've seen how fast this industry is developing. If we are to achieve the objectives of increased value creation and employment in Norway, the Labour Party believes it is wise that we are leading were and are looking through the framework of the development we want to get ahead. We actually have to have a little bit of ambition on our behalf to achieve the goals we've set ourselves. We also have a challenge in how to supervise on board these slaughter boats. Are there export-related challenges when embarking the ships? In the past, at least to the main players, the Workers' Party has thought it wise that we attached demands for increased processing to concessions. I hear the minister doesn't want that. The question to the Council of State, which gets the floor after me, is: What is the strategy, and when do we get concrete measures to ensure full-year work in the field of processing? There is at least one measure. And aren't there any areas where the minister sees that we should be leading were in terms of development? After the interpellation was announced, I have received input from quite a number of actors along the coast. Governments must not forget that this is actually the most important industry along our coast — both wild fish and farming — not least in order to create sustainable and profitable jobs in processing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1815	I am reasonably sure that I did not mention the compensation of employees in my post, but I said the total costs, and I pointed to the investment costs and demands that we impose on the industry in order for it to grow. This is why industry needs to take different steps, invest in different ways, organise different ways to grow, and it costs money. Just look at the many companies that today have a diet that is close to 40 kroner. You could say that there is no problem as long as we have good salmon prices, but good salmon prices can quickly disappear. We now have good salmon prices simply because the temperature in the sea is the way it is, and that's how it can affect the price. We have good salmon prices because the market other places have collapsed. It could change. I don't think anyone in the industry – and no politician should go around thinking and thinking – that we want salmon prices of 60 kroner and 70 kroner in the future. That's why I say that the overall cost picture of the industry now means that as politicians, we need to have a great deal of understanding that the industry – small, medium-sized or large – is looking for new ways to make itself more efficient and create better quality, and then transport is part of the picture. I have myself put a considerable pressure on transport costs when moving live fish, closing wellboats, etc. These are the costs that the industry will have to bear if it is to grow in the future, in order to prevent, inter alia: disease and escape. There will be new costs for the industry, and that's what I talked about when I talked about the total cost picture, not that there's something wrong with the salaries in Norway. I think you're getting a little blinded by the fact that things are going so well now, but we're not going back so many years until there was another picture. We must not be blinded by all the values created either. I don't think we should be so fascinated that we're kind of blinded by all the jobs and the growth that we're seeing now. I think we have to try to look a little bit ahead. Therefore, I believe that the traffic light system is actually what will gradually facilitate significant, predictable growth and sustainable growth in the coming years, which will provide the necessary revenue for growth and employment along the coast. But there's an interesting problem that lies in what the interpellant takes up, and I also hear that the interpellant thinks to a large extent wider than what goes on just this with slaughter boats. I'm not so critical or worried today, because it's probably a couple-three boats it's talking about. It remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1830	First, I would like to thank Ruth Grung for raising this issue to debate. The working party is positive for aquaculture. We are a party that has as its guide that we should create to share. This means that Norwegian natural resources can be used to create jobs, growth and development. The working party is concerned that Norwegian aquaculture should create values in Norway. Growing fish in the sea is such an opportunity, and we see that farming now forms a greater part of the value creation in the fishing industry than wild caught fish. The farming industry and the other fishing industry live side by side and part of the area of the sea. It is not as unproblematic, but with good municipal and local processes it is possible to mitigate land-related conflicts and joint use of marine areas. We know that there are different views about farming and aquaculture, and that many are both skeptical and opposed to farms in sea cages. The demand for closed-end facilities to prevent leaches and escape is often raised in the public debate. The government's ambition is to significantly increase the farming industry. This means that the municipalities, which are responsible for land-use planning, must allocate even more land to the sea at sea. This, in turn, means that municipalities and residents in the municipalities concerned must have a positive attitude towards aquaculture. Without increased access to land, no increase in production. Most coastal communities that have aquaculture within their borders are in favour of this industry. It provides good, safe and attractive jobs locally. It means a lot to most municipalities. If the aquaculture industry is in such a situation that they outsource jobs out of the country to increase their own profits, I'm afraid they're doing themselves a bear service. The industry is going well today, and there are not many threatening clouds to see for the farming industry. Perhaps the most important thing this industry can work on in the future is its own reputation and the people's attitude towards it. Without popularization, access to new land could be difficult. This is a serious challenge for the aquaculture industry. For us as a party, who wants the industry well, it is important to remember that reputation is closely linked to growth and development. Making it possible to export jobs out of the country will not lead to improved reputation for the farming industry. The Minister for Fisheries should take the signals from the societal debate seriously and contribute to the effective achievement of the ambitions of the authorities in this area by the aquaculture industry. Norway, as a sea mation, should have an inescapable ambition that our natural resources should provide activity and jobs in Norway and that the municipalities that provide land for these purposes should be able to benefit from local jobs. Norwegian farmed salmon already provides many jobs abroad. If this increases further, with corresponding job losses in Norway, the local goodwill may decrease, with the possible consequences. All industries are concerned about and dependent on reputation, but some industries are more vulnerable to change than others. Aquaculture is such an industry. It already labors with escape, salmonnus, the use of chemicals and farmed waste. My impression is that industry organisations see this challenge, but changes in attitudes in the population are linked to what each company does and contributes to by local value creation. This is important, not just for the reputation of the industry, but for the future of the farming industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1849	When the slaughter figures for Norwegian salmon slaughtered in Norwegian slaughterhouses in Norway are to be summarised for 2018, I am sure this year will come out with a new record in both volume and crown. Of course, the slaughter process of each salmon needs to pass through, generating employment. Lovund, the amazing island of Helgeland, which I visited last weekend, is a good example in that way. Without the salmon, which they also slaughter, they could not have celebrated passing 500 inhabitants. And it's actually like if it hadn't been for the salmon, there's no one who could have celebrated anything, because there probably wouldn't have lived people there. I can kind of understand the fear of the interpellant taking up the interpellant. Of course, thinking that foreign slaughter boats can swing into the coast and take the salmon with them could challenge the employment associated with some of the 1.3 million tonnes of salmon slaughtered along the coast of Norwegian slaughterhouses. In its interpellant, the interpellant writes that ‘this could put pressure on investments in workplaces related to slaughterhouses and indigenous processing’. Yeah, that's possible, that's possible. My fear, however, is not slaughter boats, as long as we keep mainland Norway competitive. My great fear, on the other hand, is SV's representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and his policy. At the latest this week, from this pulpit, a proposal was made to introduce a new fee for this industry – production fee – and according to an interview with VG, one can perceive it there that the representative Knag Fylkesnes also spoke on behalf of the Workers' Party. When you call for a new 500 million tax. In addition to the Swedish Maritime Fund and the ordinary farm tax system, there is hardly any better incentive for business operators to look for forms of operation that they can survive in the future — or at worst elsewhere than in Norway. When the government has as its objective the use of 1000 billion. on transport and infrastructure in the years to come, it is also about facilitating competitiveness for business and local communities. This is particularly important for the aquaculture industry, which is definitely a district industry, because no one has it as busy as a dead salmon. Access to efficient infrastructure is therefore important and it is also a crucial factor. With 15 bn. kr in the general increase in taxes, for which the Workers' Party was called on in the last election campaign, 500 million. kr in new production fee, as SV signalled, in addition to nearly 1 billion. kr, which has so far been paid to the Swedish Maritime Fund from the industry – and before all this comes the ordinary farm tax, which of course also has this industry – is all cause for concern about domestic processing and slaughterhouse operations. But in this picture is not my concern slaughter ship, but slaughter of an entire industry. Ensuring value creation and Norwegian jobs does not take place through prohibitions and tax impositions; it takes place through good, competitive framework conditions. If we make the coast attractive and competitive, we will in the future see that there will be significantly more salmon slaughtered than today in Norwegian salmon slaughterhouses in Norway along the whole coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1866	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important question, which – as we note from the debate – intervenes in many aspects of the farming industry. The starting point for SV is that this is an industry built on the community's resources. What we did with other Community resources, for example: When the offshore industry or the hydroelectric power was expanded, we also established good systems of land-based interest-rate taxation for the use of these resources. For my part, I meant that it was entirely reasonable not to impose such charges at the beginning of this business development, simply to provide a particularly good framework to see what kind of industry this could be. Now when we see that there are up to several tens of billions of dollars per year, large and even larger surpluses every year, we see the contours of an industry that has come out of the birth stage and now is among the most important and strongest industries in Norway, with the very largest and best framework conditions. But the starting point is that this is still built on the community's resources, and we haven't established a code that will bring something back directly to the community through production and function. The definition of rent taxation is simply this: production — that is, society is going to get a part back from production. I think this is a broad political consensus about, and that's when the first concession laws were passed early in the 1900s. Then there were people from the Left and beyond on the left side who supported it. Not surprisingly, the right side was going against it. They were also against the ground interest rate tax that one imposed on offshore. You can see who's right today - I don't think anyone from the right side of this talking room will be in charge of stopping a basic interest tax on offshore, and not from force. But one of them is trying again with breeding. For SV, the starting point for Storting here is very simple. The task of the size is to provide the best possible value for the community. That means you're going to have a profitable enterprise, unless there's no business. This means that one has to make sure that income benefits society – that is, that not all income benefits the company, but that the community gets something back for the use of the community's land. This means that there must be jobs in the community, in society in general, and it must mean that Norway has a significant ownership of these industries, to ensure that some of these incomes also come to it. In this way, Nova Sea in Lovund is entirely exemplary. The company satisfies all of the points I've framed here. She is locally owned from the early 1970s and has been involved in the whole development, an amazingly interesting company, an innovative leader, workplaces in the region – everything is fulfilled in Lovund. But it's not obvious that this is how evolution needs to be. So the size must always make sure that the community gets the most value for the use of the sea in total. Our task is not to ensure that single actors get the most income possible. We're going to make it possible for it to be profitable to operate, but our task is not to help them get the most income that goes beyond the community's legitimate right to sit back with some of the revenues. In this way, the discussion of ships for slaughter is interesting, because it is quite legitimate for the actors to ensure that their revenues are increased. That's how they operate, that's how we want business to operate. But the role of the Storting must always be to balance the framework conditions for business in such a way that it does not destroy the main purpose of the Storing's activities at sea: Community resources, i.e. that the community should also sit back with values, that it should contribute to industrial development on land, etc. We must constantly ensure that there are values left in Norway, in local communities, in the form of incomes, jobs, ownership and not least the environment. And when it's about the ground interest rate tax, I can only say that what I mean is the right way to tax this industry -- through production and less through concession. Today, concessions cost up to 120 million. kr. I think we should move the heads over to the production page.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1883	Thank you for the debate. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that we be able to see the whole industry, that we succeed in increasing value creation and employment in Norway. The industry is new, it has grown unusually fast, and my experience is at least that it is related to legislation that is not always related. Then we have to be wise to be able to look at all aspects of this industry, including how we are going to set up the fees, how much resource interest we are going to charge. I just have to say that the Workers' Party is pretty skeptical when one comes up to 120 million. kr per concession. Is it a development we want in terms of diversity and in terms of ensuring innovation and development? The Working Party is committed to the socio-economic accountability of the proceeds level in order to develop the industry. Therefore, it is a little sad that one comes up with arguments such as that the Workers' Party contributes to the slaughter of an entire industry. What we want to record is just the change that we're now seeing with slaughter boats. I think it is wise to develop slaughter boats that slaughter at the mermaid's edge and take it directly into Norway. But when you get a system where you develop larger slaughter boats, where all the activity happens away from our coast and with direct landing on the continent, we think that we should be to the degrees leading were and cautious in terms of development, and follow it closely. Therefore, the Workers' Party will follow up. We believed that the interpellation was about the slaughter boats that are now under order – at least we are going to be close to this part. We will also continue to be close to the legislation, and not least on how we set up the fees, so that they become transparent and predictable for the municipalities in terms of remuneration, because whether that is the case we have also had a debate. So I think it might be wise – in conclusion – that we want each other well with regard to the intentions of what we are raising, that it is at the best of the industry, and not least that we are able to achieve our common goals of increasing value creation in Norway and more profitable jobs across the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1896	I am very pleased with what Mr Grung said in conclusion, that we should look at the whole together and create predictability. I just said that I believe the traffic light system – when it gets really settled – it's the tool that's going to grow. But we need to keep our eyes open for everything else that happens. When I hear the representative, Ingelill Olsen, I'm a little surprised, because when it comes to what's happening in the future, no one can say that it's going to be like that. Let's go offshore, as an example: I see what comes from forward-looking technology to move farming far to the sea. I see which technology comes – quite quickly – for closed installations. I see the speed of farming on land — up to 800–1,000 grams — that will reduce production time in the sea by one third. This is the same thing around the corner. We are the ones who have initiated it through development concessions, environmental requirements and all sorts of other demands on this industry – and it costs money. That's why I think it's going to be right to do what the representative also says: now we don't have to act quickly. Now we have to make a picture of what we're going to do with this industry, even though it's gold times now, because these gold times are going to change. I heard that the representative Knag Fylkesnes said something very reasonable. He said we have to have a balanced framework. That's absolutely right. Then we have to look at all the legislation and frameworks that are not about the economy as well, and connect it with everything else. No one disagrees that a share of this production will benefit society, but the question arises again and again. In 2015, a wide-ranging settlement was made in this room, where almost all the lots said no to the area/production fee and wanted to have the Maritime Fund instead. Then there will be two years, and then there will be a proposal in this Chamber on an export tax. Then another year goes by, and then a proposal for a land tax/production tax is promoted. These companies also pay corporate taxes. There are taxes on taxes and taxes on taxes. Now let's do what Mr. Grung said, and sit down and see what a predictable withdrawal of the share of production is going to be. Let us not read new taxes and taxes – from all directions – in the industry. This is about all of us taking a responsibility to make sure that we do not regulate ourselves against economic realities, because then it goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1907	The interaction debate was closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1919	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1928	During the debate, Kirsti Leirtrø has presented three proposals on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. First of all, there will be a vote on proposal No. 3, which reads: ‘ auto repair shops and their technical managers which are currently authorised to carry out periodic vehicle checks shall not lose their approval as a result of new legislation’. Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e1947	The proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to impose a charge for roadside vehicle checks’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests that no fee be imposed for the approval of workshops carrying out periodic roadside inspection’. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e2057	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e2067	The law decision will be passed until a second time in a future meeting of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e2092	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2-4, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, by Kristin Ørmen Johnsen on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to introduce self-defence courses for girls in secondary school or secondary school with a focus on borderlining. A model for this, including training of instructors and a parallel approach for boys on respect for borders, must be developed in cooperation with relevant professional environments.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e2124	The proposals No. 2-4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the prevention and follow-up of sexual harassment be included in the provisions of the Labour Environment Act on health, environment and safety and in regulations, and that work against sexual harassment be required to be a high priority in other HMS work, including training of protection agents.’ [[HMS]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop and launch a programme to prevent sexual harassment in schools, which includes action plans and guidelines for dealing with sexual harassment in all schools.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a public sample to be set up and a national scale study to monitor sexual harassment in the workplace, to investigate the factors affecting the risk of harassment and to propose measures to reduce this risk, and to identify sexual harassment outside the labour force.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e2153	There is so much talk about proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back to the matter in the context of the 2019 State Budget to introduce a low threshold offer for the enforcement of sexual harassment cases, so that equality and discrimination are given the power to provide upliftment and compensation in matters of equality and discrimination law, similar discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, gender and disability.’ The Christian People's Party has warned that they are no longer behind the proposal and will vote against it. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e2172	There is so much talk about proposal No. 6, from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back to the matter in the context of the State Budget 2020 to introduce a low threshold offer for the enforcement of sexual harassment cases, and to give Discrimination Officer the power to provide upliftment and compensation in such cases in the field of the Discrimination Act, equivalent discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, gender and disability.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already received subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e2226	Right, the Progress Party and the Left have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e2266	During the debate, Mr Pollestad has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for efforts to strengthen public purchasers’ skills to ensure real innovation, climate and environmental weight through public acquisitions.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to introduce a new risk-relief mechanism for the 2019 government budget to strengthen public procurement focusing on innovation and climate-friendly acquisitions.’ These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party are behind the recommendation. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e2303	During the debate, Mr Knag County has presented one proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal was amended during the debate and has the following wording: ‘The government is asked to consider measures to strengthen the transparency of the management of FHF’s research funds.’ The President has reason to believe that the proposal will then be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e2373	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e2383	The law decision will be passed until a second time in a future meeting of the Stortinge. In Case No. 7 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-12.ana.ud573e2490	This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
