ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e28	The representatives Bears Moxnes and Hege Haukeland Liadal, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Oslo: Mats Churchbirkeland For Eastfold County: Arve Sigmundstad The representative, Else-May Botten, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e54	On behalf of Espen Barth Eide, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Åsmund Aukrust and myself, I would like to propose CO 2 transport and storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e62	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e78	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e87	It costs to finance the community hospital, but it's probably invested money. During the previous ageing period, the government and the majority of the population were systematically under the promises they made to hospitals to finance them and their offers. This year, the first in this ageing period, the government is 1.5 billion. kr below what the Working Party believes is right for hospitals to deliver good offers, have skilled employees and purchase medical-technical equipment. Now we're starting to see the results of this around Norwegian hospitals. At Haukeland University Hospital in Bergen, it is up to 40 pst. six hours after birth of the pregnant women. The Kalnes Hospital in Eastfold – a new, modern hospital – already has many corridor Asians due to resource challenges. In Egersund, Rogaland, it is an advanced rehabilitation service for COPD patients. I visited the place a few days ago. There is now a threat of closure – not for better rehabilitation, but for attending and financing new hospitals in Stavanger. We also have examples in Norway of the fact that young people are now demanding specialities for drug and mental health treatment. The hospital Telemark, which I visited the other day, has a budget of a little over 3 billion. kr. Now they're going to cut 200 million. kr, and investment in medical-technical equipment, preparation of new radiation devices, etc. is affected. I would like to say that hospitals are used to conversion – they have skilled employees – and even with our budget line, there will be a need for that. But we are beginning to reach a limit that is alarming when we see the results and the offer to patients. They treat more, waiting times go down, and it's due to good work in hospitals, but we're beginning to reach a limit. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does she agree that it has now been cut to the bone, and that it is beginning to weaken the offer of good patient care and the quality of the community hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e102	Good hospital services in a country are incredibly important. This is why Norway also has good hospital services. That is why we have significantly increased the budgets of hospitals in the last five years. Over the past five years, we have increased budgets by more than eight years of red-green government. The activity level has risen. Waitress has gone down. And good quality is being raised, not least in the context of the implementation of the so-called package trajectories. At the same time, we're in a historic building of hospitals right now. It shall be financed, inter alia, through: surplus in hospital appropriations and treatment appropriations, and this will help us to get better, more efficient and good hospitals in the future. I believe that we have taken a boost to lift the treatment at the hospitals. I believe that the waiting times also show that it is possible to get better ways of operating the hospitals. I therefore think the crisis picture drawn by the representative Jonas Gahr Støre is not correct. Is there a shortage in the health system? Yes, it is. It's missing because the ambitions you want to achieve and implement are even bigger than what we've been able to find space for. There are many hospitals that could treat more and treat more sophisticatedly if they had received more equipment — also technically. So it can be done more, but we've made significant increases in recent years. Let me comment on the slightly populist part of Jonas Gahr Støre's contribution, namely that it is planned that women who are pregnant at the hospital in Bergen should leave after 6 hours. That's not right. It has been added that in a few years' time, when you have a new female clinic, up to 40 pst. be able to leave after 6 to 24 hours. Today it's actually 20 pst. of the birthers who do so, by an offer made outside the hospitals, with follow-up. Getting home quickly is actually a very positive and good action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e113	It is our job to see developments in hospitals and whether we are prepared for the tasks ahead of us. What I see when I travel around Norwegian hospitals now is a notable development in which hospitals are drained for resources and personnel, and as a result of the privatisation reform the government has implemented. You have put the credit card in the bar, to say it like this – go and eat! Private clinics pick up key personnel from public hospitals, and we see from several of the hospitals that hospital services need to be dismantled because they lose key personnel. I saw it last time at the Hospital Telemark, which loses staff to private clinics that pop up around the area and in the region. Then I want to ask the Prime Minister a question, because we have discussed the training of competent hospital personnel before. Does the Prime Minister have an overview of how many people have left the community hospital to start at these clinics, and what are the consequences of what is happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e120	I don't have an overview of how many people have left and started in private clinics, but I think it's interesting to hear. In the last period, the representative Jonas Gahr Støre thought that the so-called reform, where people are allowed to choose where they are treated, was not successful because too few chose this. Now it's obviously too many people who choose it. I believe that the rights of patients at the bottom are the most important – the ability to choose an alternative form of treatment. I have understood, even from the time Gahr Støre was Minister of Health, when the treatment was far less in Norwegian hospitals than what you are doing today, and the waiting times were longer, that you have never recognised the fact that in many of the heavy, major diseases, which are major public diseases, such as mental illness, such as the disease. Anorexia, such as drug problems, is important to choose the form of treatment and to be a participant as a patient in the choice. It has never been important for the Workers' Party. To the right, it's important. That is why it is an offer, and therefore it has been a priority where we have started freedom of choice reforms first.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e125	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e130	The important thing for the Workers' Party is to ensure that people get quality treatment, that those who need it get it quickly and well, and that we can follow it up well and be sure that it does. We have a prime minister who does not see the consequences of the hospital economy she has been responsible for, who has systematically been below what she herself has promised. She does not have an overview of what is happening to the personnel situation. Many Norwegian hospitals have critical crews. If they miss someone, the offers may fall. The Minister for Health does not have an overview of the number of young people in drug and mental health who now have to pay their own share. At the Hospital Telemark, the amount that goes out of the hospital economy and into private clinics has risen to 25 million. kr. What they find is that the lying time in the private clinics is long, far longer than it is in the public health service. Here we have an expression that when the taximeter goes, we don't have control of how the treatment, the quality, is. What worries me then is that there are fewer people who are being treated with this scheme, and that we do not have an overview of the quality. That's a question to the Prime Minister. She has no idea what the privatisation reform leads to, how it weakens the supply in public hospitals, and how fewer get help out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e139	I see a health care system that treats more patients, who have shorter waiting times, who because of the package schedules when the goal of the patient course is much better than before, which I think we have reason to be proud of, and which I think those who work there have reason to be proud of, because there is a lot of amazing work in Norwegian health care. Then I also see that the priorities we did early, giving freedom of choice to people with drug and mental health challenges, are an upgrade of having these challenges, which means that you can also get alternative offers. I believe that in the care area it is not so strange if there is a little longer treatment time, because it has often been complained that the treatment time is too short. That's why people can't stay in the system. What we are going to do is always to be concerned with quality control of what is given, whether it is given in the public sector, or whether it is given in the private sector. It has the same responsibility for health care, regardless of whether healthcare is provided publicly or privately.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e148	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e153	It's easy to talk good about Norwegian hospitals. I've done it both as a health minister, as a patient and as a politician. They deserve praise from those who work there. But I'm concerned about a prime minister who now doesn't see developments in the economy and the consequences it has for patient treatment, for those who work there, for those who have to run faster. We are now developing in several hospitals with a high number of bee jobs by people who work in hospitals and who also work out in the private offerings, which weakens the offers both places. And I'm going back to that here we have a government that has prioritised its economy, opens up huge tax cuts and takes money out of hospitals under the promises they gave themselves. Investments in medical and technical equipment, investments in radiation capacity and the quality of public hospitals are being affected, and there is a privatisation reform that we are now beginning to see the consequences. Resources go out of hospitals, people go out of hospitals, and the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health do not have an overview, have not consistently evaluated what it means for patients. There's going to be worse patient treatment, and I'm worried that it doesn't bother the prime minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e159	In all the years that this government has provided budgets to the Storting, the activity – i.e. the growth – has been either better than what it was under the red-green government, or at exactly the same level. This year it is at the same level as one delivered the very best year under the red-green government. At the same time, the Workers' Party draws a crisis picture of how the economy and development are. I see that these are challenges. These are areas where we're going to work on quality. One of the things we do systematically is to make sure that we make patients' health care. This means that we move the focus in the healthcare system to be more focused around the individual patient in the patient’s course. It provides better services, it provides better quality services, and contentment also makes people feel more satisfied with what they actually get. That, I believe, is major and important reforms that make us see that we are changing it. We're also changing the priority of health research, so we're now giving priority to some of the major women's diseases, some of the major people's diseases that have been less prioritised in the past. This helps to improve our health care system, improve the quality and offer more services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e166	Tuva Moflag – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e171	Having children takes place in Norway every day, but there is still some of the least daily experience as a human being. The average lying time in Norway has fallen from 3.2 to 2.7 lying days in recent years. The Medical Association warns that further curtailment in bedtime can lead to the risk of our good results in maternal and infant mortality. Prime Minister Erna Solberg encourages Norwegian women to have more children. My question to the Prime Minister is whether she is satisfied with that 40 pst. by the women in her hometown, Bergen, will be sent home six to eight hours after birth once in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e176	No newborn child or mother or father shall be forced home shortly after birth. The need and safety of the child’s parents will determine this, and there are few places in the world where it is better to give birth than in Norway. And there's no need to scare pregnant women unnecessarily. The time of discharge from the hospital after birth shall be adapted to the needs of both the woman and the newborn and a decision shall be taken in consultation with the woman concerned. Therefore, when mother and child are going home, there is a professional question and no politician should or should decide. No one should go home until the family is able to take care of the family at home. So at the hospital in Bergen, Haukeland University Hospital, it's 20 pst. by the women today who travel home after between 6 and 24 hours, because they want to do so themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e183	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e188	According to the Health Policy Barometer from TNS Gallup, which was presented last week, I think 58 pst. of the population that today we have a two-part health care system. The main driver of this is that we have a government that deliberately fails the public health system by its privatisation reforms. We know that the number of infirmarys is halved in 30 years. We know that Norwegian hospitals are on top when there is a high level of coverage, i.e. how full hospitals are, and the worst in the class when there is short lay time. We know that local hospitals have our threat. We know that new hospitals are being built too small before they open. The hospital in Eastfold was presented by the Minister of Health as a practical example. Last year there were 3,800 patients in the hall. Does the Prime Minister – as the population – mean that we have a two-part healthcare system? And will the Prime Minister stop the construction of bed places in the public hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e197	I don't think we have a two-part healthcare system in Norway. Under this government, we have provided greater freedom of choice through publicly funded schemes that contribute to the reduction of the room for the two-part healthcare system, where there is a whole private part paid by their own pocket, by those who want a different treatment. That people do that, there might be different reasons. But today, we are giving more choice to alternative ways of providing treatment, for example. in the field of mental health protection and in the field of drug care. We buy more private services. It is well possible to say that the provision of care at public level is fully accessible to all users who need it, following a need assessment. I understand that the opposition may feel that we've been running for a long time, but 30 years of reducing bed capacity, I think we're going to apply evenly to a philosophy where outpatient treatment has been built up dramatically, and where it's actually gotten better, and where new technologies have done it that way. It is also important to remember that the hospital in Østfold was planned and started under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e204	Nicholas Wilkinson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e209	The government's cut $2.7 billion. kr from the specialist health service with so-called efficiencies cut, i.e. flat cheese needs without any priority as to where it can be streamlined. The results are clear. Norway has been the best, but we are on the wrong track. Professor Sven Erik Gisvold says that the degradation of the hospitals puts patients' lives at risk. The time of birth is greatly reduced. The respondent in Eastfold has had to reject patients. There are constantly new tasks without enough money to cover the new tasks. The government gives with one hand, but takes a lot back with the other. What will the Prime Minister answer to all health workers in Norway who are now in contact with SV and ask how long should the health service be cut with flat, unprioritized cheese needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e216	During the reign of this government, the waiting time has been reduced by 17 days in total – 27 days in the case of alcohol and 8 days in the case of mental health protection for adults. There are 65,000 fewer in hospital queues. We have introduced freedom of choice with free treatment. We have predictability in terms of the packaging cycle for cancer. In fact, I feel that the opposition's description of the government's health policy falls a little on its own unfairness in this discussion. Then there is a need for hospital economy in several places, including: because there are several drugs that can be used and that push costs in hospitals. It's hard because the ambitions to treat and reduce waiting times even more are big. But there have been great improvements during this year. So the criticism of the hospital economy from the professor who was mentioned is, among other things, concerned. 30 years of planning with fewer hospital days. But they're bed places.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e223	Olaug Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e229	Using resources in health right is both important and right, because we all want to treat as many patients as possible so that they get a better life. After the last round of tenders in the health south-east, one concluded by adding 29 points for multidisciplinary special treatment in health care in the south-east. One then chose to build up ten new places within the country’s own hospital and then put down offers from non-profit actors who have demonstrated competence, demonstrated knowledge, had a good reputation and, not least, showed good results. So my question to the Prime Minister is: Is this the right use of resources – building up in a hospital that is struggling per day, and at the same time rebuilding the government's desire for free treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e236	I think we should be careful with the detailed regulation of tendering processes in the hospital sector with the model and governance model we have today. It must also be for hospitals to assess what is the right tender, who is of sufficient quality. I believe that quality assessments must be an important element in this. So I believe that we have to make sure that it is not that we build offers in the public sector and replace offers in the private sector whose quality is as good, or in some cases better. This means that the government has also been very clear that in order to get enough capacity and to maintain good offers, we have bought more, especially in the field of care, through the tendering process. I believe it is important to see that there are actors with long traditions, who have very good results, and who have not least built up an offer that goes between the specialist health service and the follow-up work, which is very important that we do not lose, even though it is actually divided into two different levels of administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e243	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e248	Today Norwegian farmers were in place to serve breakfast in front of Stortinget. This means that we are immediately running this year's agricultural business. Farming is an important issue for agriculture; it is an important issue for Norway and for everyone concerned with good and safe food. I can promise the Prime Minister that the Center Party is also ready. Active agriculture and food production throughout the country are needed to ensure a healthy and safe population. It takes to secure settlement throughout the country. It takes to secure our total preparedness. And agriculture is the basis of our largest mainland industry. Farm business is largely about producing food in Norway. The size has determined that the income of the farmer is the most important means of achieving the objectives set for Norwegian agriculture. The goal, agreed by Stortinget, is to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other social groups. The speech in front of the spring farm business shows that the incomes of the farmers fall. The result of four years of liberalisation and centralisation of agricultural policy is coming one day. Agricultural settlements in 2017 were still broken and the Stortinget was forced to intervene in order to change its government’s agricultural policy proposal. In the election in the fall, the three most agricultural liberalist parties in Stortinget lost their majority in Stortinget. This year's agricultural policy will be a struggle to have an agricultural policy in the whole country with good animal welfare and with both large and small gardens. So my question is, will the Prime Minister this year make sure that we get an agricultural settlement that meets the Stortinge's goal of reducing income differences between agriculture and other groups in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e261	From 2014 to the present, the income of the farmers has increased significantly. But it is true that the Budgetary Department now points out that the last year costs have made revenue slightly lower than what was foreseen. The reduction is due in particular to two conditions. One is that there is overproduction in the markets. So in part of the markets we have, the stimulus of politics is like that, and a little market failure makes the market full. Let me say that when we dealt with the agricultural notification in 2012, producing more in Norway was a major target. We've done that -- we're producing more, but now it's overproduction, for example. in the non-unknown area of lamb and sheep, and the Central Party has before stressed that it was not going to be in the sheep's cabbage with this government. There has now been overproduction, and this means that the cost of taking this down must be allocated to all the farmers. The second is some cost increases such as: is due to the future of interest rates in relation to real interest rates, inter alia: because in 2016 we had a significantly higher inflation due to, inter alia, the fall in oil prices and the changes in dollar rates. It's important to say that's what's the main reason why these operations are going to be different. So that's how we first get the demands of the agricultural organisations. Then the government has to answer. And then I think that the conditions around what the government answers to the agricultural settlement come when we're done with our offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e274	The situation of overproduction in agriculture is largely a consequence of government policies. One has weakened the ability of agriculture to regulate the market. One has refused to introduce new measures and one has opened up for more imports of food. So it's been a few years since the government took the credit for everything from good weather to good yields and good profits in TINE. Now the income drops, and then everyone else is wrong. I think it's a relevant question I have, because it's the Stortinget, not the government, that lays the framework for agricultural policy. We did that during the processing of the agricultural notification, which is a clear income target. My question is not about the relationship between the government and the farmers' organizations, but about the relationship between the Storting and the government, and the question is, Will the income target be taken into consideration by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e281	Of course, in respect of the fact that these are negotiations between the government and the agricultural organisations, we follow the long-term leaders from the Stortinget. But to give an answer on how we put up our answer to a claim that has not yet been delivered, I think I would be completely wrong. I think that it would undermine the whole institute of negotiations if the Stortinget were to be informed of what we think about the negotiations before we actually started the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e286	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Force Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e291	A year ago, Prime Minister Erna Solberg traveled on an agricultural rally — in and out of the water, greeting calves, and bragging about how much the government had received. It was absolutely amazing what the Solberg regime had done, especially in 2014 and 2015, when the results of the red-green government's agricultural settlement broke in. When there is a decline, there is no responsibility to trace to the Prime Minister – when her agricultural settlement actually begins to work and we see the charging policy. So when you see the base numbers, it's going to be 60 pst. of the reduced incomes of agriculture, explained by the Government’s great willingness to increase the taxes on Norwegian business. That's the main explanation. Finally, my question to the Prime Minister – she said there are market challenges: does the Prime Minister agree that it is unwise to give more customs concessions and reduce customs protection if there are to be new market opportunities in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e298	I agree that for the area of milk production, we should be careful at the moment to grant more tariff concessions, because there is to be a considerable adjustment in milk production in Norway because export subsidies – and thus Jarlsberg production abroad – are decreasing in the future. It's a pretty big part of this, and it requires adjustments in terms of production itself. It is part of what we have agreed to in the WTO context, and which are negotiations we have done, where we generally believe that subsidies of food for sale abroad are not good, because it undermines the agricultural sector of developing countries. Therefore, there must be common positions related to it. This means that in this area, it is important that we have an adaptation challenge in the next few years. We have had overproduction because the market demands a little less of some goods, but also because we have actually achieved the objectives of producing more in Norway, objectives that the red-green government set itself, but failed to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e305	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e311	I remember very well how Erna Solberg and her women and men reacted when we improved customs protection just for milk production in the autumn of 2012. The right said that they would change the customs improvements – before one had taken off the coat, as Svein Fleet at the SMK expressed it. I understand from the answer that now the Prime Minister supports the percentage increase that was in autumn 2012, that we are not going to get any new impetus from the Right to reduce customs protection for the milk sector. In that case it is a step forward, because in the last period you tried it at first. Finally, I have a question: The government submitted an agricultural message to the Stortinget last year. It didn't get a majority. Now there is another majority of the Storting that wants a different agricultural policy and a much clearer and clearer income target – one cannot accept that the incomes of agriculture have fallen by DKK 14 500 in the last two years. Will Erna Solberg assume that the bulk of the population is different from the majority of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e318	Firstly, I would like to say that the changes in the subsidies to Jarlsberg and export subsidies occurred in 2015, so it is a relationship from after that agricultural tariff. The centre party is in order to increase customs duties and to ensure less trade in general – in any case. We've seen that right now we're in a difficult adjustment situation, and it's going to last until 2020. Of course, the treatment of the agricultural message in the Storting is fundamental to what we are going to do on the part of the government. We know that we're a minority government, so it's a majority that's said something about the prospects of the agricultural notification. Then, every year, it must be adapted to the economic realities we are facing, and to the situation in the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e325	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e330	Food policy is a policy for the security of the people of our entire country. Therefore, it is worrying when the Prime Minister does not take seriously the difficult situation in which Norwegian food production is now facing. The debts of those who are going to produce our food go up, the income goes down, and the differences are increasing. This weakens Norway’s long-term ability to produce enough and natural, safe food for the Norwegian population. The Labour Party cannot accept the developments we are now seeing with unwanted debt growth and imbalances. We are going to fight for a sustainability in food production that ensures that young people have the opportunity to have work in the future. My question is then clear and clear: is the Prime Minister concerned when Sylvi Listhaug and Jon Georg Dale have submitted to a policy that pressures young people to take up large loans, and the revenue is now falling?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e339	From 2014 to 2016 the income of Norwegian farmers in agriculture increased by 20 pst. per annual work. The average employee's growth was 4.5 pst. From 2016 to 2017, agricultural income decreased by 1,8 pst, and by 2,2 pst. in the estimate for 2018 in the budget. In the course of this four-year period there will still be a significant difference in the increase in the income of farmers compared to that of ordinary employees. The words should probably be a little bit smaller than those that were put forward right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e346	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e351	The diversity of power and wealth is increasing in Norway, and there is a development that the government is actively contributing to — both by rigging the tax system for the economic elite, by weakening the rights of workers and through unsocial cuts that affect those who have the least. We need a completely different policy – an economic policy for the many, not the few, and an economic policy that puts people at least ahead of the billionaire class. We already know that the government doesn't know what the result of the tax cuts of the rich has been, they spend billions on something they're not able to document has a positive impact on the Norwegian economy. Today I would like to find out whether the Prime Minister has investigated how things are going with those who are completely at the other end of Norwegian society, those who have been hit by Prime Minister Erna Solberg's various social cuts for people who are sick or have little. First to the children of the disabled: The government carried out banging hard cuts against several thousand children who have a mother or a father who is disabled. I wonder if the Prime Minister has investigated whether any of these children have lost the opportunity to participate in handball, football or other normal leisure activities because of the cuts the government has made poor families poorer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e360	Firstly, I would like to stress that we are taking the poverty challenges of Norwegian society seriously. The increase in the number of poor children is a challenge that is among the six main challenges that the government has identified on the Jeløya platform. So we also know something about the reasons why the number is increasing. The main reasons are that we have had large immigration in the form of asylum seekers who have been given residence and family reunification. That is why we have a challenge in terms of integration. So the main challenge for lifting children out of poverty in Norway is to make sure that their parents get to work. That is why we have said that we should have an integration promise because we are not satisfied with the results of integration. When under 50 pst. – a place between 45 pst. and 47 pst. – of those who have come to Norway as asylum seekers or quota refugees, it is one of the explanations. That's why we have to get a lot better at it. Then we have put in several good measures to reduce poverty challenges in general. We have introduced parental-reduced schemes, free half-day space in the SFO, similar schemes in kindergartens, which are located on the Jeleya platform for lower-income children, the offer of free kindergarten to all children in integration receptions and increased housing support. This is a proposal that we will continue to work on. In addition, the government has also started much of this. There are many of those with low income who now have lower child care costs; there are many who get higher benefits when applying for a student loan in high school and receive more scholarships, because we have focused more on the group that has the most difficulty. In this area, the government has focused significantly on those who have the most difficulty, as I understand the main issue was, and which is the lowest in income distribution in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e367	This was an impressive amount of non-talk, without answering my question. The government has been very focused on just the group I was talking about now, and has cut into disability in a way that makes some of the poorest families even poorer, and I wonder if the Prime Minister knows how they are doing. Let me then follow up with the next group: those who have been cut off in support of physiotherapy. These are people who have been through amputation, fire damage, people with developmental disabilities who have severe motor plagues. All of these groups got increased proportions in the government's budget a few years ago, and I wonder if the Prime Minister has checked whether any of these ends of using less of the absolutely necessary physical therapy because it comes with a bill that wasn't there before. So I remind you that it is also possible to answer my first question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e374	I felt that the main question to the representative was whether we were following those at the bottom of the income path. That's what was the beginning of the question, and I answered that. So we don't initially have an overview of what benefits they've received before, and what the change in exactly that benefit has been. But we're going to go a lot further and think that if you're a child of low-income parents, if you're a disability, or if you're in transition, or if there's other reason why you have low income, we're going to make sure you get the opportunities in the future as a child. I assume it's not like you're going to get a performance just because you got it once. It's actually so that everyone should be treated in a non-discriminatory way and get help when you need it. It's not like we've done a detailed review of those who were previously given free physiotherapy and who are now paying a fraction for this, and we haven't done a review of whether the chroniclers who didn't receive free physiotherapy get more now when they have received a lower payment than they had before, because we lowered the self-interest for everyone. There were large groups of chroniclers who weren't on that list and who are paying less with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e381	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e387	Okay, so the government cut off some of the poorest families and didn't check the results. The government has increased the propensity of some of the most vulnerable people in the country and has not checked the consequences. Let me make a third attempt: housing support. There is much less money spent on housing support now than a few years ago, despite the fact that the housing market under this government has become tougher, among other things. due to a passive housing policy. Has the Prime Minister checked whether any families have had to leave their homes in order to live under worse conditions as a result of the Prime Minister's cut and lack of investment in housing support?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e394	We're following the housing social work very closely. It's one of the areas that under this government has really shown results. We have gone from more than 6,000 homeless people to approx. 3 400 homeless people in Norway, because we have worked hard – working with municipalities – to ensure that the homeless receive a better offer. So if we go back to talking about those who absolutely have the worst, those who are actually at the bottom of the ladder, then this government is showing better results than what you did, the Audun Light Hill, when you were in government, just when it comes to combating homelessness. And that's because we have a better relationship in treatment services, because we've prioritised care and because we're working with the municipalities about this relationship. It was a major and important priority for Jan Tore Sanner in the work on housing social measures. And then we've maintained a transitional arrangement for disabled people who had housing support in the past, for a longer period, to make sure you don't get big changes in spite of the disability change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e399	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e404	I would like to remind the Prime Minister that the speech will go through the President even when you cannot answer the questions. I record that I am not being answered to any of my questions, and that the Prime Minister has not checked how things are going with those affected by the unsocial cuts. Let me then finally ask for a cut that we are for. Recently, free school lunch was introduced at the high schools in our common home country. This occurred after a budgetary cooperation between the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. The right was against it and called it a silly use of money. But the last time I checked, the Prime Minister's office still had a fruit scheme, which allowed the Prime Minister and the rest of the political leadership to eat free fruit. Is that still the case, or is it also nonsense that the Prime Minister has brought an end to?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e411	First of all, I would like to stress that we think it's fine that you have food at school, that you take care of it, but that's just not a priority for the state. There's something that goes on the outside of having money for what we're betting on: more and more competent teachers a major continuing training project, which has helped us to now have about 10 000 up-to-date math teachers in Norwegian schools. It has happened through the offer we have given. We think it's easier for parents to put an apple in the back pocket than they put in a math teacher to have extra hours in the afternoon to get their kids to have competence in that subject. We believe that the state must give priority to this offer. We have said that we are very strong because the municipalities find good solutions to how they serve and what they do. They can find arrangements that are appropriate, but we do not want an A4 scheme that is financed from the State budget. Rather, we will provide knowledge and competence. There is still fruit and green in the Prime Minister's office. If that's important to the representative, we can probably cut it out. We basically don't have the same arrangements that many people here have in other areas. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e429	The President will remind you that speaking time is not indicative. It's 1 minute or 2 minutes in the quiz. Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e436	First, I want to say a little bit about the description of reality: after all, unemployment is falling, fortunately, and more secure jobs are created, which is definitely the most important thing to do with poverty problems. At the same time, we know that there is an increasing number of children growing up in poor families, and it is extremely important to provide targeted measures. In this area, we have had a lot of cooperation with the government to help those who are living in permanent poverty, who cannot get into work, and who need, for example. leisure services, holiday services, etc. In the past, the Prime Minister has made clear promises that I have liked very well, including: that all children should have the right to a leisure offer. I want to challenge the Prime Minister if she has succeeded in that goal. If she is not in the target, what does she intend to do to ensure that all children have the right to a leisure or holiday offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e443	These are some of the areas in which significant increases have been made, both by the government and through budgetary convergence at Stortinget, in the follow-up to our action plan on child poverty. It has been evaluated and found to be targeted, it works well, and the offers are good. It also shows that both municipalities and non-governmental organisations are using these schemes to target offers. We're based on the fact that this is a system where we have an agreement between the municipalities, everyone in the voluntary sector, sport and the state, where everyone is going to make an effort to give everyone an opportunity to have a leisure offer. Our experience is that this works well, but of course it is not certain that it works well everywhere and in all municipalities, but the municipalities have a responsibility to follow it up. These funds, up to 270 million in 2018. kr, which has increased by nearly 200 pst. from the 2014 budget, contributes to the participation of children from economically disadvantaged families in both holiday and leisure activities. Some of the major grant schemes go to the Red Cross and other organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e450	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e455	The goal of the Christian People's Party is a warmer society, a society where inclusion comes ahead of exclusion. I fear a society where groups fall outside. One of the groups I'm most concerned about is a few people talking about: those who don't fit in, those who are unwanted, those who are sorted out. For example, modern medical technology can lead to the future not being born human with Down's syndrome, and we know that nine out of ten children who are diagnosed with Down's syndrome are sorted out before they are born, even in our own country. There's a reason to ask ourselves this question: if we start with Down's syndrome, where are we going to stop? Soon two weeks ago, we saw how the national meeting in the Right chose to take major steps in the liberalising direction of biotechnology and away from the rights of children. Many in the Right, however, express a priceless resistance to getting a sort society. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Right is just warning of the danger of a sorting society, but I also want to say: the sorting is already happening today, and it's not enough with good words and formulations in a principle program, it's the practical decisions that really govern this. The Prime Minister has a close and good relationship with the Right and Right national meetings, but she stands here today as the leader of a government. I want to challenge her on what is the government's vision for this, for the fight against the sorting society. Is there a willingness to go to concrete measures, where one assesses a reversal of PGD, i.e. one allows disease-testing of fertilising eggs in order to hatch germinal life with certain types of properties? Would you like to consider what a duplicate was done away with. Would you like to consider changing §2c of the abortion law, which is the basis for sorting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e464	Firstly, I would like to stress that I agree with the representative Hareide that it is important to have deep reflections on some of these questions. Therefore, the right has also spent a long time evaluating them. I think we can sort a lot of these questions into two bunkers. One is that many people want to have children, which I think is a positive wish, for which I have a great understanding. So we know that almost every seventh pregnancy today, I think it is, has received some kind of help, among other things. because you have a child late. This means that facilitating the birth of children in the past should be an important priority, simply because it means that perhaps fewer people need different kinds of help. The other thing that I think is an important limit is precisely the sorting society. I don't feel that the decisions that were made at the Røjres national meeting sort out what they sort under the first part, namely the desire to have children, and the desire for more people to have children. I'm concerned that we also need to see some points of light. I know that nine out of ten children in which indications of Down syndrome are found are aborted – many of them are done after foetal diagnostics. Then it's important to remember that 50 pst. by those who receive an offer of foetal water diagnostics, do not take it. That means that maybe a lot of those who take it already have an indication, a fear or a reason for it, while there are many who make a positive choice. So it's not as black and white, in my opinion, that these numbers sometimes indicate. I'm concerned that we're going to look at all of these points. In the case of §2c, I agree with the Christian People's Party in this. My party does not agree with the Christian People's Party, after a change in 2013. I believe that this is not really important, because I believe that the abortion law today would allow everyone to have an abortion after the 12th week, even in such a case, but I believe it is wrong that we have such a list.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e476	I thank you for your answer and am pleased that the Prime Minister will take a look at this. One of the points I picked up was twins. It was also a change that the government of Solberg did without what I experienced as an ethical assessment, but a purely legal assessment of such an ethically important question. Some of the debate that marked the Justice National Meeting was a real desire to avoid a sorting society, and I am pleased about that. But one also had an approach that said: we can't ban anything that there's demand for. It was an argument that was used, and what I think is a very dangerous approach. Because there is no doubt that if there is demand and supply that underlie this, the path to a sorting society will be open. Does the Prime Minister agree that a purely demand-thinking approach cannot be based on such important ethical issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e483	I fully agree that there cannot be a demand for, or a desire to know more about, his fetus that will be the basis for it. There are ethical assessments that should be the basis. One reason why we say in our law that one is not allowed to know gender until after the twelfth week is not that the girl child is sorted away in Norway, there is a awareness that it happens in many countries. It was an important matter on which a fairly broad majority in the United Kingdom fully agreed when we discussed these questions. Although there is a great demand to know the gender already at an early stage, we should not give access to it anyway. Equal opportunities were also not important to me in the matter of egg donation or not. In a couple or in a family where the man's sperm quality is too bad, it may not be as big a woman question to have the child as it is for the man to be allowed to be a donor or to deliver. I think we should think about the family as a whole. But I think that must be an ethical basis, and that is the child's rights that must be the basis of both of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e494	It opens for follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e499	The Christian People's Party is as clear in 2018 as we were 15 years ago, that there is a need for a strict biotechnology law, with the same vision that has been there all the way – a biotechnology law to be exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for everyone, where respect for human dignity and human rights is to be based, and where one should have personal integrity without discrimination on the basis of legacy facilities. It's in today's Biotechnology Act. That's why the Christian People's Party continues to say no to sorting, to egg donation, and to surrogati. It's precisely because we want to show the vision that's in the Biotechnology Act, so clearly. Soon everything is technically possible, and we have to set some limits on the choices we politicians make. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister agree that when things go so fast, it is incredibly important to put ethics ahead of technology and have a precautionary principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e506	I agree that we must both put ethics ahead of the technique and practice a precautionary principle. This is one of the reasons why I do not think it is so difficult that Norway is probably one of the last countries in Europe to allow egg donation. We've spent a long time in this country creating a possible majority for that. It makes us see consequences elsewhere, see how the effects are. We're getting more knowledge of that. At that point, then, the Right National Meeting has distinguished itself from what we have previously thought about it, perhaps because the precautionary principle has been practised over a long time, thought through, and saw how development has been. We have quite good evidence that the child experiences a very strong relationship with the mother who gives birth to it. There's a separate process in it that makes the connection big. I thought it was a difficult question. I also think it's a question in which Norwegian society has spent time not getting involved in new technology, but sees the consequences for the children before you possibly change this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e515	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e520	It's an important question the Christian People's Party raises here. What's technologically possible is almost boundless, and some people think that what we're facing in the future in biotechnology will be a sort of goodbye to biology. So one might say that individual decisions in themselves and that we are the last countries in Europe to allow egg donation help to generalize things, but it does not become ethical and valuable for that reason. It's so with both surrogati and egg donation that for the first time in history genetic mother and biological mother will be separated. It's a very difficult and important principle to separate genetic and biological mothers. It gives some perspective that's pretty scary. I would ask the Prime Minister to reflect on some of the future dilemmas she sees in such a development, if there are no limits to such a development.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e525	I fully agree that there are many possibilities now that technology makes our genetic belongings, our origins and long lines of kin very broken. For a conservative, it is also an important part. We come from a place, not just environmental, but we have a line, and that's going to be an important part of who you are. At the same time we know that of the adopted children there are some who are concerned about it, and some who are absolutely not concerned about it at all, who work well and think it is good anyway. For society, these are the challenges that we simply have to have some basic attitudes to, and we have to look at it in a case. When I e.g. says that we've come closer to egg donation, because we now have much more experience and knowledge of what happened to the children born with egg donation in many other countries, and we can see how they relate to their biological mother who gave birth to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e532	We move on to the next main question – from Per Espen Stoknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e537	The government talks a lot about climate and environment, both at home and outside, and recently the Prime Minister was far inside the jungle to both dance and talk about the importance of taking care of the earth's climate, as well as about Norway's efforts. We think that's very good. But at home, too, we and the government have great targets for progress in climate policy. It also has the MDG City Council in Oslo, where from 2015 to 2016 it was able to cut the greenhouse gas emissions by a total of 8 pst. By comparison, under the Prime Minister's leadership, the government was only able to cut 1 pst. throughout Norway during the same period. Oslo is now gaining recognition in the UN. Buenos Aires and Shanghai will learn from Oslo's climate policy. Oslo has set high targets while demonstrating that targeted work and the effective implementation of measures deliver results — if there is a willingness to do so. Therefore, Oslo reached the climate target for 2017 already in 2016. The government, on the other hand, is far behind schedule, and Norway, at the current pace, will be a low-carbon society of about a quarter. 2018 year, according to the government's own form. It's nice that the Prime Minister goes out into the jungle to learn and learn away. But could she also plan to explore around here, explore the politics of the city where she lives, to learn how it is actually possible to do the emission cuts that you promise – and as the Prime Minister is so clear that she is eager to reach and achieve at a national level?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e548	I want to start by stressing that I only live temporarily in Oslo, because of the job – I live in Bergen. I don't want anything else hanging out with me. But it's a nice city to be temporarily resident in, and I think it's good that you have good emission reductions in Oslo. I would like to say, perhaps, that some of the emission reductions will come in cooperation with the government and the government's policy. For example, it is not Oslo that has made the electric car policy for Norway – it is in fact a broad majority of the Stortinget that has been over many years, contributing to significant reductions. When every other car sold in Oslo is an electric car and therefore contributes to less CO 2 emissions in the city, there is probably not something that can only be approved on the MDG list from the Oslo City Council. I might say that what takes the cost of it is actually the state budget. Similarly, it is when Oslo under this government receives more support for public transport than they were previously given. This means that the solutions in the collective sector in Oslo have also depended on having had a government that has contributed more support to public transport in Oslo than was the case in the past. So maybe we'll divide by some of the results. So it's like in a densely built area, like Oslo, it's easier to find some climate solutions. That Oslo is a city without industry, also produces fewer emissions. But a country like Norway cannot be a country without industry and industrial workplaces. It's going to live in people across the country, and then there's some other costs of CO 2 emissions that also exist. Then it will not necessarily be the Oslo solutions that are the most effective solutions, but perhaps the national contributions, namely the fact that we are still stimulating low-carbon cars and the ability to do something about it. I still have a lot of understanding that Oslo is also doing its part in reducing both private car rental and providing better collective networks, but they have a good partner in government right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e568	In Oslo, there has been a reduction in the vast majority of sectors of the economy, and not just in electric cars, which we know is also happy with. In the climate communication that the government has now sent for treatment, history repeats itself, in the sense that ambitious targets are set to be met elsewhere and by other countries, and the result will probably once again be high national emissions. Will the Prime Minister work for a sectoral climate budget like that of Oslo, with concrete instruments to ensure that we actually achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in all sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e573	The fundamental implementation of climate policy in Norway is twofold. One is through own reductions, especially in the non-quota sector, which are mainly the transport and agricultural sectors in Norway. The second is to do so at European level in the context of the quota sector. We believe that this is right in the interests of employment, in the interests of our comparative advantage in the future, in the interests of ensuring that the CO 2 cuts where it is most effective for the world community. Where we have the most efficient production, although there are CO 2 emissions, this should happen because we have greater CO 2 emissions and less efficient production elsewhere. That's what the ETS gives us. I think that's a very basic answer. In some areas, emissions of CO 2 in Norway could rise, while contributing to a decline in world emissions. It's a logic that's important to remember when there's a global problem we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e590	There will be follow-up questions – first Per Espen Stoknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e595	In this climate communication, there is a wide range of Norwegian climate targets promoted by the government. There are a whole six target formulations, which have different time horizons, different scale and different level of ambition. I'm not going to read them out, because then the whole minute just goes to the goal formulations, and neither does the Prime Minister ask if she can reproduce them, because they're so complex and foggy formulated that very few know or understand them. In management and strategy research, it is emphasised that in order to bring about change, you need to have very clear and simple goals that people get. The Green Party was therefore disappointed with this climate communication, with such vague targets, and fears a new round of fog talks about how it will be achieved in cooperation with other countries. We are therefore promoting a short and constructive proposal: a maximum of 21 million. tonnes of CO 2 in 2030. That's 60 pst. cut in relation to 1990. Will the government and the Right, who say they support a green transition, support such a committed, clear, simple goal for Norway's own climate budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e605	The government has promoted its climate communication to Stortinget. There we have said that we should implement what we said at the Paris meeting, which was the basis of the Paris Agreement. This means that through our participation in the EU ETS, we will contribute to the 43 pst cut. in the ETS sector that the EU has set itself as a target, and we will then, in cooperation with the EU, implement 40 pst. cut in the quota sector in Norway, with an agreement on the implementation bit. I believe that is an ambitious and demanding goal, but which I hope and believe we will be able to achieve. That is the target from 2020 to 2030. Then we have a goal of becoming climate neutral in 2050. It requires a significantly greater investment in new technologies and other changes. But I still think that the goal we have is not particularly complicated. It is important to include, and it is important to remember that this is also about ensuring employment, industrial development, climate-friendly solutions and less global emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e610	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e615	In May 2016 the government announced that Norway would train Syrian insurgents to fight against the Islamic State, IS. Now it is revealed that militias trained by Norway instead wage war for regime change in Syria. Assad is the main target, according to the leader of the Norwegian militia, the revolutionary command army. Solberg gave a clear promise to the Stortinget and the Norwegian people: Norwegian soldiers were to be sent to Jordan to provide training, advice and operational support to Syrian insurgents in the fight against IS. Solberg said nothing about training militias for regime change wars in Syria, but now two leaders of a Norwegian-Turkish militia confirm that this is the case. They say straight out that their main priority is not to fight the IS, but to wage war against Syria's government army. By training militias who are fighting for regime change, the government has helped to extend the war and the civil suffering in Syria, to help Saudi Arabia and Islamic groups extend their defeated war for regime change and undermine international law and hence Norway's vital security interests. This also means that the Solberg government has misinformed the Storting about the training assignment in Jordan, unless the government has examined whether the training assignment is in line with the mandate. I would therefore like answers to the following: Has the government been aware that militias trained by Norwegian soldiers are waging war for regime change, or is this completely new information? And what has the government done to investigate and ensure that the training assignment is carried out in line with the mandate given to the Stortinget and the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e626	The training assignment that Norwegian soldiers were on in Jordan is carried out in line with the information that Stortinget has received, in line with what has been revealed outwards, and in line with what has been said from this pulpit earlier in Stortinget. So we moved the operational effort from Jordan/Syria to Iraq and ended the training of these types of groups on 20 October last year. So we haven't had any activity in the last few months, so we've finished this whole assignment in March. But I also want to remember what I said from the Stortinge pulpit on November 15, 2016: ‘The supported local groups are subject to a clearing process. It is a demanding work that needs to be carried out continuously, which is one of the reasons why we send some of our most experienced soldiers to solve the mission. However, I would like to reiterate that we can never have an absolute guarantee of where the loyalty of local actors lies in the future." The information that has emerged today is what these forces have done after Norway has completed its mission and has no longer participated in training on this, because we have territorially turned back IS – although we know that we need to work on fighting for a long, long time in the future. I therefore believe that the basis of today's newspapers on what the government should have failed and said is wrong. We have informed that we never have a guarantee of what these do later, and so we have completed this mission, as the Stortinget was informed on 20 October last year, by moving operational responsibility and work into Iraq at general training, and not the monitoring mission, which could also cross the border with Syria.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e638	The source is Muhannad al-Talla, commander-in-chief of the militia, the revolutionary commanding army, which has been trained by Norwegian soldiers. He says, "I've been quite clear from the very beginning that I'm fighting against IS and Assad forces." It is also in the same case that the person, i.e. al-Talla, to his Western allies has never concealed that his soldiers would also fight against IS. In September 2016, a figure from the same militia said that they would fight Assad as soon as ISIS was defeated – in September 2016. My question is: When did the government know that Norwegian interest-rate militias are also fighting the Assad for regime change in Syria, were they in violation of the mandate given to the Stortinget and the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e644	We have underlined – and I can stress again what I said in my previous reply – that we have been clear and clear that our training mandate has been the fight against IS. This is what the training and monitoring has been about. We completed the operation from Jordan towards Syria on 20 October last year, moved the activity to Iraq and have not trained these groups at that time and have completed the entire training. That's why I want to say that it's completely in line with what the Stortinget has been informed about. We've always been open so that we can never be sure how loyalty – and the struggle – will be to these groups after the IS is turned back. But we've had a mission where Norwegian soldiers have contributed to fighting IS through this training.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e649	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e655	Yes, then Solberg could not have read the newspapers – already in 2016 the same militia we have trained said that they must of course also fight the regime and not just against IS – and that is interesting in that case. Eriksen Soreide has previously stated that international law is Norway’s first line defence. This is entirely in agreement with the fact that international law protects small states from militaryly stronger states. But the government is taking a stand against international law when the U.S. asks us to. Eriksen Soreide himself was proud of the regime shift bombing that destroyed Libya. The government sends soldiers into Syria – it is now revealed – without a UN mandate and expresses an understanding of a rocket attack on Syria that clearly undermines international law. I want an answer from the Prime Minister as to whether she supports the United States and NATO breaking down international law today, and how it is expected that international law will protect Norway from other major powers in the future when we are involved in undermining it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e662	The Libya Action was after a mandate from the Security Council. There is no basis for asking questions about that. The previous government chose to contribute air forces to Libya following a mandate from the Security Council. It was an interesting experience, for we had discussions in a Question Time here with former foreign minister Jonas Gahr Støre on Wednesday, where it was very uncertain what the government would do. On Friday the planes were in the air, because then the Security Council had taken a different decision. It is therefore not possible to say – as the representative says – that it did not have a basis for international law. It had a basis for international law through a mandate from the Security Council. On the issue of international law, we have explained the basis for the training we have done by forces to combat IS in Syria. We believe that to be a good thing. In the case of the last case, we have not made an independent assessment of international law regarding that bombing. But is this the way – and I think the French have given it a good idea – that the UN Pact is designed to protect criminals who break a ban on chemical weapons almost a hundred years old?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e671	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e676	The rocket attack on Syria before the weekend was met with understanding from the Norwegian government while NATO made it clear that all the allies supported the attack. SV has gone against it because we fear it can make hurt worse in Syria, and that kind of attack does not help the suffering civilians. In addition, even if your intentions were to be good, we have to be extra careful in a situation where there is an unpredictable president in charge of the United States. As the editor of The Atlantic said, even if you're offered to sit on the church, you won't get in the car if the driver's full. But the last reason is this about international law. I would like to know whether that is how Norway understands or supports the military attack. And if Norway supports it, it is difficult to understand that there has been no independent assessment of the basis of international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e683	It is important to remember that we have had a ban in the world on the use of chemical weapons since World War I – a world war that showed how terrible chemical weapons are. So it's in a very special position. It's nothing new that American presidents have set this as a red line. So did Obama in 2012 when he said: "We have been very clear to the Assad regime – but also to other players on the ground – that a red line for us is we start seeing a whole bunker of chemical blows moving around or being disabled." That's when he hit a red line. There has been the red border of the Americans all the time for counterattacks related to this. So there's not one president behind this, this has been a broad American action. We have not been consulted in advance. So we're not a participant in this. Therefore, it is unnatural for us to use the word ‘support’ at national level. But it is that, in terms of the consensus in NATO, we have given support based on the statements, and also what is stated in the statement, based on the statements given by those who have implemented this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e697	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e703	I will begin by quoting from the Newspaper on 26 March, where it said the following: ‘When the conversation penetrates the Norwegian social model, she becomes engaged. Tells that she has visited almost all the corners of the world, how she has proudly shared stories about Norwegian social democracy and the welfare state. Now the laws have been replaced by concepts such as ‘raw capitalism’ and ‘maximum profit’. These are words from an interview with Heidi Haldorsen. Heidi is one of 700 Norwegian seafarers who can lose their job at Color Lines Kiel-ferger. The background is that the government will make changes so that Color Line can flag these two ferries, with the result that Norwegian seafarers can be replaced by foreign workers. We have repeatedly addressed this with the Minister of Industry, but the situation seems to be stuck. This means that the government gives Color Line a mandate to make Heidi and her colleagues insecure, because the likelihood that Heidi or her colleagues will be replaced by non-resident workers who are willing to work for a lower salary is highly real and probable. It's Color Line that has to do the physical action, but it's the government and the prime minister that have to bear responsibility for the insecurity of Heidi and many other seafarers now experiencing. Why is the government doing this? The net pay scheme has been strengthened, the krone price weakened and the competitive disadvantage against e.g.: Denmark dramatically reduced. Color Line doesn't go bad; it's going very well. The accounts show about 1 billion. kr in pre-tax profits accumulated over the last two years. Hundreds of millions have been made into dividends. To me, this is incomprehensible. This is not what the Norwegian Labour Party wants, but it seems to be what the Prime Minister wants – a Norway where differences are increasing, and where ordinary workers are the ones who have to put pressure on them. This time it's the seafarers, next time: we don't know who. The question is: why will the Prime Minister put 700 Norwegian seafarers on land and facilitate their replacement by foreign workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e719	Let me first point out that it is not the authorities that determine where the shipping companies flag their ships; it is the shipping companies that do. And the government's policy is clear: we want as many Norwegian seafarers as possible on Norwegian ships. That's why we're using 2 billion. kr to ensure employment of seafarers. The aid only applies to those who tax Norway, but it has always been such that EEA citizens who fulfil the conditions of the grant may be included in the scheme. We have a policy to strengthen the maritime sector and the framework conditions for shipping, and we believe the conditions in NOR are good. The extension of the fairway, i.e. the extension of the area of operation of foreign ferries in NIS, was done to ensure that Norwegian ships are competitive and have competitive conditions. It's also done to prevent Color Line flagging their ships to a foreign registry. So for us, it's not between 0 and 700 jobs, but it's a question of 700 or 2,500 jobs. That's the perspective we've had on this case, and that's also the perspective that can be there. We believe that if we do not implement this change, the future of Color Line, with its head office in Norway, will be weaker. This will mean that 2,500 jobs in Norway are uncertain. So it's up to the Workers' Party to ask themselves the question: Is 2,500 jobs important to play with, because you think you don't want to move on? The decision is also in line with the recommendation of the majority of the Committee on the Law and Law of the Sea, which was announced in the Government’s Maritime Strategy in 2015, a maritime strategy that has contributed to a significantly more flagging of ships, which contributes to a positive development for industry. I am aware that you want to have other rules attached to this, but you also have to be aware that then we can risk moving the whole activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e732	First of all, it's actually wrong what the prime minister says the shipping companies decide. No, it's the government that adds up to what the shipping companies can decide. It is the Prime Minister and the Government that have to bear responsibility for the framework conditions that lie there, and now the government will open up so that the shipping companies can reflag from NOR to NIS, with the result that Norwegian seafarers can be put ashore and replaced by foreign workers. Understand that one who can at a time when we actually need more in work and not less. The Prime Minister points out that several ships are now flagged under the Norwegian flag, but employment among seafarers is falling. It's quite challenging and demanding. The situation from 2014, where the Maritime Committee made its recommendation to the Government, has changed significantly. The competitive disadvantages are almost equivalent away. Therefore, my follow-up question is: Has the government at all assessed the changed assumptions of 2014, or has it engaged in dialogue with Color Line if necessary, or is it just determined that 700 Norwegian seafarers should be put on land?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e739	We are determined that we think it is great with 2,500 jobs in Norway within Color Lines and the major ringing effects it has. So we have made an assessment – that the short term is better framework conditions, does not mean that it is in the long term. We know that it's already an area where there's been threats of emigration right if we don't make these changes. We believe that with the party-combined area committee we had from 2014, where we would make improvements to a number of arrangements, this was one of the things we would do to make sure that we were also competitive. Obviously, you can make other choices and say that we don't, but at the risk of losing 2,500 jobs. That's the assessment the government has made, and that's the background of the position we've taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e746	There will be follow-up questions – first Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e752	I want to go back to the Newspaper, because the employees on the Color Line say a lot wisely. Marika was one of the ladies who stood up, and she expressed concern for those who have briefly returned to retirement and know nothing but life at sea. And Per Magne is understandably afraid that he can now lose what he calls his life's work. He has mortgages, he has a newborn baby, his wife also works in Color Line, and none of them have formal education. Living in such an uncertainty is living in a very big life crisis. So it boils down to the fact that it's people's life and security we're talking about. For the Workers' Party, security of work is the most important thing. What I'm asking is what's most important to the Prime Minister. What is the message for the employees working in Color Line?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e759	For the 2,500 who work in Color Line, our message is that we make changes to secure their jobs. There will be people who have mortgages, and people with small children, who have lived and settled in an area because they have a job there. The 2,500 are individuals who live with these challenges. Among them, there are certainly people who are approaching the pension limit and who have been afraid of it if the company should not be there. This is an assessment – what happens if we don't make these changes? All individuals are important. The 2500, which is the sum of Color Lines employees in Norway, should also count, but our question is: are we now juggling with a significantly larger number of employees, with all the individual skills that may be parallel to those that have been given the floor in the Newspaper?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e766	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e771	The government's maritime policy seems to the flag producers to a greater extent than he sees Norwegian seafarers. On this issue, the Prime Minister has also pushed the selection of seafaring areas ahead of him. It also makes a contribution to the State budget and makes it possible to save the state with a full-year effect of 100 million. NOK by replacing 685 Norwegian workers with non-EEA workers. So, Color Line has been very clear that they will replace the Norwegian workplaces with those added from the EEA territory, which will make the country pay under the NIS reimbursement scheme. Here I can see only that Storting has received information that does not match reality. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister make sure that one – when the Minister of Industry takes a decision – is based on the right statements, and that the Stortinge gets correct information on the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e780	The starting point is to withdraw from this scheme if there are non-residents employed. But we don't know who gets hired. We can't do anything about that until we know what's actually the starting point. But this has not been about money. This has been about jobs in Norway. After all, it is not certain that the government has not improved the regime related to seafarers. We're now up to over 2 billion. kr in use on this scheme in the State budget. We have made several improvements just to secure the workplaces at sea. So it is not certain that only the shipowners or flags are important, but they are indeed the jobs. That is why we have legislated this arrangement. That is why we have made improvements in it. But then we have a kinky question related to this, and it is: When we have so different framework conditions that we have today between Denmark and Norway, would we lose significantly more jobs on land with the alerts Color Line previously given that they want to move the activity out if they had not received these changes? So we're going to think differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e789	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e795	700 Norwegian seafarers and their families are now experiencing considerable uncertainty. Kim Mathisen is one of the employees who says that his life could be completely overturned if Right gets his will to put him on land. He's a single father of two, and it's the job at sea that's family safety. We have heard that the Prime Minister's argument is that the government allows Color Line to dictate and determine the policy, but people in the country and the Storting need an honest answer. If Erna Solberg dares to see all the 700 seafarers who are in danger of being deprived of the job, in her eyes, what is she going to say to the employees and not least their kids, who are now facing an uncertain future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e802	So here we're really talking about 2,500 jobs that we're afraid of can get out of Norway. It means a lot more children, a lot more individuals, a lot more people like the Workers' Party or other parties have to look into their eyes and say: we don't think your job was that important, so we didn't change this code. That's the choices we're in. It's the choice that could be one of the big dilemmas. I hope that the reasoning and emotional response are also included when the Workers' Party, for example. I am against the idea that private kindergartens should have good framework conditions, and if so, for example. also sees that there are employees and people who can lose the job. All the changes that happen in our society, you can make emotional reactions around. Here we have an experience that we can lose 2,500 jobs – with much more children and individuals, as I think the representative must also look in the eye if that should happen – if the Labour Party's policy had gone through.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e811	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e825	There will be a lot of changes in the set-up list today, and in this respect the President refers to the electronic question list. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Arve Sigmundstad to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed. Question 2, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 3, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Culture, who has been removed. Question 4, from the representative of Åsunn Lyngedal to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been away. Question 5, from the representative Emilie Enger Mehl to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been withdrawn. Question 6, from the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who has been removed. Question 8, from the representative Seher Aydar to the Minister of Industry, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 9, from the representative of Terje Aasland to the Minister for Industry, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative Siv Mossleth to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is directing him. Question 12, from the representative Willfred Nordlund to the Minister for Defence, has been withdrawn. Question 13, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken of the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been away. Question 15, from the representative of Marit Arnstad to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 16, from the representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e864	This question, from the representative Arve Sigmundstad to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e869	‘A core task of the national State is to provide citizens with security in everyday life. Organised crime that is spreading across borders is a challenge. Although we have a good and effective customs service, employees report challenges and lack of staff that go beyond preparedness. What will the Council of State do to improve the manning situation in the customs tariff, thereby ensuring that we have the necessary control of traffic and the flow of goods across our border crossings again?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e876	We appreciate the Workers' Party's involvement around the customs office's border control. It's an engagement we share. The representative assumes that we do not have the necessary border control. The question is, what is necessary control? Norway is a long country, with countless possibilities to cross borders. It's 40 million travelers a year. In addition, there are more than 45 million postal items. As long as we don't want to act like a country we rarely like to compare with, and close the boundaries altogether, it's hard to assess what is "necessary control", but it's possible to say something if control has been better now than it has been in the past. The toll has never made as many seizures as they did in 2017. Strong tax collectors, good intelligence, good analytical work and targeted border presence contributed to over 37 000 seizures. The amount of alcohol seized has not been greater in the last 50 years, and this has never been the case. The number of weapons has increased by 60 pst, and despite large increases in air traffic, the same control coverage has been maintained as before. I think we have better control over the shipments of goods across borders now than before. The results are better than the last working party put in government. I am well pleased with the big bet the government has made when it applies to the customs tariff. We still have no reason to lean back and be content with everything, because smugglers find new methods. However, the budget must also find its own way of giving priority to digitisation, new technologies and other necessary modernisation. I understand that such a situation may be challenging for adding to the floor. However, there is no doubt that the government has strengthened the customs tariff. In its annual report for 2017, the customs director states that the government's strengthening of border control is presumably the main reason why the customs duty has never made as many seizures as in 2017. However, additional efforts on the customs tariff will have to be made towards other good purposes in the State budget. I introduced that it is positive that the Workers' Party is engaged in customs controls. However, I would like to remind you that the Labour Party in its 2018 alternative budget, in spite of proposals for tax and tax relief in several areas, found no room for a single penny more to the customs duty rate than the government itself proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e897	Let me first say that I am pleased that the government agrees with us that as a nation we must have control of the traffic and the flow of goods across the national border. It is essential for social security. Then it's a paradox that both the police and the customs are now calling for caution. Manning in the evening, night, weekends and holidays is so low that it affects social security and the social mission that the customs office has received from the community. Let me give you an example from my neighborhood, Halden and Svinesund. It's the main trajectory into Norway and our gateway to Europe. On Svinesund there may be 30 tollers on the day watch, while on night watch there are often only two to three tollers in the check, and employees even tell of events with just one person on the night watch in the check. None of us believe that such a crew on Svinesund is able to carry out the border control in a good way. Or does the government think this is good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e902	The number of addendums to the border control is about 20 pst. during the term of office of this Government. This is the biggest effort on the customs record and the number of control officers in the border control system in modern times. We have strengthened the customs tariff from 2016 to 2018 with about 400 million. kr. But the government left parts of the individual follow-up of how to mann the stations, and not least how to invest in new technology to reveal this kind of enterprise, to the Customs Directorate. It's pretty important, because the trade and commodity stream across borders doesn't necessarily go in the future as he has. Those who are trying to get things that we shouldn't have into the country, in here anyway, operate differently than they've done before. Therefore, the customs office needs to have time and space to invest in new technology to discover this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e907	Getting time to change is also about getting resources to change. «We are irresponsibly thinly manned, and it affects social security»; says the trust elected to the customs office. Part of the day is the operational capacity of the customs office in border control at a critically low level, they say, trustees in the police. Customs think it has become easier to be smugglers. Customs tell of so low manning that suspicious objects may pass freely across the border, while major cooperative actions of the major criminal actors are prioritised or canceled by budgetary considerations. This obviously isn't good enough, that's not how we're going to get it. The border control is the government's responsibility, and I therefore allow myself to repeat my question, which I have not yet experienced having received any good answer to. In concrete terms, what measures will the government now take to improve the manning situation in the customs tariff and thereby ensure that we have the necessary control of traffic and the flow of goods across the border?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e919	I mean, the conversion that the customs department is in, it has to follow money with. That is why we have strengthened the budget by some 400 million. kr from 2016 to 2018. Work party has proposed no more krone. It means, for all practical purposes, that we have to assume that the Labour Party agrees with the government that the proposed level of vow is what is appropriate for the customs office now. But we've got a lot of these money, over 120 new agents in border control. This means that there are more people added to fit Norway's borders now than before, when the Labour Party was running, and there's a escalation that's happened over time. But now we also need to invest in other tools, for example. on ICT. It is the customs director who makes the assessments of how he organizes his own establishment. I trust that he will do well, simply because the results of the seizure show that they are doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e933	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e941	This question, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Culture, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e946	I would like to ask the following questions, which were originally asked to the Minister of Culture: ‘The government has previously announced that the issue of the future use of the National Gallery of Art exhibitions as part of the National Museum needs to be resolved in 2018, and the new Jeløia Government Platform has given positive signals on this. The Council of State has been personally involved in the matter for a long time and has put it up for action in order for the gallery to live on. What is the status of the plans for future use of the National Gallery, and when will this be presented to the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e955	It is true that the Jeloya platform has a separate point about the National Gallery building. It is formulated in such a way that the government will maintain ‘The National Gallery as an art gallery related to the National Museum, provided that there is no excessive cost of rehabilitation.’;» The Ministry of Culture's budget for 2018 sets out the latest studies on Tullinløkka. The so-called KS1 report recommends a comprehensive and costly rehabilitation of the National Gallery building. However, it does not facilitate the launching of further costly projects in the capital in the coming years. It is important to complete those already in implementation. We have to recognize that we can't take all the lift at the same time. We also need to recognise that cultural facilities, including exhibition facilities, can have different standards and yet are suitable for good audience meetings. The national gallery serves as an exhibition venue today. You can imagine that it can also work for some time to come without making major changes to the construction. How the building is to be used within its present standard must be determined by the National Museum. They are the ones who curate and can professionally assess what these premises are suitable for in their business. The National Museum is in favour of signals given on the Jeløya platform, and the Minister of Culture assumes that plans will gradually come from there. The National Gallery is an important building in Norwegian cultural history and in the history of Oslo. The building must also be managed in the light of this. The Jelaua platform determines that the National Gallery should be a place where the National Museum can disseminate art. However, the concrete use and management of the building must come back as the opening of the National Museum of the West Railway approaches.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e975	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is a reservation in the wording read by the Council of State, where it is called ‘provided that there is no excessive cost of rehabilitation’. It is the discussion that has been going on for years, where there have been reports that have been very controversial, about how much that really needs to be done with the building in order to be able to use it further. I perceive the answer from the Council of State so that it is possible to use the building for some years to come without the huge investments that have been mentioned in the past. I would like to hear from the Council of State what the government is adding to ‘rehabilitation costs’. Is high costs a continuous maintenance necessary for the use of the building a good part of the years ahead, or is large costs a total conversion in the billions class? There's a lot of difference if you count large costs like $10 million. kr or 10 brd. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e984	I'm assuming that the Jeleya platform is preparing two things. One — and most importantly — is what has been a battle for many years and has been a discussion in Oslo, what today’s National Gallery will be used for in the years to come. What we find in the platform is that the National Gallery should be used for the exhibition of art and within the framework of the National Museum. That part is clear. The second part is that even if it is within the National Museum, it is not added to starting some major upgrade of the building in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e989	I thank you for that clarification. It's a very important observation that the government makes, that a person wants to preserve it as an art gallery associated with the National Museum, because that means that the plans for renting for other purposes are now excluded from the government. So I think that's a very positive signal. The second Council of State answers that the National Museum must determine its use is also important, at least in view of the actions that have been carried out by me and former representatives of the Grand Council and now by the State Council of Skei Grande to provide the National Gallery with exhibitions that have great appeal value in the future. I think that's an important job. It has previously been announced by the government that it needs to be clarified by the end of 2018. So I think it's an important work for the government to keep an eye on, when you've engaged as clearly in continued use as an art gallery.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e998	The national gallery as it now lies is a unique building. It's been lying there since 1882, probably on the ground, and it's one of the really classic buildings both for the country and in Oslo. At the same time, we are implementing the largest investment in cultural buildings that has been made in Norway for a very long time, with the new National Museum to be completed in 2020. After all, it is the National Museum that finally has to decide how their collections are to be distributed, but I am sure that the national museum also understands the importance of the building that is now to be set up, the initial investment – the huge investment – while maintaining the National Gallery as an attractive place for the exhibition of art.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1006	This question, from the representative of Åsunn Lyngedal to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1011	‘The government has increased the charges on the smaller aeroplanes operating on the short-haul network by 71 per cent. This affects commercial routes in the district and has made many of these unprofitable. The government's air passenger fee does not distinguish between the longer and shorter trips. The budget agreement states: ‘The government asks the government to assess the conversion of the current passenger charge to give it an environmental profile, such as differentiation after the length of the flight.’ When will such an assessment be submitted to the Stortinget?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1018	The air passenger charges were signed as part of the budget agreement for 2016 when he was negotiated in Stortinget, and seen in action on 1 June 2016. The tax is currently mainly fiscal, but can also have an environmental impact by reducing the demand for air travel. Transit and transfer passengers are exempt from charges. The exemption for transit and transfer passengers has been appealed against to ESA as possible State aid, but ESA has concluded that the exemption does not involve State aid. In the call decision referred to, Stortinget has asked the government to assess the conversion of the air passenger charge in order to provide a clearer environmental profile. The Ministry is now considering different alternative designs of the fee. Among other things, a differentiation of the fee is considered after the length of the flight. Such a differentiation has been made, inter alia: in the German passenger charge and in the passenger charge in Sweden, which was introduced on 1 April 2018. In the assessment that the Ministry is currently carrying out, it is also necessary to assess the relationship with the EEA Agreement. The Size request decision has no time limit set for when to complete the assessment. It is natural that the assessment is presented in the context of the annual budgets, and at the earliest in the context of the 2019 budget. Let me add, however, that the Labour Party has also financed its budget with the air passenger fee. There is no obstacle to looking at various devices of her. It is important to remember that the number of FOT routes in the districts has been purchased in exactly the same way and with exactly the same leadership as under previous governments. I also see that many places in the districts show that the commercial routes are profitable and that an important flight offer is still being maintained. There are several flights in Norway, and there are several passengers travelling. But they travel on more fuller planes, and it's always good that we actually manage to fill the planes we're going to fly, both for economic and environmental reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1029	Thank you very much for your answer. The background to my question was the problems the Narvik region had when our connection to the county capital of Bodø was to be commercially based. We had three Fot routes every day, but we lost them a year ago, and then we had to deal with the commercial use of Evenes. During the same period as several passengers, the route became unremunerated due to the air passenger charge. That is why we have been concerned about this and we understand that there are a lot of routes in the districts, and that is the conversion of the flight fee and the air passenger charge that matters. More charges are, of course, the same for all aircraft. The minimum fees are then the highest per seat and ticket, but there are some other charges than air passenger charges. The most important thing for the environment is that the government has set the same fee regardless of the length of the flight. Both Sweden, England and Germany have differentiated by length, and I am happy that it is assessed in the department today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1040	I did not experience any questions at the end, but I will try to answer them anyway. One of the assessments we are now making is whether the devices should be adapted to the length of the journey, as some other countries around us have done, as I said in my first answer. But it is also important to bear in mind that the routes that we from the government actually affect are when purchasing FOT routes. For commercial flights, it is that there have been fewer flights in some areas, making it possible to provide a better supply of other places, including in the districts, because the capacity has shifted your demand even higher. This means that air supply, which is an important part of collective provision in many districts, also needs to be adjusted to demand. But we're going to do what Stortinget has asked for, and we're going to report back to Stortinget in connection with the budget, early 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1047	Thank you. Yes, that's right, in my part of the country the flight routes are part of the collective offer, and we've seen that this government has cut some of the government's service purchases, and then it's very important that we get a basis for commercial operations on these. It would also be interesting to hear if the government makes some assessments of the environmental impact of the air passenger charge we have today, and that it is not differentiated according to the length of the flight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1052	Passenger charges are initially taxed on the ground. This means that from Stortinget's side, she is initially not set up as an environmental tax. That's the assessment we're now asked to make, and it obviously involves different assessments relating to the environmental benefit of her. The reason why the Storting has introduced the fee, on its own proposals and not on government proposals, is that it is initially fiscal. However, it may have environmental aspects, such as: by the fact that, as a matter of fact, they are flying, they contain a higher number of passengers per flight. There are, of course, some challenges in some regions, and, therefore, this government is in the process of building up infrastructure in many areas. Both in aviation, on roads and in Norwegian railways, it is built as never before. We've created the most ambitious national transport plan of the time, and we're going to make sure that we have good supplies for travelers in Norway, no matter what kind of travel they are, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1064	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1072	This question, from the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1077	«NRK.no writes on 11 April that lawyer Jon Christian Flöjsvik Nordrum, who works at the University of Oslo and has written a doctorate on the investigation manual, is clear that the proposal for new county names should have been sent to the hearing. "By not doing so, the government breaks the dispensation directive, and that's the same thing as breaking the promise," he says, according to NRK.no. Why does the government not take the investigation instructions seriously and send the matter to the hearing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1084	On behalf of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, I would like to reply that we can ensure that the government takes the investigation instructions seriously. However, following the investigation instructions, general consultation is not an absolute rule. The instructions open to general consultation, inter alia: may be omitted if the hearing has to be considered as manifestly unnecessary. There has been a long and open process of name choices in all the counties concerned. The Ministry has received many names and good reasons both from individuals and from other agencies. Where there are proposals for new county names, the names have been submitted to the Language Council and the Sami names have been submitted to the Sametinget. In addition, the councils have met with the relevant county councils and also answered questions about the matter in Stortinget. There are rare cases that get so much attention and pressure in general. In addition, the Ministry has given decisive attention to the consideration of municipal autonomy. Once there has been agreement on the names of the county councils to be merged, this has been crucial for the government. Furthermore, the county councils, which are in the process of merging, wanted the new names to be adopted as soon as possible. I therefore believe that general consultation is clearly unnecessary, and that the government's handling of the bill is therefore in line with the investigation manual.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1095	It is quite incredible to hear State Council Höie justify the lack of consultation that this is obviously unnecessary. There are few things that are more important than names. We have our own local name law that just has to regulate how to give new names and how to regulate the use of name, because it's important, it creates identity, and it creates culture. The Ministry of Health and Welfare of the Council of State has sent five cases to the hearing after Christmas. The Ministry of Local Affairs has sent three cases to the hearing after Christmas, cases that large sections of the population have barely heard of. But this is a matter that engages many, and that's exactly why it's important to get input from the many, for example. the municipalities of the counties concerned. Then my question is to the Westerner Bent Höie, who is not going to live in the new county: Is the name «Westland» sent to the Council of Languages? For the purposes of reading the proposition, it does not seem that the Language Council has been asked for the new name, ‘Westland’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1100	Firstly, the representative must not read my answer as if the government considered name changes in general to be a situation where there is obviously no need for consultation. However, the reason why there has been no consultation in this specific case is the process to which the representative himself referred. This is a matter that has just created a lot of commitment, which has been dealt with in filling around the country, where meetings between the Council of State and interested parties have been held, and which has been a great deal of attention around. That is why there was no need for consultation in this case, simply because the process itself has given people and the parties involved the opportunity to believe something about this. The Government has placed the decisive emphasis on the state of affairs of the affected states, the recommendations of elected representatives on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1105	The government has been overrun by elected representatives in terms of the merger of counties, for it has been used for coercion. This matter has been dealt with very quickly. There has been no consultation in Norwegian municipalities – what they think about the new county names. I also notice that Council of State Höie is unable to defend the name ‘Westland’, because it is an unwise name. He does not clarify whether the Language Council has been allowed to comment on the new name. With regard to the Inland, the Language Council was very clear that they could not recommend the name at all, because it is a locational description. They meant, for example: Hedmark and Uppland would be a better name than the Inland, because they are inland in many places in the country, both in Norway, and, as they write in their own opinion, they are mentioned, for example. also Greenland ice as a hinterland. This is why it is a very bad place name after the place name legislation that we have in Norway. Why does the government think it is unwise to spend some time asking the municipalities and residents of the country what is meant by the new ‘Inland’, if you think that Hedmark and Uppland would be a better name, as it has been a tradition for?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1110	Firstly, I have no problem with Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane, who have joined forces, being called ‘Westland’. I'm a Westerner, but I live in Rogaland. Rogaland himself chose not to be part of the new region. Of course, Rogaland is part of the West, but we are not part of the Western region. Inland is the name that the states themselves have emphasized that a wish. Nor is there any doubt that the Inland has become the common concept used for these two countries over a long period of time. I myself am responsible for Health South-East, which has a health company called Health Inland, and it is a concept that both the people elected and the people of the Inland just use about these two states.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1120	‘The Greens will praise the government for stating that drug users need help, not punishment. The Greens think it is high time that we examined different models for the regulated movement of light drugs, which are currently illegal. On the other hand, the government stresses that the use and possession of drugs should still be illegal. This has been criticised by several people. Why does the Council of State not want the sample to also consider legal placing on the market as a possible solution?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1127	There is now a broad political and professional consensus to change the approach to the use of illicit drugs from punishment to health care. However, this consensus does not include legalisation and regulated trafficking of illicit drugs, regardless of the extent of the potential for harm. It is not a political majority — it is far from a political majority — to legalise and regulate the trafficking of illicit drugs. Therefore, there is no basis for extending the mandate of the Committee on Drug Reform to assess the licit placing on the market of such drugs. I am aware that some countries, for example. Canada and some countries in the United States have legalised and regulated different cannabis products for both sale and production on a smaller scale for their own use. As part of a knowledge-based drug policy, I will, of course, follow this international development, on the consequences and experiences that arise in these areas. Norway is and will continue to be a voice in international forums and contexts for a knowledge-based approach and policy-making in this area. Norway has relatively modest use of illicit drugs in general compared with many other countries, and it is desirable that this should continue. I believe that legalisation is not a proper approach to the drug challenge today. I believe that the ban, also in line with our restrictive alcohol policy, is a clear signal of the dangers associated with the use of illicit drugs, and this is particularly important for young and vulnerable groups. From a public health perspective, overall drug use represents the main challenges, an overall drug use consisting of both illicit drugs and legal drugs, and there is, as it were, no basis for extending the mandate of the sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1138	Almost everyone who lives in Norway is on almost a continuous basis, whether it's on caffeine, nicotine, alcohol, hashish, MDMA or pomegranate, to name a few. And for those who use legal and illegal drugs, this is an individual choice. The Council of State has confirmed that the government does not want technical advice on regulated trafficking in the context of the drug reform, and a large proportion of drugs will still be illegal even after the reform. But instead of punishment, you need help. That's good, but does this mean that the Council of State thinks it's basically okay for people to rush into illegal drugs as long as there's no abuse and addiction?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1145	I am of the clear opinion that the legal ban on illicit drugs contributes to a lower consumption of these drugs, just as having strict regulation of the legal substance alcohol contributes to lower consumption. And it's the overall drug policy that matters to public health, because it's the total drug use that's the biggest public health challenge. We will now gain experience from countries that we can compare with, such as the United States and Japan. Canada, when they implement this on a large scale with regulation and sale of one of the illicit drugs. It will provide us with experience as to whether it will lead to increased consumption. We see in many places that illicit drugs do not replace legal drugs but come to the top of legal drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1152	Then I hear the Council of State says it's okay to use illegal drugs as long as they don't go up. Norway is one of the countries in Europe with the worst overdose statistics. In 2016, 282 people died. That's why it's good that the government now wants a rapprochement. At the same time, it is tragic that drug addicts in Norway still have to wait for even more years for this vital reform. We in the Greens have therefore tabled a number of proposals for decisions that we believe the Storting could already do this spring, but for which we are not now expected to receive support. Are the Councils of State confident that action will be taken to ensure that the number of overdose deaths in Norway will decrease over the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1159	I must first clarify that the representative's interpretation of my answer is not correct. I didn't say it was okay to use illegal drugs. This is a major, important reform which also involves significant legislative work. It is not work that can be done through representation proposals in Stortinget, it requires a serious investigation and preparation. That is why the sample has also been given the time they have been given, which is basically a little button, but which has just been set because we believe there is a need to adopt this reform during this enlargement period. So it's not that all the other work on the drug field is put on hold as a result of this. We are in the middle of a significant escalation plan for the drug field. We are working on changes related to the injection room regulation. The government has said that we want to start trials with heroin-assisted treatment. We are reviewing the guidelines related to medically assisted rehabilitation. So I can assure the representative that we're going to be fully committed to other changes in the drug field that are important to those addicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1196	These questions have to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Councils have gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1204	This question, from the representative Siv Mossleth to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1209	‘Derogations from wild game are important preparedness to ensure grazing and animal welfare in grazing animals. The take-off of helicopters by helicopter is a necessary part of the take-off gear when a difficult and inflexible regulatory framework prevents the effective take-off of wild game. Helicopter take-offs require good conditions and are often such that good conditions for helicopter take-offs in areas with high damage potential are not used because the capacity of personnel and materials is too low. What will the Council of State do to increase helicopter preparedness in the event of take-off of wild game?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1216	We have a high preparedness for harvesting predators that do or are expected to do great damage in priority pastures, both before and during the grazing season. I show you, among other things: to the withdrawal of a male bear from the State Department of Natural Sciences in Meråker on 16 April of this year. I believe we have succeeded in reducing the loss of grazing animals in Norway. Since 2013, the loss of sheep to predatory game is almost halved and the loss of tamrein decreased by a quarter, while the number of sheep on the outback has increased. At the same time, we have a situation where the population of gaupe, yerv and bear is below the stock targets. For you, this applies after hi-up. The royal eagle population is well within the stock target, while the wolf population is above the stock target. Furthermore, the size of the predatory game agreement has decided that quota hunting and licensing, carried out by common hunters, should be the main instrument of stock regulation. The reason is a desire to make hunting and killing of predatory game as much as possible equal hunting for other game species. This is an important back ground for the discussion on how to carry out take-out of predatory game and to what extent. The use of helicopters is considered by many to be a controversial measure. In addition, it's expensive. This, together with the stock situation and Storting’s leadership on generalisation of hunting and killing, suggests that the use of helicopters should be restricted. In several cases, however, helicopters are considered suitable to prevent damage to sheep and domestic animals. However, this depends on, for example: the time of the year, weather and traffic conditions and whether it is in forest or mountain. In line with the Robbery Agreement, the Environment Directorate has the power to decide on exceptional withdrawals. It is the State's nature oversight that carries out such a task. The instruments to be used for the killing test must be assessed in detail in the individual situation, and I believe that the Directorate for the Environment is the best way to carry out these professional assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1235	I talked to a reindeer from Børgefjell reindeer district. He said, the administration mocks us, they don't take us seriously, they have to clean up what they've messed up to. I think that if he had seen the answer from the Council of State, where the Council of State says we have a high level of preparedness, he would have come to take it as a direct mockery. They now experience a very great hunting of reindeer on pasture. Jerven troubles the animals very much, even though they have gathered them for feeding, and they spend time on bureaucracy instead of guessing. Efficiency and simplification are the mantra of this government. What can the Council of State do to streamline and simplify helicopter take-offs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1244	I believe that we have a high level of preparedness to make assessments of whether there is now a need to extract from injury traps, whether they are predators that constitute a potential for damage. Then there is a high level of readiness to accept applications, both from the Environment Directorate and from the local authorities, as well as the fact that the Environment Directorate can, of course, also launch its own actions to provide exceptional support. This is done efficiently. I also believe that effective measures are being taken to make the exceptional withdrawals, and the use of helicopters is one of them. However, when it comes to assessing and deciding whether or not to do so on a case-by-case basis, the Directorate for the Environment, together with the State's Natural Supervision, is the appropriate body.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1249	I think the stock targets are higher than the preparedness for withdrawals. We have one helicopter that is both in Trøndelag and in Nordland, and the helicopter has been on mission elsewhere than it should have been. And of course, we want most of the predators to be taken out by license and quota traps. But when this does not happen and you see that the hunt begins to go badly, can the Council of State agree that we will open up exceptional measures before 15 February, so that it can be shot sharp rather than anaesthetic? The reason why I ask you that is because it's more effective to shoot sharp.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1256	Now we're effective with respect to withdrawals. Last year, almost one third of the population of you guys were either shot at licensing, hit, or taken out on extraordinary withdrawals. One has similar sizes for other predators. I believe that we have an effective system today to be able to make decisions, both at the Directorate for the Environment and at the House of Commons. There are no legislative changes as such in order to make this more effective; this must be based on the individual decisions and the potential for damage to predators, and then the Environment Directorate and the SNO have to decide whether to make exceptional withdrawals and, of course, on the means to be used, and then they have the full opportunity to use helicopters, if that is what they think is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1272	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1280	This question, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1285	‘In the context of the applications for power build-up in the Baltic and Gengedal rivers, the natural and open-air organisations launched new mappings of the natural values, as they were deficient from the concession seekers. The new surveys confirmed this, as the NVE report 102-2015 also shows. What will the Council of State do to ensure that good enough monitoring of nature is carried out before concession issues are decided, so that it is not dependent on non-governmental organisations ensuring this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1293	Let me thank you for the question. It is important that you have a good factual basis before making decisions. Whether the decision becomes positive or negative — a little dependent on the eyes that see — we need to know the consequences of the decisions that you make. It is the Minister for Climate and Environment who is responsible for the regulatory framework for impact assessments. The NVE and the OED are the competent authorities for impact assessments in the watercourse and energy sectors and assess on a case-by-case basis whether KU legislation has been followed in that area. If the knowledge base of a concession application is too poor, which can be revealed after a hearing, the NVE may impose additional studies. Consequently, the NVE is the determining factor in the scope of the studies that are necessary, not the applicant and an external organisation either. In 2015, an evaluation of bioassays was carried out by the NVE in the case of small-scale applications, focusing in particular on valuable habitat types and red-listed low and moss. The report has been carried out by experts on moose and low, who examined about 20 small power plants. Now there is no requirement for a full impact assessment for small-scale power plants, but it is still illustrative that in that review the specialist experts found in several cases more red-listed species than the technical reports that followed the application. It shows how important it is for the NVE to have competence in the field of biodiversity and to ensure that sufficient information is provided so that the decision-making basis is good before decision-making is taken. This is why NVE is now cooperating, among other things. with the Directorate for the Environment to strengthen the guidance material for this type of study. The Ministry has followed up on removing the indicative cost range between NOK 20 000 and NOK 50000 for bioassays in small-scale fuels. I would like to remind you that about half of the small energy cases are being rejected, often because of biodiversity considerations. Larger hydropower cases, such as Øystese and Grangedal, require a more thorough study of environmental impacts than in small-scale power stations. These are issues that are KU-compulsory. In both cases, natural values were identified as part of the KU reports, and both red-listed and valuable habitat types were identified. The NVE and the OED are responsible for assessing whether the investigations have been carried out in line with today's KU legislation, and I believe that the administration is best placed to ensure that good screenings are carried out before concession issues are decided, by following the KU regulation's system on what is a good enough knowledge base.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1309	I have noticed that some organisations have carried out their own natural studies in addition to what is being done by the applicant. This isn't the best way to go. The KU authorities shall consider imposing additional studies where the knowledge base is too poor and it is the responsibility of the applicant to finance studies that are required. It is important that organisations that consider that there are gaps in the knowledge base express it in their consultation input, for decisions are based on both investigations and on broad consultation rounds. If other parties carry out their own investigations, the findings will be included in the concession proceedings, for the concession authorities to base all available information upon the adoption of a decision. I would like to remind you that the government is now following up the Storting's request to strengthen the work of nature conservation and the establishment of an ecological base map.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1312	Thanks for the answer. In the two cases that I mentioned in my question, the Østese- und Gengedalsvastre, additional investigations were requested by the organisations and that the NVE should require it. NVE did not require it, so these ad hoc modules were launched themselves. In retrospect, the NVE has found that these ad hoc modules made by the organisations were so valuable that they have instructed the developers to take the costs of these investigations. I would like to ask the Council of State if, on the basis of this, he sees the need to actually tighten the law – and not just follow it, as I experience from his reply – but sharpen it, so that these requirements are made in good time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1319	In principle, it is not always the law that needs to be amended, although one sees that one could implement individual matters in a different way. Often it is a matter of being able to take over and assess whether the facts on the table are sufficient. A modified law would not necessarily make the assessments different. That is why I think that the work I have mentioned, which is being done by the NVE, among other things. towards the Environment Directorate, is the best way to approach this in the first round. Making sure that we have good professionals who are able to make good judgements about whether you have sufficient information to make a knowledge-based decision, or whether there are likely gaps in the knowledge base that make you need to do more is probably the most important thing you can do here. I would also like to remind you that precisely these two projects will be the subject of a separate debate in the Stortinget as early as tomorrow, and it would be more natural to have a bit of a deep-seated discussion with the Council of State, which is in the debate then.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1326	I don't have any further questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1334	‘The blue-blue government authorised a few years ago to enjoy snowmobile snowmobile snowmobiles in forests and mountains across the advice of an overall environmental and outdoor movement in Norway. A new report from the Transport Economic Institute now shows that 25 percent of snowmobiles in Norway are running where it is not allowed. In winter, many cases of illegal driving have been detected, affecting both wildlife and traditional outdoors. What measures will the government take to limit the large amount of illegal motor travel in our nature?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1341	There is no doubt that there are some illegal snowmobiles in this country. This is unfortunate, both because it increases the risk of accidents and because it increases the load on outdoors and wildlife. In the context of the introduction of access to the establishment of snowmobile loops in 2015, the appropriations for supervision and control of motor travel were increased. In line with expectations and budget allocations, the State’s NSP, SNO, has increased the control effort in respect of outland motor travel in recent years. In order to achieve maximum overall control and to make good use of public resources, the SNO has also increasingly cooperated with the police. This winter, joint actions have been carried out with the police in all districts, including joint patrols using helicopters or small aircraft. Helicopters and aeroplanes have been used for reconnaissance for simultaneous or subsequent ground control, but have also, in some cases where the police led the operation, been used for active control. Winter 2018 has been snowy with good driving conditions in most of the country. In some areas, many tracks have been recorded after illegal driving, substantially more than in the previous winter. The snowy winter is probably an important reason for this. In joint action, the police will often follow up on criminal proceedings. So far, SNO’s reports have not significantly increased from last year’s figures, which is also due to the fact that in practice it is often difficult to catch illegal people, including those who drive illegally. Because, of course, people run away. Following the admission of the SNO in 2015 to impose an infringement fee for an infringement of the Motor Trade Act, some of the cases previously notified will now be followed by the imposition of such a fee. The SNO uses the media actively, both to disseminate regulatory information and after-action information. No systematic assessment has been carried out in the case of unlawful driving related to snowmobile loops established after the amendment in 2015. We therefore have no reason to say anything about the extent of illegal driving associated with these loops. The impression is somewhat mixed. In some municipalities with new loops, there is little illegal driving, while in other municipalities there is a lot of driving to and from the loops and illegal driving on the ground, starting from the loop network. Following a mission from the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the Environment Directorate launched an evaluation in 2016 of the impact of the new rules on snowmobiles for pleasure driving, including the number of municipalities with loops, the extent of loops, the development of snowmobile use and the impact on outdoor life. The mission was given to NINA, in cooperation with Menon, and is a 5-year follow-up evaluation aimed at gaining knowledge of the impact of the law change on outdoor life, natural diversity and local business. Part of the evaluation is also to look at developments in snowmobile use, including both legal and illegal driving. The final evaluation report shall be available at the end of 2020. I assume that the knowledge we will gain from the evaluation will provide us with a good basis for assessing the need for regulatory adjustments. Knowledge will also be valuable when designing the future policy in the field of motor travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1358	It has not been long since Easter, and it is a fact that the number of snowmobiles in Norway is also increasing. In 2008, there were more than 60,000, in 2017, it is estimated to be 85,000, i.e. almost 50 pst. increase. Many scooters follow the rules, but just in Easter many snowmobile noises were out on the ski clock and on the cabin. There is reason to believe that more and more scooters plus pleasure driving permits will provide even more illegal driving, even in areas that have been free areas for outdoors and wildlife. Can the government confirm that action will be taken against the illegal increase in off-road driving?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1365	We will continue to strengthen the SNO, which must do this work. There has been more news coverage during the winter with actions carried out with the police. It has to be continued. And then you have the opportunity to simplify this by charging a fee. And then I think we have to wait for the evaluation that I referred to, that is to come forward by 2020, and look at the impact of the change in the law and what we can learn from the experiences of the different municipalities – as I said, the impression from different municipalities is quite different; in some places it's more illegal driving, and elsewhere it's not – and then make decisions based on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1370	It's always an evaluation or a strategy you can wait for. However, it is no secret that we in the Greens/Greens/EFA want to reverse the legal amendment itself, in line with that 81 pst. the population wants better control of this. We see that many municipalities are now working to build even more scooter loops. The consequence will be that with multiple scooter loops, more people invest in scooters. We can therefore expect the illegal driving to increase. If no action is taken while waiting for the evaluation, the situation will be worse and harder to reverse, because people have started using the scooter they just bought. Does the Government share the concerns of the Greens about this rather rapidly growing development?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1377	I have been sitting in the Stortingen for the Left and voted against the amendment of the law. But, of course, when the law changes there, municipalities are allowed to use it, within the limits and limits contained in the law, in terms of where you can build scooter loops. The extent to which the increase in the number of scooters is a result of the change in the law is also difficult to say. There's also been an increase in the past. I think we have to focus on the fact that the laws and rules we have made have to be followed – that when the municipalities make their decisions, they have to follow the framework that is there. And then we have to have an effort against illegal driving to limit it as much as possible – learn and then make new decisions. I am in favour of evaluations, and I am too good a strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1400	These questions have to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1408	This question is a little bit in the same street, because it's about the tasks of the police. ‘In the newspaper Gudbrandsdølen Dagningen on 12 April, trust elected in the Inland Police District, Finn Hvalbye, an entry on the critical lack of personnel in the police district. With more aberrations in the last time the police have to ask the audience to deal with themselves, for example at the Grotli Højjellshotell in Easter, there is little evidence that more police are close to people. When my Council of State says one can count on getting a crew in line with the targets set by the Stortinget on 2 policemen per year. 1000 inhabitants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1417	Initially, I would like to stress that the target of two police service women or men per 1000 inhabitants is a target for police coverage at national level. We are on track to achieve this goal, and by the fourth quarter of 2017, the police coverage is 1.91. I would also like to stress that in 2018 it has been granted over 18 billion. kr to the police, an increase of nearly 3.57 billion. kr since this government joined in 2013. Most of this increase is in the police’s ordinary operating budget. The 2018 budget included an increase in the police operating budget of 100 million. where priority is to be given to police districts. In addition, 295 million are continued. kr in increased operating resources from 2017. Furthermore, since 2013, the government has increased the staffing of police districts by more than 1,300 paid annual works, about 1,200 of which are police annuals. Overall, the police and officers' seat has increased by more than 2,300 paid annual work since 2013. This shows that police districts are given priority and that the security and security of the population must be ensured. I would like to make it clear that it is the responsibility of each police officer to ensure that the resources in the police district are used efficiently and appropriately. In the case of the Inland Police District, this is a medium-sized police district measured in terms of population, but among the largest police districts in terms of area. It requires good planning and strategic fleet management of police resources. In the context of the implementation of the close police reform, new operational centres are established in all police districts. So far, 10 out of 12 central units have been put into operation, among others. Inland police district. The new Operation Centre allows for efficient disposal and fleet management of resources throughout the police district, so that there is an appropriate allocation and allocation of police resources at all times. However, it is necessary for the police to give priority to their ongoing capacity to follow-up, which in some cases means that it takes time before a patrol is on-site. In exceptional events and events where life is directly threatened, or where for other reasons immediate police response is required, response time is required. It is gratifying to see that the Inland police districts mainly meet the response time requirements. I would also like to stress that the Inland Police District, since the government's accession, has received 81 more police posts, 50 of which have arrived since the beginning of 2017. In 2018, a further 24 police posts have been allocated to the Inland Police District, which will help to strengthen police presence in line with the objective of the close police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1436	I thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, it's not capacity, but economy that limits the presence of the police. Last week there have been two police actions on the Toten, where police helicopters are also used, and that is positive. The last event was night to Monday, where there was a break-in in a warehouse on Eina. But for people in Uppland, this appears to be special – and unfair. When demolition works take place in central parts of the country, there is no way of using resources, but not when events take place at the other end of the county, as in the example of Grotli Højjellshotell, where the hotel manager was told from the operating centre that the police were so far away that the hotel itself had to arrange with the guests who were threatening the staff and the other guests. So we're about to have an A and B community, where in central parts of the country they get full expression, while in the district they have to arrange for themselves. Is this a development that I believe is right and in line with the intention of the near-police reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1443	I would like to emphasise once again that the near-police reform has led to the allocation of considerable resources to Oppland and the Inland Police Districts, including in the form of police year-on-year work. Then there is a demand for response time, and the Inland police districts mainly meet the requirements. On one of the requirements, for the meridian in agglomerations with less than 2000 people, the response time is one minute too long – one minute too long! Otherwise you satisfy the requirements that are set. Then there is reason to remember one thing, and that is that the police are not a standby seat where everyone is sitting waiting for the phone to call. They're constantly out there doing missions all over the area. This means that situations can arise where you are elsewhere, have other assignments, and where the response time can be longer. It doesn't just apply to the Inland police district, but it can be like this all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1452	Inland police districts today have a police coverage of 1.47 per 1 000 inhabitants. Inland police districts have, as the Minister says, been allocated 41 new posts in 2017. Of these, about half were still available on 1 January 2018. Inland police districts have been given 24 new positions, as the minister also says. The Directorate of Police has allocated these posts pro rata, i.e. joint responsibility for establishing them. This is a job growth that is not in line with the other police districts and will result in the Inland police districts becoming the worst police coverage if no other and fairer distribution model is established. There is an urgent need to increase resources now to be able to alert everyone, no matter where they live. How will the Council of State ensure a better distribution of police resources, providing security and confidence that people wherever they live will be able to receive police assistance whenever they need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1459	We're in the right direction to achieve what's the goal, which is to be achieved by 2020. This means that more police resources will continue to be allocated, more jobs in Norway. There has never been a requirement for each district to have exactly the same allocation, and this is, of course, also due to the fact that the crime scene is different. This cannot be the case when you are sitting and planning at national level, starting with the map and trying to plot the different positions here and there. It's important to start from crime and in reality and rule after it. It is a responsibility of the Police Directorate at national level, which is entrusted to the police chief in each district. The most important thing is to fight crime, not to have job homes that are in places where there is less need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1466	Case No. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-18.ana.ud432e1480	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
