ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e120	The representative, Kari Henriksen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For West Agder County: Bene density Limmesand Hellestøl For Akershus County: Oddvar Igland For the Province of Buskerud: Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy For Oslo: Mats Churchbirkeland There is a communication from the Workers' Party and the Left, respectively, that the allowances granted, for representatives Cecilie Myrseth and Carl-Erik Grimstad, have been withdrawn. – These messages are taken into account. Four permit applications are available: by the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Svein Roald Hansen on Tuesday 20 March and by the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Silje Hemdal on Tuesday 20 March – both to attend the Trade Meeting of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee in London by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative of Hanne Dyveke Sweets from 20 March onwards and until further notice by Mr Frølich, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Hordaland County: Sigurd Hille and Laila Reiertsen For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen For Eastfold County: Arve Sigmundstad
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e211	Sigurd Hille, Laila Reiertsen, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen and Arve Sigmundstad are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e224	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e246	The President shall first give the floor to Prime Minister Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e251	State Council Sylvi Listhaug informed me late last night that she herself wanted to resign as Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration in the light of the situation that has arisen in Stortinget. I can therefore inform the Storting that there will be an extraordinary Council of State at the Castle today at noon. That's where Sylvi Listhaug will go as a state council. With this, I hope we can put a heated discussion behind us and come back to another and more constructive debate environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e258	The President will now give the floor to the parliamentary leaders who wish to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e263	Today, Minister of Justice and Security Sylvi Listhaug has resigned as State Council. It was right and necessary. The Minister of Justice and Preparedness no longer had the confidence of the majority of the population, and then you have to resign as the Council of State. The motion of censure we were going to have before us today was well justified. Sylvi Listhaug has documented that today. She has shown that she still does not understand why the original Facebook post of March 9 was so speculative and potentially dangerous. She today shows that the excuse she gave here in the hall Thursday last week, did not stack deep. I would like to say that this matter began – unusually enough for a parliamentary situation – with an article on Facebook that should never have been published. It's our freedom to publish on Facebook, to express ourselves from there, whether we're magnificence representatives or state councils, but the matter is profoundly about much more. The majority of the population has now said about it, is that we no longer accept the double communications we have seen from government councils in the Progress Party for a long time. We have made it clear that a Minister of Justice – of all people – cannot gush under hatred and conspiracy theories with his speeches. A minister of justice, perhaps more than other state councils, must act in concert and inclusive. It has to do with the great responsibility of the Minister of Justice also for vulnerable people who are taken particularly by the opinions of officials. We have pointed out that overstatements and suspicions on social media will not destroy the political debate in this country. A lot of the stuff that came after the post, there's a reason to take a break from it, but it started with the post, the imagery, and the state council's choice. This is not the way we want it in Norway, and it has now been said clearly by the majority of the population. I believe the Prime Minister was too late to understand how speculative, innocuous and potentially dangerous the Minister's posts on Facebook were. She was unable to get her own state council to complain properly, erase and clean up. She did not understand the seriousness of the matter. It was the Stortinget, not the Prime Minister, who finally had to take responsibility and say that the Minister of Justice and Defence did not have confidence: enough was enough. It's weak leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e276	I started this ageing period by saying that this assembly has the same thing in common that we all want to make Norway even better. I encouraged the Stortinget not to mistrust the intentions of others, and that we work together to solve the major challenges facing Norway. A few months later, I am responding to this call. We should believe in each other's good intentions and contribute to substantive, informed and constructive debates. We must stand up to hate talk, violence and extremism. No one in this big business wants it. The size is the most important democratic institution in Norway. What's said here, on this pulpit, matters. Therefore, the government felt that it was important to follow the call from an overall opposition to complain about Sylvi Listhaug's posts on Facebook. I share the assessment Knut Arild Hareide had in a newspaper, where he said: ‘Then there was an unreserved apology that came from Sylvi Listhaug at the end, and it matters precisely because it came from the pulpit of the Stortinge.’ I notice that some people want to interpret this excuse. I think we're on wild roads when we interpret the intentions of what people say. This pulpit means something. When someone apologizes here, it means something. Sylvi Listhaug and the responsible state council Jan Tore Sanner have already apologized unreservedly. Now Sylvi Listhaug has resigned, a decision that she herself has announced to the Prime Minister. That's a decision we respect in the Right. Then I hope we get a change of words that is characterized by trust in each other and mutual respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e290	There is a great seriousness in this Chamber today. That was the first sentence of the post I wrote yesterday, when I thought we were going to debate Red's proposal on distrust of Justice and Security Minister Sylvi Listhaug. Now the situation is different. But in many ways, the seriousness is the same. Subject to a massive pressure – a witch hunt, she calls it herself – from the Workers' Party and the opposition today chose Listhaug to resign. I'm sorry for her choice, but at the same time I understand a very difficult decision. Now is the time for us all to go a little bit in ourselves. Too many have recently looked for the worst of their opponents rather than let the doubt benefit each other. I think we're all well served to show a little more generosity and liberality in the debate in the future. The political debate in Norway can be tough, and that is good. The Progress Party will always defend freedom of expression and the belief that meaning is good for democracy, but the strength of our democracy, indeed in society as a whole, has always been a high level of trust. It requires that we do not distrust each other's commitment. I hope this will lead to that we can become more cautious in speculating in the motives of others in the political change of word. When Jonas Gahr Støre says that Sylvi consciously, calculated, nerrows up just that hate that took so many lives on July 22, I mean he goes over the line for a decent debate. When Støre calls the country's prime minister coward, or former state councillor No Marte Thorkildsen stamps all who have sent flowers to Sylvi, for racists, then they have stepped over the line. For it cannot be that it is the Workers’ Party – the opposition – that is to sit with the power of definition for what is decent. The proposal of distrust of Minister of Justice and Security Sylvi Listhaug, whom we were about to deal with here today, comes from the Red Party and the representative of Bjørna Moxnes, and neither he nor the party has wanted this government well. It is hardly surprising that the Progress Party believes Listhaug is doing an excellent job. She has done nothing wrong with Stortinget. What she has done, and what she is criticized for, she has complained, and the complaint should have been accepted. Now I would just like to welcome Sylvi Listhaug to the Group of the Progressive Alliance, to a permanent seat in this Chamber. I am sure that she will be a great resource for the entire college – and for the Progress Party’s big group in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e309	We have been in a very acute situation in Stortinget. That situation is none other than the Minister of Justice who created, first by publishing an untrue and trendy message, then by refusing to accept that it was wrong, and finally by not dealing with the situation with a right in the Storting. It was for a long time an open and unanswered question about the state council's intention and calculated out this post on Facebook and knew that it would contribute to conflict and division, but I have to say that her posts on Facebook today about her own departure confirm that that was the case. She obviously didn't mean anything with the right that was made last week. In today's Facebook posts, Sylvi Listhaug shows to everyone that she has not understood the seriousness of her constitutional role as Minister of Justice. For the centre party, there have been in particular two sides that have been important in this matter. One is that a Minister of Justice is a constitutional role that needs to be filled, and whether it is true that the Minister of Justice did not listen to the Prime Minister, as the press has revealed in this matter, it is very serious. Because if she is unable to comply with a command from her boss on a normal everyday life, how would we have thought that she was able to do so in a crisis situation? Indeed, any Minister of Justice must be able to be a cohesive and effective person on the heaviest days of the nation. In such a situation, the Stortinget must also be able to be sure that there is a basic trust between the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice, between the responsible State Council and the whole of Stortinget. That was the role Sylvi Listhaug didn't play. There is a difference between being good on Facebook and being a good, responsible leader for our common security and preparedness. As political leaders, we must not feed the destructive, we must counteract it. More than anyone else in the government, we must all be confident that the country’s Minister of Justice will deal with small and large crisis situations in a good, tidy and cohesive way – in the best interests of the country and the government. That was the trust test Sylvi Listhaug didn't exist. Over time, we have seen a practice in which government councils from different government parties are allowed to communicate across what is the government's adopted policy. It has created a doubt as to whether government governments and government parties are actually behind the government's overall policy. Some form of double communication has been accepted by this government. We've seen it in cases where the Progress Party in the government has gone for one thing and the Advance Party in the Storting for something else. In the last two months, the Left in the Government has meant one thing, while the Left in the Storing has meant something else. That is what is called the'solberg parliamentarism'. It is a parliamentary form that is objectionable, because some may be led to believe that this is common practice in Norwegian policy, but it is not. It's something completely new. And if it is not now corrected in the wake of this case, the limits of what is good parliamentary practice in Norway may be changed on a lasting basis. It is now the prime minister's responsibility to contribute to that not happening. This double communication can no longer be allowed to continue. The centre party was prepared to vote for the motion of censure that was being discussed here today. We believed that the Prime Minister had had an opportunity to avoid this situation. Expressing this has not been an attempt by us to attempt to direct the composition of the government, but to point out the opportunity and the playfulness of the Prime Minister in such a matter. Today, the Prime Minister appears to be a weakened Prime Minister, who is almost made a commentator to the composition of his own government. For now Sylvi Listhaug has taken responsibility. That was right, and that was good – and it was necessary. We could not have had a Minister of Justice who did not understand that she had to play the role of Minister of Justice all the time, we could not have had a Minister of Justice who could not be a Minister of Emergency, where there would be uncertainty if she had dealt with a crisis situation for this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e326	We are at the end of a political crisis that is different from other political crises. It was not triggered by games or hunting for positions. It was not triggered by a major disagreement on a political matter presented by the government. It was not triggered by a breach of information obligations or other formal rules on the relationship between the Storting and the Government. It was triggered by attitudes and words: Attitude because there is a limit to how far a government council can go in ignoring what the majority of the Stortinges think, and because there is a limit on how far a state council post can be used for private-practicing right-wing populism without the Storting must conclude that the prime minister is unable to take control. Words because there is a limit to how far a council can go in speculating in conspiracy theories and feeding forces that can spread hatred and division. All these boundaries have passed, and therefore what has happened this morning is a natural end to the crisis we've been through. The crisis is triggered by attitudes and words, but there are attitudes and words that have shown that there was a strong basis for distrust of the Minister of Justice. The most serious thing in this case has always been the legitimacy of an extreme conspiracy theory and the willingness to speculate in raising up an atmosphere that can be dangerous. Legitimizing conspiracy theories that the Workers' Party does not care about the freedom and security of the nation is simply not the same as taking too much of a political debate, because the hatred of the Workers' Party is just so widespread, and because it has proved to be able to motivate political violence. In many countries, powerful right-wing populists are increasingly using the language of extremists. What the Big One is doing today, and what the Big One has said, means that we don't accept it from power people in Norway. The last few days have shown that we have a weak government that has for too long been governed by right-wing populism. It should be a cross of thought for the Right and for the Left. For the Minister of Justice has not spoken in spite of the government, but on behalf of the government. Listhaug's many outpourings are not accidents that have struck a reluctance government, but a consequence of the political alliance Erna Solberg has built. That's how you do it when you give power to the right populism. The parliamentary leader of the Progress Party moved into the Chamber some of the things that the outgoing State Council drew up at its press conference this morning, on witchcraft, among others. It makes it necessary to link some comments to it. This morning has shown why the motion of censure was necessary and correct. Sylvi Listhaug has shown for the world that the excuse that finally came on Thursday was empty and worthless. Today, everyone else is to blame. Today, the deceased Council of State is the victim. Today, this matter is about her freedom of speech. Government parties should distance themselves from such a self-pitying circus. The retired Minister of Justice is not a victim. She's a human being with a lot of power. She has not only the freedom to say what she wants, but the ability to get the message spread to the whole population. So let's establish the truth: Sylvi Listhaug is no martyr; she herself has created this crisis. Sylvi Lysthaug is not a gambler; she is a mighty man. Sylvi Listhaug does not represent ordinary people in this country, but represents a minority. This matter has not been about which block you belong to, but about what principles you have. It has not been a question of who we want to sit in government, but of what we can accept from the government representatives. The majority have said together that this is where the limit goes. We stand for something, and we don't bend off. We will meet the future with unity and not with division. It's important because our country is in the middle of a choice: should we split up by culture, religion and values, into an increasingly polarized society where we finally lose the ability to talk to each other, or should we go into what are the real crises of our time, the increasing economic inequality and the dangerous climates, and together build a society for the many, not for the few? It's been written political history in the last few days. While in many other countries, more and more politicians are giving in to a growing right-wing population, the majority of the majority of people in the United Kingdom have said that we want to resist. The majority of mistrust was lifted by a great public commitment – common people who say, "That's enough!" Thank you. Ordinary people have finally been heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e354	Left takes note of the decision of Minister of Justice Listhaug. With it, Mr. Listhaug takes responsibility and gives consideration to the College of Government and the good cooperation we have on the non-socialist side, weigh most heavily. There is also respect for the way in which Prime Minister Erna Solberg, but also the party leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, in close cooperation with the party leader in Left, Trine Skei Grande, has handled this matter. Now I and the Left are looking forward to the debate again on policies and solutions that are good for the country and for social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e361	I want to start by thanking the Prime Minister for the message she gave to Stortinget. This was the exit that was right in such a serious matter. It is worthwhile for the Minister of Justice, on his own initiative, to take the lead and step back. One thing like this isn't about winning or losing; it's about propriety. It's important to remember a day like this. And that propriety must apply to all of us. This matter is about trust – trust there in society, trust between people, trust between people and politicians, trust between politicians, trust between position and opposition. That is the question of trust that is the reason for the strong commitment of the Christian People's Party to this matter, because we are fighting for a society where everyone knows a responsibility for each other. Call it social capital, call it socialism, call it propriety. It is precisely the joint commitment of a decent political debate and a decent publicity that also causes this matter to arouse such strong reactions. Someone has said that it was just a Facebook post that this is a debate on the debate. I want to distance myself from such a trivialization. The serious thing is the content and what it sucks up below. When the confidence of the Minister of Justice for many of us was gone, it's also because this case merges into a larger pattern. In our assessment, we have not only looked at this matter, but assessed trust in a whole. A state council shall build bridges, not walls. A government council should include, not exclude. A State Council shall contribute to confidence and not distrust. Governments have characterized it to help people in need like to carry people on gold chairs, people who have it so demanding and have such a demanding life that we can't understand it. Governments have spoken of the ‘goodness rule’ as if there is less goodness we need. The councils have stood behind the violation of church asylum. The Council of State has said that the Christian People's Party is not concerned with helping people in need when we increase assistance, but will only bring out our own goodness. Several of the plays have had a mark that has not been worthy of a state council, which has been divisive, and which has taken the focus away from the political issues. Right-wing extremism and other forms of extremism are on the rise in the Nordic region, and it is precisely in the social media that these cancers thrive and absorb their nourishment. That's what's behind the gravity of this case. And it is this Minister of Justice who has just had the top responsibility to fight right-wing extremism in Norway, the responsibility for our preparedness, for crisis management. Prime Minister Erna Solberg has for five years allowed the Progress Party to operate with double communication in government. It also has a very negative impact on the public debate. Christian People's Party wants propriety in Norwegian politics and in public vocabulary. Therefore, polarising and divisive rhetoric and behaviour must be brought to an end. The Prime Minister has an important responsibility for it, both in his own government and in the government party. The Prime Minister shall be responsible for the fact that neither the Council of State nor the Government Party shall engage in double communication. Now, you have to set a different standard for the public word change and what you can do and say in the big and in the government. I trust that the Prime Minister will take care of this very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e385	Although there is no government crisis or vote on the motion of censure that was raised against Sylvi Listhaug, there is still a need to debate the contradictions that almost triggered the fall of the Solberg government here today. For the debate on an emerging right-wing populism and a dangerous and alienating rhetoric, even if Sylvi Listhaug leaves the government, it will not be gone. Some believe that the motion of censure that was promoted against the Minister of Justice was thinly justified, and that it would be totally wrong to trap an entire government on one extreme Facebook post from one Council of State, a post that was again apologized at least four times, though never so halfhearted. The Greens disagree, for today's debate is about fundamental lines of value policy. The emergence of right-wing populism, hate rhetoric and xenophobia is a central trend today, both in Norway and internationally. But for the last five years, we've had for the first time a Norwegian government where parts of the government obviously target right-wing populism, and this is increasingly from a Minister of Justice. This, in fact, provided a stronger and more fundamental basis for a distrust debate than several other situations in which Norwegian governments have left. When Willoch's government left in 1986, it was because the Workers' Party would not increase the petrol price as much as Kåre Willoch. When Gerhardsen had to leave in 1963, it was because the government had failed in the follow-up to the safety of the Kings Bay mine at Svalbard. And Bondevik agreed to save Norway from a faulty gas power plant. When the Solberg government almost had to leave today, it's really about one of the really big and real value contradictions in today's social development. Because there is between optimism and pessimism in the question of whether we can create a society where different people with different backgrounds and patterns of dress and language can live well together. It stands between internationalism and nationalism. It stands between an inclusive and an exclusive human vision. And there is between propriety and indecentness in the public conversation, where state councils are crucial premiscuous suppliers with very special roles. One place we had to put the line. The size has said here, but no longer. Our hope is that that line is set today by the majority having forced the Minister of Justice to resign. For Western democracies, it is based on an unwritten contract that we should show mutual respect even when we disagree, compromise and cooperation even in the midst of conflicts of interest, and that we should prevent extreme attitudes, violence and conspiracy theories, not fire under them. Sylvi Listhaug has broken that contract repeatedly with his actions, tone and imagery, also in government for several years. Through the signals on cabinet issues, the Prime Minister has suggested that she was willing to play the whole government, solidarity behind such rhetoric. We understand correctly that today the Prime Minister has taken a clear distance from unacceptable, alienating statements from Listhaug. We are grateful for that. But for us in the Greens, this whole issue confirms that the Progress Party should probably leave the government offices, for the Right and Left flirts with right populism should be terminated. The official Norwegian immigration and integration policy and rhetoric should be shaped by moderate forces that respect the majority of the Norwegian people, not as a compromise between Right-wing, Right-wing and Right-wing Radical Forces. We, today, who were ready to vote in favour of joining the Minister of Justice and/or the Government, must recognise that the flows represented by Sylvi Listhaug are not going away with the resignation of the Minister of Justice. We also need to recognise that we are dealing with an international trend. In recent years, Trump and Putin as well as politicians like Nigel Farage in England, Marine Le Pen in France and Geert Wilders in the Netherlands have set much of the agenda for political change in the Western world. I'm not saying that the government or Sylvi Listhaug means the same thing as these politicians, but there are clear common features – increasingly obscure nationalism, anger to anger, and a kind of feeling of being offended, along with the spread of foreign fear, especially against someone with a darker tone in the skin. In today's Europe, we must recognise that against these currents, both the traditional right side and the traditional left side appear to be ridden and helpless. I think it is illustrated, for example. of the messages on Twitter from some of the right-hand side’s staging representatives already last Saturday evening, who said: ‘No, neither likes nor shares the status of Sylvi Listhaug. It should be erased and regretted." However, this did not happen until many days later, when the situation had become quite different. It was deleted due to a lack of rights to a picture – sorry that people reacted as they reacted. When even excuses are not real, even if the words are pronounced, something goes wrong. This contract, which we experience as central to us, is torn over. It's sad. Because we have a lot in common that we can be proud of in Norway, which we can use to further develop Norwegian identity – characteristics such as the relatively small differences with other countries, the strong rights we have, which provide basic social protection, mutual trust in each other and in public, equality and freedom of expression. Maybe we've lost such values of vision because we take them as a matter of course. Maybe they've become so invisible that they've lost their pooling power. This ambiguity may also help many to worry about the success of the integration of new countrymen. On these questions, in the Greens, we don't have a fasitant answer. But we notice that the kind of rhetoric that Sylvi Listhaug promotes fills a void – a void that has arisen in many people after the community of labour movement, church and peasant movement lost its colossal power toward the end of the last century. In the meeting with such rhetoric, both the right and the left appear unable to define an engaging, pooling, relevant future project for Norway. Then it is urgent to revitalise a new political community with impact, with optimism and confidence in the future, and the source of this community is found in the established values I mentioned above. In addition, the Greens believe that the sprouts of a new community exist in green policy, that we are extending solidarity to a wider community and nature. What is man's strongest driving force? What is the driving force that is inexhaustible across borders, origin, ethnicity, culture and religion? Well, that's the concern -- love not least for our own children and descendants. Care for the next generation is stronger than fear of alienation, stronger than nationalism and egoism. It is a universal source of meaningful life for people. We believe that cohesion is strengthened when society has some common goals, which are felt to be worth fighting for, and which concerns everyone. Here we want to contribute in the greens. But if we are to revitalise a new political community in Norway, there has to be more changes than just the Minister of Justice resigning. For us in the Greens, it's still problematic that we have a government where the Progress Party sits with its hand on the steering wheel, and that you might replace one extreme element with another. Instead of strengthening Norwegian values such as small differences, mutual trust and social protection, some from the Progressive Party of Government have attacked these values. And instead of growing the sprouts of a new community on environmental and climate policy, the Progress Party has paved them down. When and if the Prime Minister then so clearly chooses to link the entire destiny of the bourgeois government to the most extreme state council of the Advance Party, the majority of Norwegian politics will have to take power back.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e417	The majority of the population did not trust Justice Minister Sylvi Listhaug. Then it was right of Listhaug to go off. This is a victory for the silent majority who have stood up in Norway for the last week against the right-wing radical minority that under the leadership of Listhaug has been ruling with people for years without any consequences for them. When Listhaug declared that the Workers' Party, and with them the majority on the Stortinget, placed the rights of terrorists over the security of the nation, we clearly said that enough is enough. The list pile shows with its output that she lacks confidence in the bulk of the population. She challenges the principles of the rule of law and fires under a deadly hatred, and such a Minister of Justice cannot trust the majority of the population either. Then it's true that Listhaug finally gave some kind of regret on the fourth attempt, after Erna Solberg had tried for several days to push forward such a complaint. The next day, however, the Minister of Justice organized a floral ceremony in which she thanked for the support for a message she had just complained about the night before. This was a public humiliation of Erna Solberg and a public ridicule of the complaint she reluctantly gave the evening before. It is very serious when a Minister of Justice rather gasoline on the fire of hate, and especially when she flashes out the only party that in recent times has been hit by terror on Norwegian soil. With its play, Listhaug also paves the way for authoritarian ideas that go across some of the main principles of the rule of law. In order to take a step back to the case that triggered Listhaug's play-out, namely the debate on whether the government should be able to deprive people of citizenship, among other things. based on fear of future terror: We in Red take the fight against terrorism in the greatest seriousness. There are probably no other parties on the Storting that have protested more consistently against arms exports and failed regime change wars in the NATO regime that are strengthening Islamist terrorists in and around Europe. But there's one thing we won't give up on the road, and that's legal certainty. So it's not the rights of terrorists you protect when you say no to governments putting people under punishment without law and judgment. What we protect is the individual's legal certainty in meeting with the state, where everyone should have the guarantee that future governments will not abuse their power against you and me. When Red announced that we would promote mistrust proposals against Minister of Justice Sylvi Listhaug, there was no lack of so-called experts who told us that it was of little use and how little it would mean. Fortunately, we did not listen to these so-called experts. It was absolutely necessary that one party proposed to put the Minister of Justice in charge of what she said and did, and took seriously the opinion that was out there and their demands into the main hall. And we've seen the Norwegian people say loud and clear from the beginning. On Friday evening, a collection action was started in response to Listhaug's performance. Since Friday evening, over 80,000 people have contributed to a total of over 16 million. kr to Doctor Without Borders. This gives hope, hope that cohesion can win over hatred, that tolerance can win over intolerance, and that it will be useful to say that enough is enough. With Sylvi Listhaug's departure, it's all over for the right-wing radical minority to get ahead and rule with people without meeting real resistance. When one finally meets the resistance of the populace and of the majority of the Storting, there is a call for witch-hunt and for the knuckling of freedom of expression. Those who have been acting like thugs for years, who have been running into weak groups, do not tolerate that we disagree with them and give them clear resistance, but it must only be used to by Listhaug and her followers. Because with the departure of Listhaug, it's at the end of the time when the silent majority is allowed to be cuddled by the right-wing radical minority, and it promises very well for our little country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e436	The President now gives the floor to the Prime Minister for a final comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e441	I finished my brief post at the beginning of this discussion with a call for us to move on to a debate based on objectivity and propriety, without characterizing each other. In retrospect, it is possible that someone should review their posts and assess whether that was what was said in this room now. There are many areas where it could have been interesting to go into polemics – solar parliamentarism, the honesty of the policy in the debate, the question of right-wing populism has been introduced into government, stamping from one side and the other. I think it's the other days for that polemic than today. There may be other days for the party political discussion, with characteristics of each other that I think we should preferably avoid, but for which I do not think the speeches in this debate were representative. And when you talk about witch hunting, it's interesting that this weekend there was an MDG politician who thought that you should reintroduce the witch burning, with reference to Sylvi Listhaug. There are perhaps several people who should think through their rhetoric about these matters. I think one of the most important issues we should talk about is how we fight extremism in the best possible way. It's been hanging out as an important matter over the government I've been running for four and a half years. It has done so since July 22nd, because it was an attack that struck us – primarily the Workers' Party, because it was the goal of the terrorist action. But that struck democracy in Norway. It is true that we stand united with each other when one party is taken for what they have done and express as their political position. That is why the follow-up work since 22 July has been one of the main themes of this government, to follow up on the practical: the establishment of better preparedness through the follow-up of the 22nd July Commission, but also the fight against extremism, because we felt that preventing extremism was important. Therefore, one of the first things this government did, under the direction of Minister of Justice Anundsen, was to draw up an action plan against radicalisation and extremism, not only against jihadism and the fundamental extremism of Islam and Islamic warriors, but also against right-wing extremism. That's why it was this government that set up a research center on right-wing extremism, the C-REX Center, which over five years gets 50 million. kr to research precisely: what is creating extreme attitudes in our country? How is this affected? This is why the action plan has been renewed with new measures, such as: goes on following up hat talk. What is it that creates the hat talk in social media? What are the things that trigger it, and what overview do we have? New research projects announced this year are linked to this. It was we who established the 22nd of July center, to make sure we weren't going to forget, and to lay a foundation for generations to learn from the tragic event that was on July 22nd. And it is we who have made an action plan against hate talk and have provided a teaching system aimed at recruiting for extremism – in addition to all the other work done on this. So there's no basis for saying that right-wing populism has come into the government. This government has had a powerful and clear response to right-wing populism, to right-wing extremes and to left-wing extremes and other questions that may challenge us in the future. It's precisely because we see the world that has evolved, where the extremes are close, how extreme thoughts contribute to one side of the debate – whether they are anti-fascist fractions, Islamist jihadists or Nazi organizations, of which we have unfortunately seen the emergence of, and what PST does. We're working on the work that's going on out in the municipalities, as well as on the action plans we have, to have a little bit of a ball against young people being recruited to these ideas, to learn something else. Then I think it is important that we also manage to hold a debate in Norwegian policy that takes a clear and clear distance from all forms of extremism. So the first thing we can do is we can't label each other. The more we stamp each other, the more we move the extreme thoughts into enclosed spaces, and the less they are challenged. Therefore, the discussion of propriety is an important discussion in the political debate, but there must also be a discussion of honesty related to this. I think the day to record all the other balls that have been in this debate is another time, but once everyone has read the records of what they themselves said, they can consider whether they contributed to propriety in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e458	In the light of the Prime Minister's communication, the President will propose that case No. 1 shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. In addition, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are postponed and taken up for treatment in a subsequent meeting in Stortinget. – It is also considered to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e476	The President is asking for peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e481	In this proposition, proposed changes to the laws which restrict access and the right to public services for persons who have avoided punishment or prosecution are proposed. The changes in criminal law ensure that they do not have access to payments and other transfers, including public statements, if the wealth is under management as a result of avoidance from punishment or prosecution. The changes in the law on popular protection mean that certain benefits under the law are suspended or reduced if the property of the recipient is under management as a result of avoidance from punishment or prosecution. The proposal involves an extension of the current rules on suspension or reduction of benefits in the event of detention in prison, etc. Today, the law on popular protection contains a number of rules which suspend or restrict sentences during custody and criminal prosecution in prison, but it has no rule which specifically limits the right of intent to be served outside the prison or criminal prosecution itself. If intent is to avoid criminal prosecution or a criminal reaction, the person concerned, as the law is currently in force, could be entitled to benefits under the law on the provision of public security as long as the conditions for the provision of such services are met. The purpose of suspending or reducing such performances is two-fold. Firstly, it is desirable to have a more effective coercive remedy against the avoidance of punishment and criminal prosecution, i.e. that the performance should not be used to finance the avoidance of punishment or prosecution. Secondly, it is not desirable to pay out the benefits that are intended not to be available at all. The proposal represents an intervention in the economy of the objectives and must therefore be assessed against the proportionality requirements of the EMK and the Constitution. We see, in line with the Ministry's assessment, that the proposed law houses impose the right to carry out proportionality assessments in the specific cases, and that it may be reasonable and necessary to use the management of the property for the purpose of forcing it. It is important to stress that the duration of the measure is limited to self-evidentity, as the basis for the coercive measure will fall away when it is appropriate to notify the authorities. The proposal involves getting public expenditure, but can provide savings as the aims could lose the benefits that would have been paid in the period of avoidance. The government's proposal to restrict access to public services under this type of circumstance is both accurate and reasonable. Not least, it is important that people should be able to trust how authorities manage their community funds. It must also be seen as unfortunate and a challenge for several thousand people to have a detention sentence and criminal prosecution in Norway, while at the same time accepting public statements. In the strictest sense, these persons may have – or have had – this possibility, directly or indirectly, because they have opposed this type of public statement. The changes in criminal law and the law on popular protection that have been introduced here could have a preventive effect, while at the same time it could also save the public for unfair payments during the period of avoidance. We note that all the hearing bodies that have given their opinion have supported these changes, and I am very pleased that there is a joint committee that is behind the recommendations that are being made in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e500	Thanks to the rapporteur for a thorough explanation of the matter. I just want to say on behalf of the Advancement Party that we are very pleased that the government has submitted this matter and that it has now received such agreement in Stortinget. It is important to stop access to public benefits for persons who are convicted or suspected of serious crime and who avoid punishment or prosecution. At that time, restrictions on social security rights are important. We have seen that social security benefits have been paid to people living abroad to avoid punishment or criminal prosecution for serious crime. We know that's very unfortunate. In order to force a person who avoids punishment or criminal prosecution to appear, the court may today place the assets of conviction or intention under administration. In other words, persons convicted or suspected of serious crime lose access to, among others: money and deposits. In some such cases, the right has been bypassed by the fact that social security benefits have been paid to an account abroad. The changes proposed by the government here would mean that all payments, including government benefits, to convictions or intentions that have been given their wealth under management shall be made to a bank account in Norway under the control of the police. Furthermore, the Government proposes that, in such a situation, jurisdictions or sentences should also be limited to certain rights in accordance with public policy. Today, those who sentence a prison sentence, or those in custody, have to endure such restrictions as long as they are in prison. The law should not give better rights to those who avoid punishment or prosecution. The public should not, and should not, provide financial support for those who avoid punishment or criminal prosecution for serious crime and who should in any case not have access to that money. Providing those persons with the opportunity to save social security benefits while on the move may weaken the effect of the decision of the court to put their assets under management. Similarly, a worker who avoids punishment or criminal prosecution would not normally be able to earn wages in the usual way. The courts or tribunals may, even at any time, ensure that the administration is abolished by meeting with the police and may, therefore, be entitled to social security benefits if the conditions for doing so are met in order to provide for the necessary residence in prison. This is a good case, and it also ensures equal treatment for individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e519	It is not my participation in Vikersund that is why I had to spend some time up to the pulpit. I have only been driving in the corkscrew up in Holmenkollen on akeboard. But I think I can express it so that both parts are an extreme sport, I can confirm that. I think everyone very much agrees that it is not reasonable for people who have left the country to avoid punishment or investigation to continue to receive social security benefits from the country from which they escape. This bill will be a very accurate tool to stop that. Under today's rules, the police can ask the court to place the wealth of people who avoid punishment and investigation under public administration. This will include, inter alia: block all bank accounts and make it considerably more difficult for them to finance, inter alia. Fluctuation. The purpose is to ensure that such persons report to the police and take their punishment. In practice, however, Nav’s public benefits have been kept out of police control, including: by paying them to the foreign account of convictions. That is why it is important and very good that an overall Judicial Committee has been in favour of the government's proposed legislative changes. The legislative changes proposed in the Criminal Procedures Act will ensure that if someone has been given wealth under government as a result of avoidance, they lose access to all public benefits and other payments. It is absolutely necessary for this instrument to operate effectively and preventively against avoidance. At the same time, there is no reason why the State should pay public social security benefits to persons who in any case are not required to dispose of these funds. The proposed amendments to the law on social security will therefore limit the very right to many social security benefits. I fully agree with the Judicial Committee that limiting access to public services in this way will also help to maintain fiscal morality and the confidence of the population in how the community uses the funds, how they are managed. The fact that it is up to the courts to decide whether someone’s wealth is to be placed under public administration ensures the necessary principles of legal certainty, which there have been some questions. It is also important to bear in mind that the public administration of the assets of the property of the intentioned or sentenced persons will be abolished as soon as they report to the police. It is thus up to the person himself how long a government of wealth should last. I am therefore pleased that we can today gather on this bill. I also think we can agree that the proposal is necessary, that the proposal is balanced, and hopefully it will also be an effective instrument in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e534	In the spring, TV 2 had a follow-up to a single case about a person who lived in Thailand, who was suspected of having committed serious crime, but who then received disability benefit from the Norwegian state. This is an example of things that I think the vast majority of voters, the vast majority of people out there, think is totally unreasonable. It is about trust and respect for the proper use of tax money, that we do not have a system that helps people who avoid punishment or avoid criminal prosecution to receive public benefits. This is an example of a case where everyone agrees, and I also think it is very good that the Stortinge is expressing today, because it is a unanimous vote by the committee that is on the table. What's a little bit of a shame is that this has taken a long time. These possibilities have existed for many years. I'm not going to blame, because there are many governments – over several years – that could have cleaned up this. I'm not going to make party politics out of this, but now it's being cleared up, now it's sending out a clear signal: people who avoid punishment, avoid criminal prosecution, can't expect them to receive funding from the people's rights, from the taxpayers. That's good, and the government deserves all the credit for cleaning this up. I also think that it shows the Greatness at its best when, in a unanimous way – as you're going to do today – you make sure to clean up an unreasonable situation, which people most think is necessary. So that's good, and it's a pleasure day that we're today setting a point for this unfairness.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e543	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e559	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e568	This is also a legislative proposal on which there is broad consensus in the Stortinget. Today, a person in one Nordic country who is sentenced to prison may apply for punishment in another Nordic country under some conditions. So this doesn't apply to community punishment. Work has taken place over many years to broaden cooperation to include social penalties. The work has been ongoing in a Nordic working group, at the Minister of Justice meeting and at the Nordic Ministerial meeting. Following the proposal, the law is now amended to allow Norwegian authorities to transfer the implementation of community penalties to other Nordic countries. There are also opportunities for other countries to transfer the sentence to Norway. This allows Norwegian courts to impose social penalties instead of prison sentences also on offenders residing in a Nordic country other than Norway. The payment can then take place in their home country. Rehabilitation and repatriation of convicted people to society are an important principle in Norwegian and Nordic criminal care, but with this amendment we will ensure that people are properly addressed even if they live in another country. In addition, amendments to the criminal enforcement law that have nothing to do with the proposition are proposed. Among other things, it is proposed that the maximum number of hours of community punishment be extended from 180 hours to 240 hours. Another proposal implies that the control of high-level prisons will be at the same level as for prisons with a particularly high level of security. This proposal means that a lawyer or a public authority person will also be able to be examined here using technical equipment or a dog before contacting prisoners. We recommend Stortinget to vote in favour of the setting as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e581	Thank you for a thorough review by the rapporteur. The proposal has as its intention the mutual transfer of the implementation of social penalties between the Nordic countries. The execution of the punishment in the country to which it belongs will fulfil the intention of the principle of normality and subsidiarity for atonement and will thus facilitate a good return to the society in which the person is to live. The proposal also extends the scope of access control to lawyers and public authority representatives in prisons with a high level of security. Both the Association of Lawyers and the Association of Lawyers believe that this could make the mission that defends the problem more difficult and weakens the relationship between the lawyer and the client. The working party cannot see that there is any specific reason for this change or that there is now a greater need for the control of lawyers. Nevertheless, it is not control itself that we disagree with, but we are asking questions about increased difficulty in implementing the defence mission. In our opinion, the need and purpose of the proposal will be met by the carrying out of random sampling instead of all input control requirements. The Labour Party, together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left, therefore supports the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking, in the practice of law on criminal enforcement, Section 27, that investigations against lawyers in prisons with a high level of security be limited to spot checks and that the government will at a later stage return to the Grand Duchy with an assessment of whether this is sufficient.’ The proposal has been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e597	The representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e602	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good cooperation and a good review of the matter. This amendment comes as an adaptation to how society evolves. People live more across borders and especially in nearby countries in the Nordic region. For the members of the Committee of the Right and the Progressive Party, it is important that convictions are given the opportunity to meet society properly after settlement. Changes to the law on the enforcement of Nordic judgments on punishment and the Penal Code, i.e. the transfer of social penalties, provide this opportunity. The Nordic countries have a similar penal code, which is why it facilitates the cross-border enforcement of social sanctions. What is important, and the main reason for such an agreement, is the whole goal of a punishment, which is to settle separately, so that we can proceed in life in a law-abiding way. The best way is to impose such short sentences and community penalties in the vicinity of the society in which to live, and possibly have family and friends. It is therefore proposed to extend the residence requirement in Section 48 of the Criminal Act to the other Nordic countries in addition to Norway. The proposal allows Norwegian courts to impose social penalties instead of prison sentences for offenders residing in a Nordic country other than Norway. The social penalty may then be transferred to completion in the home Member State. A key prerequisite for implementation is that the area of social sanctions in the Nordic countries is equal and that these changes will have minimal economic and administrative consequences. This is supported by the proposal to strengthen access control in prisons with a high level of security and to have the same access control as in prisons with a particularly high level of security. In this case, the criminal services may use technical equipment or dog for the purpose of checking against lawyers or public authorities. The need for security measures has increased in recent years, including for prisons with a high level of security. It is a matter of safety that criminal services cannot, for example, oblige lawyers or public authorities to pass metal ports in prisons with a high level of security. We therefore believe that the proposal to extend control in prisons with a high level of security is in line with Norway's Convention obligations and, as I said, supports this change in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e615	In the implementation of penalties, it is essential to ensure that the framework around the offender provides good conditions for living a law-abiding life. The transfer of criminal enforcement between the Nordic countries in terms of community or community services is positive. It will ensure that community and community services can be carried out in the country where the convicted person is to live and function, and will facilitate good integration into society and build on a life without crime. It is beneficial both for the convicted and for the great community. With regard to the proposal to extend access control to lawyers and public authority representatives to high-level prisons, the Central Party considers that this should initially be limited to a sampling system. The Ministry must then, on the basis of experience, make a more detailed assessment of the need to extend the scheme. The defence mission is of a very special nature. It is important to protect whether both the general trust of society has in defenders and lawyers, and the trust between lawyer and client. The proposal for an extended control does not appear to be justified by a greater need for such control than it has been in the past. I heard that the representative Gustavsen referred to such an expanded need, but I cannot see that it was documented. The introduction of increased access control may pose significant practical and time-related problems because many prisons are not organised for it. There is a danger that the proposal will lead to a large increase in the use of time and resources, both by criminal authorities and by the defence. We believe it is right to place great emphasis on the fact that the defence mission must not be more difficult to carry out or more time-consuming than it is today. We will therefore support an additional proposal to take samples, in line with what I have said.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e624	I appreciate the unanimous support of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for the proposed legislative changes. The amendments to the laws represent, as many have been involved, an important contribution to a well-functioning Nordic reconciliation transfer system. It strengthens the security regime around our prisons. In many criminal cases, social penalties are imposed. A positive aspect of this type of punishment is that it gives the condemned opportunity to continue working and other things in life that point in the right direction, namely to a life without crime. The legislative proposals provide for the transfer of judges of community and community services to completion between the Nordic countries, in the same way as for other criminal acts. The purpose of the rehabilitation of convictions is to ensure that the community penalty should be implemented in the country in which it belongs. Today, it is only in cases where the defendant has resided in Norway that it can be sentenced to social punishment. For defendants with a foreign residence, social penalties are not an option. In that case, it is not appropriate that in cases where there could otherwise have been an opportunity to impose social penalties, prison sentences should be imposed because defendants live in another Nordic country. These include: This weakness we are now clearing up. The legal basis for community sanctions, the content and implementation of the social penalty are almost the same in the Nordic countries. This is therefore a good reason why offenders residing in another Nordic country should be able to be sentenced to community sanctions in line with Norwegian citizens. The social penalty may then be transferred to completion in the home Member State. In addition to being a substantively good solution, legislative changes represent a positive contribution to continued good Nordic cooperation in criminal matters. The second main point of this bill is the proposal to extend the possibility of access control to lawyers or public authority representatives when entering prison. Today, these groups are in a special position compared to other groups — in the form of minor controls. I note that the majority of the Judicial Committee and the Association of Lawyers highlight arguments for the continuation of today’s regime – also the proposal that was promoted. But evolution requires that we think completely about safety. I cannot see that the change contained in the bill on lawyers will lead to a significant increase in the use of time or otherwise hamper their tasks. It has been reported from criminal services that there are rarely any problems with queues under control in prison. The inspection shall be carried out in a manner which respects the right of prisoners to both written and oral uncontrolled contact with their lawyer. The change in the law is in line with other developments in society and supports the need for effective control, for the protection of all those in prison. We are talking about the protection of both prisoners and anyone else who has a role in the execution of punishment and custody. Also, a sampling system will not meet the purpose in the same way. On this basis, I am pleased that a joint committee has been behind the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e639	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Case No. 4 and 5 are exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e657	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e666	On behalf of the Education and Research Committee, I will present the Committee's nomination to Document 8:95 S for 2017-2018 from the Workers' Party to introduce the practical school bag as a national bet in kindergartens – an offer for all municipalities must design and give their students. The Committee refers both to the report of the Ludvigsen Committee and to the report entitled ‘Art of the Possibility’, which both emphasises the role of the practical-esthetic subjects in the school of the future. The school shouldn't teach students just to rehearse the knowledge we already have. Norway needs creative, creative and innovative students to meet the challenges of the future. It is an overall committee that stresses that one of the most important tasks for the school is to ensure that all students develop their potential, both professionally and creatively. In order for each student to experience challenges and mastery based on his/her abilities and needs, the school must have a balanced range of subjects where theoretical study preparation does not override the practical-esthetic subjects and where creative stimulation is continuous throughout the school cycle. Students learn in different ways, and as important as a wide range of courses, schools use a variety of educational methods. The Committee would point out that the Stortninget in the context of the review of the Notice. St. 28 for 2015–2016 asked the government to present a plan for strengthening practical and aesthetic subjects in school in the short and long term, and that such a plan should also address the recruitment of qualified teachers to the practical and aesthetic subjects. The Committee looks forward to such a plan being presented to the Stortinget as soon as possible. However, although the Committee as a whole is very positive to the practical aesthetics of schools, the other parties have not supported the Workers' Party's proposal to introduce a national initiative on the so-called practical school bag. The parties themselves will probably justify this in the subsequent debate. For the SV, we will focus on other tools to give schools and teachers the space for action needed to create a more practical and varied school day, where practical-esthetic subjects receive increased attention and space in school. However, a majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party, are united in stressing the school's important mission: to increase students' knowledge and skills in the practical and aesthetic subjects. If we're to succeed in this, we have to facilitate that schools have teachers with competence in these subjects. In 2014, on behalf of the Ministry of Knowledge, the Central Statistical Office carried out a survey of the competences of primary school teachers, such as: showed that 36 pst. by the teachers of art and crafts, 45 pst. by the teachers in food and health, 40 pst. by the teachers in physical exercise and 34 pst. by music teachers did not meet the competence requirements of the practical-esthetic subjects at the youth level. The Committee therefore proposes that the government ensure that candidates with a bachelor’s degree in practical-esthetic subjects – 180 credits – qualify for admission to practical-pedagogical education – PPU. On this basis, on behalf of the majority of the Committee, I recommend the following proposal for a decision: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Bachelor’s degree in practical and aesthetic subjects qualifies for admission to practical education, PPU.’ [[180 study points]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e694	The common school is our main common arena where you meet across social classes, income, religion or background. Through the common school we have the opportunity to lift everyone, give them skills, skills and values, values that both gather, build trust and provide security for our own position and position. In today's society, the common school is the most important common arena that we should build up for all students. In this specific case, the Workers' Party's view is that we need a school for everyone, where all children are given the opportunity to learn in the way that suits them. Children are not made to sit behind a pult all day. They need to learn with both their heads and their hands. I often hear that the school has become too academic, with too little room for practical learning. Unfortunately, I think there's something in it. The loop bench is away from many schools. Trying practical skills at home is not as common as before, and fewer children today have parents who are skilled workers. That's why many people don't really have any idea of what a profession is, or whether they like practical work. Nor can they try or discover what talents they have. At the same time, the character pressure on young people has increased, and more children and young people report mental problems, a school with increased stress and anguish of performance among young people. We now also have a much-needed discussion on the six-year reform. It's necessary. Students should learn with both their heads and hands, and the Workers' Party will have a school with more practical learning from the first grade of primary school. That is why we are promoting the proposal in this case on a practical school bag. Creating a better relationship between first-year theory and practice is important. It is important because primary schools should prepare students for the full range of upper secondary education opportunities and to improve the recruitment basis for the professional subjects, which are the continuing training programmes of about half of the students. We believe that introducing a practical school bag as a national initiative in primary and secondary school will give students more knowledge and insight into the subject and occupation, give them the opportunity to learn through practical teaching and inspire more young people to choose vocational training later. In the design of the practical school bag, inspiration should be drawn from the cultural school bag. It must be as natural for students to visit a construction site, a nursing home or an enterprise which is involved in a theatre performance or visit a museum. It is possible to draw representatives from the labour market or to set up work inspired by the education system at school, but it can also be done more directly, as introduced by the Oslo City Council's practical school bag, where they have developed, together with the construction industry, a teaching system in which students can build models of houses. This is not about distinguishing theory from practice, but about creating a relationship between theory and practice. There are already many good examples of practical learning in many schools, but perhaps much of the practical learning has fallen out, possibly as a result of teachers with little time, that there has been too much focus on test results and measurement in school, rather than what creates the best possible learning for students. There is a need to focus more systematically on the use of practical forms of learning at all schools, because it can give students at all levels a more varied school day with greater motivation and better learning. I think it is a pity that the focus on a broad effort for a more practical school day is not reflected in the government statement. The content of a practical school bag must obviously be localised. To the argument against supporting the proposal for a practical school bag — not imposing local arrangements: the cultural school bag is a nationally supported initiative focusing on something important and lacking in school today. We get a lot of input from teachers, school leaders and trade unionists that commitment and respect for practical work should increase in society. It should not at least increase in school. We have a lot of suggestions. This is one suggestion for getting more practical learning back in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e711	Will the representative address the proposal of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e716	Yes, I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e721	The representative Martin Henriksen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e726	There is a strong consensus that the practical and aesthetic subjects are important in Norwegian school. Practical work at school is important because practical skills are a central part of the competence of students, because many students learn through practical approaches, and because students should have knowledge of different types of professional practice. There are already many leaders and schemes in initial training that emphasise the importance of practical work at school. Many measures have been put in place to ensure the emphasis on practical skills in primary schools and to ensure good recruitment to the professions. Several governments have contributed to improving the relationship between theory and practice in schools, and some of the last, and perhaps some of the most important, is the work on trade renewal, which is now under way. We want a school that also emphasizes practical and aesthetic skills, because we want to give our children and young people the best school possible. Now the attitude in this matter has changed a little as to what this debate is likely to be about the most. The Workers' Party's proposal to introduce the practical school bag has no support from any of the other parties in the committee, and I am pleased that this would once again be an action that would go far too far in steering the content of the school and restricting the freedom of teachers' action and method. The proposal put forward as the Committee's recommendation is a proposal which has not been supported by the Right, a proposal to allow applicants for practical and pedagogical education with a bachelor's degree in practical and aesthetic subjects to be admitted on a lower basis than students with a background in most other subjects. The proposal is based on a failing premise, and there is also a mistake in the comments of the majority. It is not the case that the practical-pedagogical training requirement that came in 2015 includes an exception for admission of students with a bachelor in practical and aesthetic subjects. On the other hand, it provides for an exception for applicants with a bachelor's degree in performing and creative arts, which includes a few educations and sports subjects. It is therefore not correct that the Ministry of Knowledge has proposed to restrict this. This is a misinterpretation of the current rule, which will be applied to the comment printers. How, in this comment, it can also be said that several universities have started work to facilitate such bachelor's offers is quite difficult to understand, because they cannot have any basis for believing that they are a valid basis for admission. I find it strange that the same parties who say that they want increased competence through a five-year teacher training, increased status of teacher training and increased commitment to the practical and aesthetic subjects, at the same time want to introduce a derogation from the admission requirements for this training. The government has high ambitions for all subjects in Norwegian school, including the practical and aesthetics. A lift of skills is needed to increase the qualifications of teachers, including in these subjects. Lower skills requirements here can give a weakened status to the subjects in school and in society and give the impression that politicians give priority to theoretical and cognitive skills, not to talk about politicians being willing to accept that teachers with lower education and lower skills should teach our children and young people in these subjects. Lower demands could lead to poorer, and not better, recruitment of skilled teachers for practical and aesthetic subjects. When it comes to recruiting teachers, schools are most likely to first employ a teacher who can teach more than one subject, as teachers with a bachelor's degree in practical and aesthetic subjects would not be able to do. In the worst case, this could lead to a pay gap where teachers in practical and aesthetic subjects are lagging behind in wage developments compared to teachers who have a five-year teacher training. We still believe that the safest way to increase the recruitment of teachers in different disciplines is to raise the status of teachers, and then this is not the way to go. The government has recently launched a process by setting up a selection to investigate and, where appropriate, develop a five-year dual-disciplinary teacher training in practical and aesthetic subjects — an education that is currently three years old and one-year old. It has also been assessed to make regulatory changes that allow all applicants for practical and pedagogical Bachelor’s programme to be accepted up to a three-year master’s degree integrating practical and pedagogical education. Such education, perhaps combined with a deadline for starting the master's degree as a recording basis, will be a much better solution for raising the skills and status of teachers in practical and aesthetic subjects, which I am convinced will also increase recruitment to the subjects – for the best of our students. If a majority here today is in favour of what is proposed in the recommendation of the committee majority, I don't think we're going to get there. That would be a pity, both for the teachers of the practical and aesthetic subjects and not least for the students. I know it doesn't happen so often, but I still have a hope that there can be a majority in order not to go into the comments and suggestions of the majority in this matter, and that instead we can work for a better solution, as the department is already doing, for increased qualifications and recruitment also for teachers in practical and aesthetic subjects. It's allowed to hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e745	The document proposes to introduce the practical school bag as a national bet in primary and secondary schools, as an offer that all municipalities must design and offer to their students. I support the intention behind the proposal and will also stress the need for more practical correction of teaching. That's right, as Martin Henriksen's representative says, that children are not created to sit down for a whole day. It's important that they learn to learn both with their heads and with their hands. But I don't want to oblige the municipalities to offer a practical school bag. I will await the renewal of the profession and the work done there to facilitate more practical education. The party of progress is in favour of the primary school providing the basis for all disciplines and taking care of all. I am concerned that everyone should be the best version of themselves, and one of the most important tasks for the school is to ensure that all students develop their potential, both professionally and creatively – get challenges and experience mastering based on skills and their own assumptions. If we are to get to this, the school must have a balanced trade offer where there is room for both theoretical and practical and aesthetic subjects. The Party of Advancement shall be a member of, inter alia: level-sharing, that adapted training should apply to all, and that we should give great freedom to teachers and school leaders as to how they will design school everyday life. I am convinced that school days will be better if teachers decide even more themselves, and I think they need more trust and freedom – not another prepacked backpack imposed by the state. I am concerned that this imposed will lead to a narrowing of the academic judgement of the teachers and to the exclusion of the school and the teachers of their responsibility for teaching. It's great to hear if all the different ways teachers in schools around the country solve different issues, and how they choose to be creative in the way they teach their students. That is the initiative I want to praise, and the example from Oslo, which is used as a basis for this matter, is very good. But it must not be the case that we get Document 8 proposals for injunctions on what all schools should do, every time an Labour Party politician visits a school. I think it is positive if schools and teachers on their own initiative initiate actions that lead to more practical education and contact with local workplaces, but it is the school and teachers who are best placed to assess how this should be done. In the Progress Party, we are in favour of freedom of choice. This is why we have been involved in introducing a new, optional, school-based occupation, which is designed to provide students with experience in the field of vocational training. I think it is affordable for the proposers to raise the debate. If there is something we need, there are more skilled workers in the future. Six out of ten companies in the NHO have announced that we need more skilled workers, and the SSB has announced that we will need almost 100,000 new skilled workers over the next 20 years. Then it's important that we get more people to know about practical subjects and then choose a professional course. But in this context, it is important to remember that it doesn't matter what is done in primary school, if they never get into work because of lack of apprenticeship space. It is we in the government who have dared to demand that public enterprises include apprentices. The last government didn't. And it was we who increased the apprentice grant, while the previous government let it stand almost still. The result we see after our professional investment – that 2017 was the year when most apprenticeships were concluded. This government is concerned both with a professional career and with the practice of school life more. But we believe it is natural to await the renewal of the profession that is going on, before we may impose major changes to curricula and school day-to-day arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e764	Practical and theoretical competence is equally valuable. Students at school have both practical and theoretical skills. They learn, master and are motivated differently. No students are equal, but everyone should have equal opportunities, both practical and theoretical. The school has to take that into account. In today's case, the intention, as several speakers before me have said, is good. It's a desire to get more practice into school. The challenge is when it comes as a project, a side project that – as the Centre Party sees it – cannot be easily accommodated in the work the schools are already doing to lift practical skills and mastery. The promise of knowledge has been shown to make the school theoretically and uniformly. Extensive measurement and testing of students’ learning outcomes in priority subjects and skills gives a distorted picture of what the school is for. Societal engagement is far greater than giving increased learning pressures in the basic subjects. That's why we need more practical learning into school in all disciplines. Time thieves and reporting requirements are examples of elements that delay instruction. In the spirit of the Center Party, it's they with the shoe on that know best where it prints. The practical and aesthetic subjects in school need a boost, and they need to recruit teachers. Therefore, the proposal to ensure that those with a bachelor's degree in practical and aesthetic subjects are qualified for admission to practical education is important. Now that the revision of curricula is well under way, it is important that practitioners also feel something about the content of the practical subjects. In addition, there must be room for e.g. activity, out-of-school and out-of-school training which can provide practical learning outcomes for students in other subjects. In any case, the freedom of method of teachers is an important principle. The Centre Party has worked over many years to make education in primary and secondary schools more practical. A more practical day of schooling is important, both for the motivation of students, for the better provision of different groups of students and for continuing vocational training. Under the red-green government, we took hold of the unfortunately somewhat forgotten childhood. The centre party was involved in presenting a separate high school report. As a result, the vocational training profession was established and different electives were reinstated. And precisely choice makes school more diverse. For example, all youth students have a specialised educational choice, which will provide them with more knowledge of the labour market and help them to make informed educational choices. In order to provide good teaching in these subjects, qualified learning skills are needed, but in addition, the quality of teaching and the learning outcomes of pupils depend on the availability of equipment and material. The centre party is aware that the former special rooms of many schools have unfortunately been removed, and that in new schools it is often not a priority to have separate rooms adapted to subjects where students can benefit from trials and carry out practical activities as part of the teaching. This limits the use of teaching methods that combine theory and practice. Fortunately, several schools are already using the activities mentioned in the proposal for a representative, such as outsourcing, working weeks, excursions and company visits. However, the problem is that schools often cannot afford to cover travel expenses when students are leaving. The Centre Party considers that such activities must be an integral part of the subjects and not be treated as separate side projects for ordinary education or funding. Of course, it must be up to the individual school and learn to choose activities and specific teaching arrangements, but there must also be room for action and opportunity for it. That is why the Central Party is opposed to the proposal of the representative as it stands today. We don't want to run the schools in detail. Instead, we want the subjects that have the content and the ability to become practical to be strengthened in the field of vocational renewal, and that teachers are given the opportunity to use methods and practical activities in the other subjects. Framework conditions are necessary for the use of both practically oriented activities and knowledge dissemination in cooperation with the labour market and other external activities. I also look forward to the review of the six-year reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e788	The Christian People's Party is concerned with a more practically directed school and education. This is important to equip our students for professional life and to provide them with skills to solve the challenges of the future in a good way. As the Ludvigsen Committee decided, Norway needs creative, creative and innovative students. Schools must train and stimulate more than students to produce facts and knowledge in the normal sense. It is particularly important for students who have challenges related to theoretical subjects but who are strong in the practical subjects. More practical education will help provide better training for all students. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the intention of this proposal. In the context of the review of the report of the Ludvigsen Committee, an overall committee concluded that the practical skills of the students need to be stimulated more throughout the school cycle. Then the government was asked to present a plan for strengthening the practical-esthetic subjects in the short and longer term, and a plan for recruiting qualified teachers to these subjects. While we're discussing this, the big trade union innovation is going well, and a central part of this should just be a more practical school. We also know that there is already a lot going on at school in this area, for example. through own subjects which have the main theme of working life. These include: set up a separate profession, which is designed to provide students with experience in the field of vocational training. This subject is organised very differently in different schools, but as the majority write in the position, we will encourage more schools to offer this subject and develop it in an even more practical direction, so that students get work practices and basic skills, which can provide a good basis for further education. The Christian People's Party therefore does not support the proposal to introduce its own practical school bag. We are concerned that teachers should have the freedom of method and the ability to exercise professional judgement when it comes to the choice of instruments and methods. A proposal that requires all municipalities to offer their students a practical school bag is considered to restrict the freedom and responsibility of schools and teachers, rather than the opposite, although schools themselves should be able to apply for different projects. Recruiting qualified teachers to the practical-esthetic subjects has over time been a major challenge. Today, we see that the teachers who teach in these subjects meet little of the skills required to teach in this type of subject. It is therefore very unfortunate that there are now doubts about today's exemption from the requirement for a master's degree for admission to the PPU for people with a bachelor's degree in practical and aesthetic subjects who want to qualify to be teachers. The same parties that make up the majority of the committee raised this issue also in the previous period, but the government then chose to restrict the possibility of exemption to only a few of the students taking practical and aesthetic bachelor degrees in its consultation proposal. The Christian People's Party therefore backs the proposal – as we did in the previous period – that the government should ensure that the Bachelor's degree in practical and aesthetic subjects qualifies for admission to practical education and training. [[PPU]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e805	I mainly share the intentions of the proposers. Practical work at school is important for many reasons. Many students learn best and are more motivated by practical work on the substance. This is also how they become familiar with forms of work from different education and occupations. However, the proposal by the representative Henriksen and others seems to assume that the school today has few opportunities to work in practice or to allow students to experience different aspects of working life. It's not like that, and I'll draw out some examples. During youth, students have educational choices as their own subject. The condition must include, inter alia: contribute to strengthening cooperation between youth and local work and can take place in non-school learning venues. Students with special interest and talent for working with practical tasks may choose the subject of upper secondary vocational education. Here, they gain experience of working methods used in different professions. In the government platform, we have decided to set up a new practical and labour-oriented crafts sector as an electoral profession at the youth level. I have already started developing this, and the subject will be tested as early as the 2019/2020 school year. The practical-esthetic subjects have a special responsibility for students to work practically and to solve practical tasks. In the renewal of curricula, it is stressed that these subjects will be given more practical guidance throughout the training cycle. In addition, the Ministry of Autumn will present its own strategy to strengthen practical and aesthetic learning in the school. The proposers justify their proposal on the one hand that fewer students have chosen the profession after the government change in 2013. The year’s candidate number for secondary education is now ready and this year there are 1,200 more applicants for the first year of vocational education compared to last year. But in my opinion, it's very important how many students actually become apprentices. In 2013-2017, the number of apprenticeships awarded to applicants for youth increased by 23 pst. During that period, the government increased the grant to apprentice enterprises, and we introduced demands for apprentices in public acquisitions. I would like to add that the government has chosen 2018 for the years of professional science, and we will continue to promote the benefits of choosing a profession. Furthermore, I recently decided to change the professional structure, so that we get more relevant training services. Since the majority of the Committee has opted for a different recommendation from the proposers, I shall not spend much time commenting on the proposal. But I'm generally skeptical about grant schemes, impositions and reporting requirements that can become time thieves at the expense of the school's core tasks. Then I have to comment that the majority of the committee asks the government to ensure that the bachelor's in practical and aesthetic subjects qualifies for admission to practical education. The government has wanted to invest in the practical-esthetic subjects of school and teacher training. We believe that the same high requirements must apply to these subjects as to other subjects. From the autumn of 2019, requirements for the master’s degree for admission to PPU are introduced. Derogations apply in the regulation to applicants with a bachelor's degree in performing and creative arts and in the field of sport. However, the government will ensure that applicants with a Bachelor’s degree in all schools, including the practical and aesthetic subjects, can be admitted to the PPU, integrated into a master’s course of more than three years. The government has just reduced a selection to study a bilingual master's degree in practical and aesthetic training. Such training will promote the enhancement of competence in practical and aesthetic subjects at universities and higher education institutions, increase teacher competence in the fields and meet the needs of the school. Of course, the government will comply with the decision of the Storting. However, the consequence of the suspension is that the government's ambitions for practical and aesthetic subjects are not realized to the desired extent. The master’s requirement of the PPU Regulation laid down in 2015 needs to be amended. In the Teacher's Lift, the Master's degree is set as the standard for Norwegian teacher training. Exclusion of a whole group from the national standard is not ambitious on behalf of the disciplines and will not contribute to national empowerment. All teachers in a college shall cooperate on a comprehensive professional offer. Still more have master's degree. High teacher competence and knowledge-based vocational training in practical and aesthetic subjects are important for students' learning outcomes in all subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e822	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e827	I believe that it is absolutely necessary that we address issues related to practical school, practical education, in the Stortinget as well, since the government statement almost does not mention practical education or practical school. As far as teachers are concerned, it is important to have teachers with skills also in the practical-esthetic disciplines, and not unqualified teachers. The 2014 statistics obtained by the Ministry of Knowledge from the Statistical Central Bureau showed that 36 pst. by the teachers of art and crafts, 45 pst. by the teachers in food and health, 40 pst. by the teachers in physical exercise and 34 pst. by music teachers did not meet the competence requirements of practical and aesthetic subjects at the youth level. Does the Council have any indications as to whether the government's actions will meet the demand for teachers in practical-esthetic subjects? And if not, what action does he intend to take to increase the recruitment of teachers in these subjects?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e832	I record that the representative Martin Henriksen has a habit of creating a conflict where there is no basis for conflict. There is broad political consensus in the United Kingdom about the importance of investing in more practical education and that it will be more effective in schools. That is what our government is doing by investing in the profession, by now implementing a trade renewal and through a historical effort to further education for teachers. The way to get more in the practical-esthetic subjects is not to lower the requirements. We believe that we need to have the same ambitions for the practical-esthetic subjects that we have for other subjects. Building skills is important. It is important for the status and it is important for more people to choose this route.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e837	To the state council's comment that I'm going to have the habit of creating a conflict where there is no conflict, one could repeat the Prime Minister's call from earlier today to go back and look at his own posts. I was the head of the AUF when the Council of State was an opposition politician in Stortinget. I have a question about the claim of both detail management and over-management of the school. I have a feeling that the Council of State uses that type of rhetoric when the opposition makes proposals, but not on its own proposals. The cultural school bag is more interactive towards schools than the proposal for practical school bags. It is tempting to ask the Council of State whether, in his view, the cultural school system is the imposition and detailed management of the school, or whether bets such as the real-time community, the language loop and the kind of thing are unnecessary time thieves and over-control of the school. Or is it really that this is a proposal from the opposition – not only in this case, but also in other matters that we have dealt with earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e844	I absolutely believe that the representative has a point. I think all parties are responsible for the fact that the detail management and reporting have become too big. And for that very reason, it's also important that we sometimes put our feet down. It's a lot of fun that the school is going to do. But it's just that if the school is going to run with everything that's fine, the school doesn't get time for the most important thing. I believe that now that we are implementing a trade renewal, where one of the main points is that the teacher should have time to be a teacher, and that the students should have the opportunity to deepen themselves more in the subjects, it is up to us all to have a special responsibility to make sure that we do not always bring new things into the school. Then I admit that we've all done it from time to time. But now we have a plan that we're going to clear up more time for deep learning, and that means we can't put everything that's fine into school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e849	There is, as I said, work going on revising the curricula. As a teacher, I know that the curriculum provides a framework for how the teacher's education is to be set up, and what students should work against learning. But it definitely doesn't define the methods. Vocational training and educational choices help students to visualize a future of work. In Oslo, there is a low proportion of students who are applying for a profession and few who are receiving a job. Does the Council of State see any link between participation in the field of employment and the choice of continuing vocational education?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e854	I'm going to be a little careful to draw that conclusion, and at least now from the pulpit – I don't have a knowledge-based basis to say that. But I have traveled around the country so much that I record that there are major regional differences. In some parts of the country, there is much closer cooperation between work and school, and businesses are better placed to facilitate apprenticeships, because they see that they will keep good boys and girls in the local environment and in the company. So it is clear that the way in which the school owner facilitates employment and how to cooperate with local employment is also of great importance to the recruitment of professionals. Now I am pleased that in the professional field it is going in the right direction, and that is why we are going to strengthen the professional profession. We need more skilled workers in Norway in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e859	Now, it's mainly employment that I have in focus at this entrance. I hear that the Council of State is taking on board the impact of a practical school, but also regards cooperation with working life and other actors as an important element in it. However, I wonder how the Council of State will ensure that we will receive a new gift for employment across the country. And how can teachers be well involved, if necessary, in putting a foundation into the curriculum so that this can be put into practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e864	In the past, the representative has taken up with me the importance of anchoring the renewal of the profession, and that school owners also take that responsibility seriously. After the representative took it up with me in question time, I have taken new initiatives to involve the school owners regionally and locally. I believe that this is an important measure, so that the curricula get real impact when they are implemented. Now we've been in a period of hearings on part of these new components that are going to be in the curriculum, and there's been a tremendous commitment from many teams. The Education Directorate will continue to work on these. So I'm going to be a little careful now to put too strong leadership in that work, but I'm concerned that there's going to be wide involvement and good anchoring in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e870	On 12 March this year the Ministry of Knowledge sent out a consultation on regulatory changes because the Ministry sees the need for a new consultation on the proposal for admission to the PPU. In the case of sport and physical training, no exemption shall be granted for the degree of master’s degree for admission to PPU. The Ministry of Knowledge must have known that there was an appointment from the Committee and must be adopted by a majority today. Therefore, the entire consultation sent out on 12 March seems strange. Does the Minister agree that this consultation will conflict with the majority that will be adopted today? And what will the Minister do on the occasion of the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e877	Let me first stress that this regulation, which is now being consulted, is under the authority of the State Council for Higher Education and Research. She's the one who's constitutionally responsible for that case. But I would also like to point out that it is a little special that the Storting also goes into the detailed management of regulatory work. There is something the size should think about, to what extent you should continue with a detailed management system at the regulatory level. Then, of course, the government, the Department and the Council of State will follow up the majority manifest in the Storting. At the same time, it's our right to hear as well. And it's also our right to be able to point out that we think it's unfortunate if you lower the ambitions of the practical and aesthetic subjects. We believe it is important that we have high ambitions for all subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e886	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e893	I tried to draw before the Council of State would manage to go to the pulpit, but unfortunately I did not. I have something I would like to say in this matter. We agree so much on strengthening the practical and aesthetic subjects at school, on the desire to increase the recruitment of professionals, which could help to do so, and not least on increasing the recruitment of professionals in practical and aesthetic subjects. What has happened in this case now is that this has gone from being a matter of introducing the practical school bag to actually adopting a change in admission requirements for higher education in the PPU. The usual thing is that when we get a proposal for a representative, it is sent to the Council of State, which can be heard, and you can get some more facts in the matter before the committee deals with it. It was not done in what is now about to get a majority to change the recording requirements. We have not received any feedback from the Council of State on this while the committee was sitting and dealing with the matter. I'm pretty sure if we got it, we would get another discussion, where we could also get a more knowledge-based assessment basis. As both Councillor Sanner and I mentioned here earlier today, there is a great deal of work going on in the department to strengthen teacher training for the practical-esthetic subjects. It is now being considered to introduce a five-year practical-esthetic master's degree, which will strengthen teacher training and which will make it easier for teachers in these subjects to become employed at school because they have more than one subject for education. There is a work going on to put in place a three-year master's degree with an integrated PPU course, which will benefit the very group of teachers that the majority here are talking about, namely those who have a Bachelor's degree in a practical-esthetic profession. I wish we had known about this before, and that it could have been part of the committee procedure. I would also like the Committee's members, who are sitting here today, to have the opportunity to take inwards and reflect on the fact that there is a lot of work going on that might be better suited to the very objective of strengthening the teaching and teaching of the practical-esthetic subjects. Once again, that's probably not so often that happens, but it's allowed to hope. My hope is that we can put this proposal on hold, that we can look at the work that is being done. If this does not lead to what the majority wants, you can also bring the proposal up again later.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e906	Like the Sanner Council, I believe that we should have great ambitions on behalf of the practical-esthetic subjects. We need several competent teachers in practical-esthetic subjects. If we are to get to a school with a more practical and varied day-to-day school with a focus on stimulating the creative skills of students, we also need teachers with good competence in these subjects. I showed in my main post how big the challenge with unskilled teachers in the practical-esthetic subjects is, and I noticed that the representative Martin Henriksen was also involved. When the majority today want a bachelor in practical-esthetic subjects to qualify for admission to the PPU, it is a good way to ensure a greater proportion of skilled teachers also in the practical-esthetic subjects. A three-year, non-university education plus the PPU will ensure high-level vocational teachers in the practical-esthetic subjects. This may also help us to maintain important professional environments in the university and higher education sectors, and to train more people in a field that seems to be left to unqualified staff. SV believes it is more important to get teachers with formal qualifications both professionally and pedagogically than to have a master's degree to start at PPU and qualify to become teachers in these subjects at school. So, unlike the representative Kristensen, I would like to stress that this proposal, which now seems to have a majority today, will lead to more competent teachers in practical-esthetic subjects. That's good, that's important, and that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e915	As previous speakers, I would also like to support the intention of the proposers to strengthen the practical work at school. But at the same time, I am pleased that there is a majority in this Chamber who oppose the Workers' Party's proposal to introduce the practical school bag as a national bet that all municipalities are required to follow. As I understand it is also to be included in the scheme that municipalities can apply for funds for local projects. This will again generate bureaucracy both for the department and for us in the municipalities. As a national elected member of the Committee on Growth in a municipality, it is my opinion that the establishment of such a national scheme is not something we need as school owners. What we have very good experience of, on the other hand, is the subject of work that was introduced as a test scheme by the red-green government, and which has now become a well-established electoral profession that 19 000 students take the current year. The centre party has proposed to make this a mandatory offer, which I would encourage more parties than the Center Party and the Christian People's Party to support. In Asker, we have now decided to offer this profession of work to all students in high school, but I am not sure that all municipalities can afford to offer such an offer. There are, after all, a number of costs involved in introducing this subject. Ashes are not particularly known for being a poor municipality, but I imagine that there may be quite a number of other municipalities that see it as a challenge, linked to the economy they have today. That is why we are proposing a compulsory scheme for this subject, which, of course, must also be financed from the same date. In our local meeting with school leaders and teachers, there is a great deal of emphasis on having the best possible framework to provide individualised education, including in the child and middle classes. This is not least important if we are to succeed in our local objective of early action. It is also paradoxical that the place of practical-esthetic subjects in primary school has been reduced from 20 p.m. to 12 pst. Fortunately, the size has decided to ask the government to present a plan for strengthening the practical aesthetics of schools in the short and long term. One step along this path will be to adopt today the proposal that has been promoted, where a request from the government ensures that the bachelor in practical and aesthetic subjects qualifies for admission to practical education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e928	Today's debate is initially fairly coherent, but when teachers' skills are taken up, I feel like I'm taking the floor again. It's important for me to point out that the Center Party doesn't believe that only the teachers' competence is a limiting factor for development and improvement in school. We don't just think that it's teacher education that determines how practical and individually adapted teaching is. The design of the school is purely physical and organisational in order not to mention the economic space for action. In view of the discussion of competence, I would like to refer to my visit to Rogaland yesterday. There I was visited, among others. Vigrestad school, which cooperates with other schools in the neighbourhood to provide vocational training and educational choices with real experience and the impression of working life. Among other things, with construction and TIP, which they have in secondary education, students in a separate room and with a separate teacher are given a test and are given real impressions that they can take into account when making a choice for further training. The challenges they face there are not that teachers are not competent, but that the teacher who has professional competence and PPU cannot, unfortunately, be employed as a specialist in high school. Here we see the challenges of regulation, which the Council of State can hopefully bring back to the ministry. I believe that we must of course have a knowledge-based basis when we go into this debate, but the Stortinget sees it as its responsibility to go in here and participate and influence the premises to make the school well-equipped to take care of the practices of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e941	One of my favorite paragraphs is the purpose paragraph of the Training Act. It expresses a broad knowledge view. All students need basic skills to master the rest of their schooling, but students also need to learn to acquire new drugs, be creative, experience creative and work in a multidisciplinary way. It requires good practical skills. The government is running, as several have pointed out, with several measures to ensure this. We're going to recruit several qualified teachers for practical-esthetic subjects. We set up a practical electoral profession in high school. We further develop the profession, which gives students experience in various professional fields, and we provide more teachers in the practical and aesthetic fields of continuing training. Here I would just like to stress to the previous speaker, from the Central Party, that it is not a matter of belief on the competence of teachers is important. It is research-based that it is important, also within the practical-esthetic disciplines. We share the intention behind the Labour Party's proposal, but I think this proposal is somewhat unfortunate, especially because we are in the process of a major trade union renewal. It is quite right that we have the Cultural School Bag, but I would like to stress that one of the lessons from Reform 97 was that we do not develop Norwegian school policy in the long term by instructing all schools and teachers to carry out one particular teaching scheme. We cannot have a school policy based on the fact that policymakers have been in one school, for example. in Oslo, and see that they do something good, and then it is decided that it should be done everywhere. I understand the temptation, because here it's just a desire to create good practical skills. But it is such proposals that, in total, narrow down the academic judgement of teachers and contribute to more drug abuse in school. It's the school and the teachers who know best how to do this, whether it's at the practical school bag, whether it's Young Entrepreneurship, whether it's the research project 'Why?' that I went to the Grefsen school this weekend, or other learning activities. That is why the most important thing we can do, is to ensure good skills, access to good examples and to spread them to more municipalities and schools, good professional communities in schools, and not least to implement the subject of vocational renewal and not to add more to the timetables of schools. That is what is the main purpose of the renewal of the profession, namely to allow more teachers to vary teaching, to use different pedagogical methods and practice when there are too many objectives of competence and learning objectives. Finally, I just want to stress that I don't think the solution to strengthening practical-esthetic subjects is to reduce the requirements for teachers' qualifications in the subjects. If you think that practical-esthetic subjects are as important as other subjects, you should also equal those requirements. So, in reality, there's going to be a weakening of the large number of people now adding up, and I hope we can maybe change the voting in a few hours, because I think it's the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e954	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e970	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five series of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e979	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation during the examination of the proposal for a representative on the requirements of religious and life views in relation to public support. Proposal providers address important themes. The Committee agrees with the proposers that freedom of belief and the right to practise religion do not belong solely to the private sphere. It is also a public matter. In particular, this applies when religious and life-seeking communities receive public support. The Committee notes that the proposers believe that transparency, representation and democracy should be required in the different religious and life-view communities, and that this is mainly the background to the proposals. The majority of the Committee has also, in a different way, referred to a number of points in which they agree with the proposers, but do not support the proposal for a representative, and I believe that the respective parties will explain why it has been concluded in the case. We in the Center Party are e.g. in writing. - (FR) We agree absolutely with the proposers that we must be able to make demands on religious communities. Religion is no longer a private matter when it has influence and ringing effects far beyond the private sphere. The proposers therefore address an important issue in their proposal for a representative, because in Norway, the right to religious practice is high, and yes, the subsidy scheme for a variety of religious communities is good. Not many countries can point to a system of subsidies as good and as rough as ours. In other countries life is likely to be at risk if one belongs to another or wrong faith, or expresses opinions that differ from the religion in question. That's how lucky we are in Norway. Here we have respect and tolerance for religious practice. But while we're cheering on our arrangements, that doesn't mean they can't get any better. The proposers travel, inter alia: some important questions of principle in its proposal for a representative. In particular, it concerns the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 on the representation of women and the election of representatives to govern through democratic processes. I believe it is incredibly important that the State has an active role to play in promoting equality and democracy in all areas of society, including in religious and life-seeing societies. When this with equality is not necessarily very clear in some religious and life-viewing societies, it obviously demands that as a society we take action. At the same time, I believe that we need to take decisions based on sound knowledge. We should, among other things, know how we can reverse a negative development if we're going to decide whether – in this case – to set requirements. It would therefore have been very useful to record different religious and life views on why women are under-represented, before we land on which requirements to change that status. It would also have been useful with contributions from different religious and life views to the other proposals promoted in the case. So I should have liked more people to have something to contribute to the work on these proposals, for example. by taking part in the hearing of the Committee held in January. Luckily, the Cooperation Council provided for religious and life-viewing societies, and they came with absolutely useful input. I share, among other things: their views that fragmentation of the work currently being done on this very area by the Ministry of Culture could be unfortunate. The Ministry has announced that there will be a new law on religious and life views. In addition, the Department is currently working on its own keynote on religious and life views policy. The centre party would therefore like to await the consideration of the issues raised by the representative proposal today until the proposal and the large-scale notification arrive. So we do not support the proposal, but we look forward to contributing to the problems, particularly those mentioned in the No. 1 and 2 are promised when the notification and the proposition are to be addressed by the Committee, and hopefully with many good contributions to the content of both the proposition and the big message from different religious and life views.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1002	First, I would like to congratulate Trine Skei Grande on his ministerial post. I look forward to good cooperation between the representatives of the Labour Party and the new minister. Norway has a Christian and humanistic heritage. This legacy is to be taken with us in the face of today's diverse societies. For the Workers' Party, freedom of faith is a human right. At the same time, the freedom to believe and exercise its religion stands side by side with the freedom not to believe and to convert, renounce or criticize religion. Religion is not just a private matter for each of us. It is also a public issue in terms of financial support from the public, when the belief and life-view societies contribute to the welfare of society through voluntary communities, or when some are subjected to coercion or repression in the name of religion. It is a fact that the religious and life-view societies of many people, and in all parts of the country, constitute important communities. They have an impact on belonging and identity and may be anchored for voluntary involvement in the community. When belief and life views can be so important to individuals, the transparency and outlook of these societies are equally important to the big society. In most other areas of our society, we demand democracy, openness and representation. In the Workers' Party, we believe that the time has come to do the same for the faith and the view of life. We stress that such requirements should safeguard freedom of belief and not interfere with the theology of the faith and view of life. This is the basis for the matter we are dealing with now. The Workers' Party has wanted to give clear signals to the government's work on the revision of Creed and Life View legislation and the alerted Creed and Life View message, based on the report of the Steelsett Committee of 2013. We also see the possibility of having a positive impact on the work of the religious and life views through the debate in the wake of our proposal. In particular, in some areas, the government's response to quite obvious challenges has surprised us through the committee reading: The first point concerns equality. In the light of the mega-debate and quite obvious gender equality challenges, both attitudes and reality, the government in its letter to the Stortinget on 1 December 2017 states that the Ministry will not propose a legal condition for gender equality grants. This is justified by the possibility of raising legal and other questions. Here, the right-wing government shows its true face when it comes to equality - fine words and lack of action. According to Storting's investigation section, it would be legitimate to demand a certain proportion of women in governments of religious communities. Reference is made to both the Equality Act and the Women's Discrimination Convention. In addition, Article 9 of the ECHR provides for the right to restrict freedom of religion in order to protect the rights and freedoms of others. The second point concerns democracy. When the Stortinge treated the relationship between state and church, the Church's democratic process was emphasized. As elsewhere in society, we emphasise democracy and openness – and so did we in that debate. Getting a practice in line with democratic values in all religious and life-view societies meets surprising opposition from the government – despite the fact that the requirement covers only governmental agencies that manage state support, and not bodies that take a stand on theological issues. For the Workers' Party, it has been very important to stress the need to contribute to ensuring in the ongoing legal work that divorce under Norwegian law is respected and that the emergence of religious courts is discouraged. That the government chooses to refer these challenges to the fact that belief and life views can be affected by provisions on violations of the rights and freedoms of others, without specifically mentioning the issues in question, is, in our view, not sufficient. Last but not least, reference is made to the points made by the proposers. 5, where proposals are requested to require persons who come to Norway to practice as religious leaders to have or acquire knowledge of the religious advisory role in the face of violence in close relations, exile experiences and central values in Norwegian society. Here the government refers to ongoing work in several departments following the request decision No. 612, and we expect the intentions to be met. In the case of points. 6, the requirement for a social contract for integration work in supported faith and life-viewing societies can only be surprised that the government does not see the value of such work. In doing so, I take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is behind the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1044	The representative of Kari Henriksen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1049	In 2017, the government sent out a proposal for a new law on religious and life views at the consultation deadline at the end of last year, and several of the elements of the proposal we are debating today have already been discussed or included in the consultation note. The right considers that it is not appropriate to deal with parts of the scheme and measures, which will be described in a completely new law of belief and of life, until the responses to the hearing have been reviewed and the law has been fully promoted to the Stortinget. The government's right of initiative is shifted in the practice of this magnificence, where the opposition delivers representative proposals for already alerted cases from the government to the Stortinget. In this case, the opposition wanted to advance the outcome of the treatment into a new law on religious and life-view societies, where the state’s financial support for religious and life-view societies would be used as a tool to achieve political goals. The proposals put forward by the proposers are in breach of the right’s commitment – just to ensure that the right to self-determination is effective in all religious and life-view societies. The use of economic instruments by the State to direct legal activity under the auspices of religious and life- views must be assessed separately. While it is important to work towards the active participation of more women in the leadership of religious and life views, the Right is sceptical about imposing more stringent equality requirements on religious communities than those resulting from the Gender Equality Act. Access to purely administrative governing bodies in religious communities is not permitted for women under Section 6 of the Gender Equality Act. Requirements for religious communities must take due account of freedom of belief and of life and the requirement of non-discrimination, and the Right looks forward to these issues being addressed in the keynote of the policy of belief and of life and in the new law on religious and life views. The consultation note on the Law on Creeding and Life-Sighting Societies includes discussions on whether to consider the use of specific grants to stimulate in-house work on gender equality in the religious communities, and all religious and life-sight societies shall comply with Norwegian legislation on marriage and divorce. The proposal for a new law on religious and life-sight societies which has been consulted underlines this obligation for religious communities to comply with Norwegian law that religious or life-sight societies that carry out, encourage or express support for acts that constitute a serious violation of the rights and freedoms of others may be refused grants. It is important that religious leaders working in Norwegian society have the necessary knowledge to perform this role in a good way, and in the Jeløya Platform the government commits itself to following up the establishment of an official Norwegian education of religious leaders from relevant religious communities. In the platform, the government clearly expresses that it will provide religious leaders with knowledge of the religious leadership role, democracy, equality, negative social control, violence and abuse, radicalisation and violent extremism. The notion that administrative leaders and key personnel should also be given knowledge of this should be taken into account in the further work on the law and dissemination of the field of faith and life. In the consultation note to the new law on religious and life-view societies, the government also makes clear the obligations of the religious and life-view societies through a separate provision that those promoting the claim for grants should confirm in writing that they are aware of and will comply with the conditions of the grant. It is important to demand this from the religious communities, but we should not reduce the religious communities to a means of achieving other societal gains, such as integration. In order to achieve other societal changes or to be instruments for integration and gender mainstreaming, life and religious communities should not be reduced to a means of achieving other social changes. The right will therefore vote in favour of the non-adoption of the draft representative, in line with the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1068	I will not hide that it is an interesting matter that has been promoted by the Workers' Party here. There are important fundamental considerations that need to be taken into account here, because principles of freedom of belief and the extent to which democratic decisions intervene in the internal lives of individual organisations are partly opposed to each other. I'm not going to draw the historical lines too deep and too far in this debate, but it's important to notice the long line of – let's call it – the draw between church and state. It's the same dragonfight that's going on in most societies. Religious and life-seeking societies in most places have demanded, and achieved, a high degree of autonomy from the laws and regulations that apply in society elsewhere. This speciality of the faith and lifestyle societies has been reduced in some parts of our age. This is because society has become much more secularised and also gained a greater degree of diversity than before. For me, representing a liberalist party, it is especially important to find the right balance. The individual's freedom of belief will at some point meet the limitations of society. These limitations are not there for themselves, but to ensure the freedom of other individuals. It is when individuals organize themselves in religious and life-view societies, that some parts of how these societies work may no longer be said to be a matter of faith. For some of us, it is quite special to see that the emergence of some belief and life-view societies challenges fundamental values in our society. Some communities, for example, are challenging. gender equality and equal pay between individuals. In some other countries, we see religious courts growing. This is especially true in matters of family and inheritance rights. In Norway, too, we see indications that such questions are settled outside the ordinary judicial system. This is a dangerous development, and so the Progress Party does not want it to be, because that means that individuals are denied their equality and freedom. The fact that others use religion, in addition to social pressure, to deny their rights to individuals is totally unacceptable. I would also like to highlight the question of how some religious leaders perceive their role, especially those who initially have little knowledge and understanding of Norwegian society. It's absolutely essential that these get into and understand the basic values of our culture, our way of life and our values. It lists that religious leaders must have knowledge of democracy, equality, negative social control, violence and abuse, radicalisation and violent extremism. The list could certainly be longer, but the important thing is that the religious leaders are aware that their function is not only within the walls of the religious and life-view society. They must understand that they have their place because religious and life-sight societies exist in a democratic, humanist and pluralist western country. Everyone agrees that the theological questions are issues of faith. But there are a number of other aspects of how these societies work that are not theological and therefore cannot be said to be issues of faith. Such heavy weightings are best treated when time is taken for a good and robust procedure. As the proposers know, the government has been working on these issues for the longest time. So once again in this Chamber we are dealing with a slightly premature proposal for a representative. The opposition is clearly on a line where everything the government is already working on is being the subject of representative proposals. So it is a pleasure that you have found together in the setting, but especially in this case, it is unwise to make hasty decisions – and we do not. Important principles stand up against each other. It is in the utmost consistency that there is a balance between important aspects of democracy and how our society is built. Furthermore, in the setting, important issues of governance, equality and other are also problematic and reflected. I must say that I am addressing the further debate on the government's consultation notes and the subsequent debate in time as follows.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1085	It is right and proper to make demands for equality and transparency in all areas of society. It has a long tradition to do so, and it is through groundbreaking feminist policy that we have come so far in terms of gender equality in Norway. But we're not yet in the goal. Women are still systematically underrepresented in many places in Norway, for example: among the chief executives, in this room and in the religious and life views. I and SV believe that quotaing is not an end in itself, but a proper tool to correct this structural imbalance of power between women and men. For men allowances men initially, and we have to even that out. Therefore, SV supports proposals on quotas and equality of opportunity in relation to the religious and life views – because here, as in most other areas of society, we need an active gender equality policy. It is also reasonable to contribute to more transparency and democracy in the belief and life-view societies. It can help to make the development that is already happening, stronger down there on the floor where people are working on this. We need to support those who work for a more inclusive, open and equal religious community, and demands for transparency can contribute to that work. But there are some challenging fundamental questions in this matter. It is important to me that the State pursue an actively supporting belief and life-view policy. In a pluralistic society like ours, it is necessary to have a state that treats all the inhabitants and contributes to making the right to belief and to the exercise of life real. The diversity of beliefs and views of life in the population must be reflected in the political, economic and legal non-discrimination of religious and life views. These are the general principles. Equally important is that the right to exercise their religion is an important human right. It's not just a speck, because the world has a long history of authoritarian regimes that intervene in the individual's lives and prevent something so private and important for people like religious practice. For SV as a liberal party it is therefore essential to protect the right to exercise their religion. Therefore, SV does not support any proposal that regulates or in practice prohibits religious practice. On the other hand, we believe that the proposals we are supporting today are entirely in line – firstly because these requirements are not imposed as a ban or a ban, but as a requirement for public support. There's a fundamentally important difference. Secondly, the requirements for women’s presentation and transparency specify that they only apply to non-theological organs. Why is that important? Yes, because politicians never have to regulate theology. Then we break the limit to protect the religious practice of the individual. A worrying trend that can challenge freedom of religion in the long term, I think, is the trend in using belief and life-view societies as a tool in more and more areas, especially in terms of integration. Like everything, the religious and life-view societies must be integration measures. I mean, it's going to be to take the role of belief and life-view societies too far. We cannot reduce the belief and life-view societies to an instrument to achieve the ever-changing goals of governments. Therefore, we do not support the Workers' Party's proposal to commit to active integration work all faith and life-viewing societies receiving public support. It's a very obligating sentence. It will in practice force the religious communities to do something far more than what they are for, and I also ask questions about how to control it. It is important to have a balanced and principled approach to issues of belief and outlook, but never compromise on the right to equality and democracy. There is SV's position on this issue, and that is how it has always met changing trends in the public debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1106	It is in the proposal for a representative that several proposals should be discussed and discussed in this Chamber. That is why I very much look forward to the government promoting a comprehensive legislative proposal in Stortinget, as well as a big message of a comprehensive belief and life-view policy. Nevertheless, I would like to attach some perspectives to the proposals put forward in the proposal for a representative. In creating new legislation, it is important that we do so with respect for the very nature of the different life-view societies. This must also be demonstrated in the financial instruments. But we also have to consider setting some more requirements. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State wrote in its reply to the Committee that the Department will assess the means of influencing women's position in religious communities. One of the proposals being promoted is that persons coming to Norway to practice as religious leaders are required to have or acquire knowledge of the religious advisory role in the face of violence in close relations, exile experiences and central values of Norwegian society. A lot is already done in this area, and I share the expectation that several signals that this work will be followed up. Because it is important that religious leaders are well acquainted with the Norwegian context and the values on which we build our society. The left has fought for a long time for its own imam education here in the country. The Jeløya platform states that the government will ensure that an official Norwegian education for religious leaders is established and worked on. This allows all religious communities to train leaders who possess both the religious and the cultural competences necessary to practice in Norway. Everyone has the right to believe – or not to believe. In Norway, we no longer have a church of state, and it is not the State’s role to discriminate or favour the view of life. At the same time, faith and vision of life are one of the most important things in many people's lives. Our values characterize our lives, and although the individual's view of life is personal, religion and the outlook of life have a place in society and in the public debate. That is why I am pleased that there will be a broad debate on this in the light of both the notification and the legislative proposal. For such issues, a good and broad debate deserves to be held. Therefore, the Left will vote in line with the Committee's recommendation on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1119	Having expectations that even religious communities are setting an equal footing on the agenda, I feel quite reasonable and uncontroversial, provided that no public support is used to achieve any political objectives. As far as I am concerned, I fully agree with the Supreme Court that we must allow religious communities to be a religious community and not a political action, whether it be integration work or other policy areas. The respect for religious communities being allowed to be just religious communities is something we have to fend for. A little curiosity: I remember listening to the radio in 1993. Then these words were said by Minister of Church, Education and Research Gudmund Hernes: The time is ripe. The decision has been made. Norway has its first female bishop. It was Rosemarie Köhn, my former teacher at the practical theological seminary on the Blind. One happy day – but then we should not forget that it had been over 30 years since we got our first female priest. So the equality work is something that the Norwegian Church has been working on, but we see that it can take time. Especially in areas where there is also a tendency to be a matter of theology, politicians should be extremely careful about interfering. This was a little curious about our own story about our people's church – that equality has been worked on, but it's a long-term and often a little slow matter. The Christian People's Party will not support these proposals, although there are proposals here for which the Christian People's Party feels, among other things. the establishment of an equality pot for which religious communities can apply. I think that is a good idea, and I hope that the Council of State will consider it in what is announced to be presented. We look forward to getting a case to the Grand Council in terms of funding religious communities, but also the broad debate that we have been promised, based on the report of the Steel Committee, which will give us an opportunity to discuss faith and outlook on life in its broadest sense. This is an important area for the Christian People's Party. We really want what has to do with faith and vision of life to be transparent in order to be able to discuss in public space. This means so much to so many people, and there's nothing to privatize. We look forward to having both the debate on funding and the big debate on faith and vision of life and their place in society. The Christian People's Party has itself set up its own adhocut election that is working on this right now, and we're going to finish it in the spring. We get a lot of good input, and I can promise that the Christian People's Party will take an active part in these debates in the future. But we do not support the proposal as it exists, because we believe that the work that the government has started is important for the government to complete. And then we take the debate when we get the cases. But, as I said, I just want to end by saying, having expectations that faith communities too are putting equality on the agenda, I think it's reasonable, and I think it's uncontroversial.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1133	The next speaker is Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1138	It was a little stunned that the president said just that, because that's the first time I have a case for treatment here, and I ran it, even though I felt that it was just before the gong had intended to throw me out! But it's very stubborn to be here too as the Council of State; this is a pulpit I have great respect for. I'm glad that we're constantly having a debate about equality and tolerance in society, and that we're constantly looking at what means we can use to move on. After all, we have come a long way in Norway. If we look at the picture that hangs behind us in the staging room, I think the mariners must have been amazed if they had seen beyond the hall, those who have created the Basic Law, which is the background for this. We are now working in the government with a new message and a new law in this field. I am very pleased that the majority of the committee has expected to see all this in context, because the whole field of faith and life has been characterized by discussing it from different angles and at different times. That means that you can basically be very free of faith, but often they forget the points when you're going to discuss it from other angles. That's why I think the Storting will get a better discussion if we have ahead of us both the principles and how we're going to do it practical in a law for the religious communities. So there's a debate I'm looking forward to. We are going to take with us the recordings that have been made in the debate and in the discussion here, in the consideration of the matter that comes to Stortinget. Freedom of belief and life are fundamental human rights and matters that we basically quickly agree on. The general rule is that the State should not intervene. But of course you have to follow Norwegian law. It also means equality law and discrimination law, which we have in place. But we also have to have equality for the law. And I think it's an exciting discussion that I don't think is well enough evaluated in its breadth, when you start discussing this with religious courts. For what are ‘courts’, what are ‘religious’ and what are ‘cultural’? For hundreds of years in Norway, we have had ethnic groups who have had their own courts – within their ethnic group – and I think that believing that this is just something that comes from outside now, and just challenging Norwegian legislation now, is a little simple and little insightful way of looking at it. What we're going to do is that all people should have the opportunity to exercise their free choice in Norway, anyway, and we're going to make sure that the legitimacy of our courts is about something other than what I think you're talking about here in many contexts. The only legitimate court system we have on the side of our own is probably the sport, which has its own court system, which also has its legitimacy from Stortinget. For me, it's important that we have a principle approach, and that we have not only a bottom-up view that holds ground, but also a time-by-time view. That's why it's important to have the principle approaches and the law next to each other in dealing with this. I am pleased with the position and hope that we will have an exciting and enthusiastic debate with many suggestions on how to improve the law in this area, so that we create a common law that everyone can finally stand behind, and that treats our religious communities in the same way, sail if we all know that the Norwegian Church will have a special position in this law and message work as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1155	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1160	During the examination of the church agreement, the then representative of the podium, Trine Skei Grande, stated that the electoral system in the Church should ensure the breadth and not make it possible to overturn elections. That, I think, is one of the ultimate examples of an electoral system in a religious community having to be representative. What makes the Council of State send out a letter saying that gender representation should not be heard, and what makes the Council of State not paying attention to it in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1167	I understand that the Labour Party has decided that I do not place any emphasis on this. However, with regard to the law and decisions taken in the Norwegian Grand Prix that I have to deal with, the law of faith and life does not allow equality requirements to be imposed in addition to what the Equality Act does. Then we have to change the law in this field. You have the same law for religious communities as for everyone else. The question is whether to impose stricter requirements on religious communities than on others. If you have an employee, you are covered by the employer's obligation and the annual report must be reported. What you're doing here is creating a code that also affects the small ones that fall under non-governmental organisations and that we're not willing to regulate in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1174	I think that when the Council of State says in the letter that gender equality is not to be heard, and that there is no way of putting those requirements ahead, the Storing Survey has said that there is no obstacle to it, either in the Equality and Discrimination Act or in Article 9 of the EMC. In any case, I should like the Council of State to say that the proposal will be assessed in law. Because if there are different legal perceptions in the Stortinget and in the government's apparatus of what requirements we can set in relation to gender equality, we should get a clarification of that. This is a recommendation to the Minister to include it in the work of the Minister when this matter is to be dealt with in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1181	Yeah, we'd love to. It seems to me that the question is asked in a slightly different way. My message is that the law we have passed here, also applies to religious communities, in the same way. But in some cases, these are voluntary organisations that we have not regulated, and then we have to have a larger framework and put it within the equality law if we're to be able to regulate it too. I would like to look at the investigations that have been made, and what questions have been raised, and then we have to decide whether we are willing to regulate religious societies differently from us, for example. regulates other non-governmental organisations in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1186	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1193	The Workers' Party will create a social contract that obliges active integration work in all religious and life-viewing communities receiving public support, and we want it to be a proposal requiring at least 40 pst. representation of women in governing bodies. In fact, we now have a government with the Progress Party and the Right in the head that we do not think should call for active equality and integration work in, for example. religious communities as mosques. «Treatment and life views should not be reduced as a means of achieving other societal changes or as instruments of integration and equality policy», states a Right-wing Representative. I think that is sad reading and politics. The interesting thing is that in the public debate on this proposal, the Progress Party and the Right have thought that all proposals have been taken care of – why promote something that is already coming? Now the truth is here. The government will not make demands, for example: to the Muslim religious communities, which now have some 153 000 members and receive millions in State aid. We're lucky to live in an amazing country like Norway. If you are lucky and have been given the opportunity to come to Norway, you need to accept the most important values on which Norway is based. It is freedom, democracy and equality. The freedom we have in Norway has not come about by itself. The struggle for freedom has always been held in Norway: the fight for workers' rights, the fight for equality. We have to be clear on what kind of values we want the Norwegian society to build on. If you live in Norway, you also have to become a part of Norway. The Labour Party believes that Muslim religious communities should work with integration. It means no to choral travel, no to social control and no to religious courts. They're going to report, they're going to open up, they're going to work closely with municipality, police and child protection. They shall be clear that migrant women are to learn Norwegian and participate in the labour market, and this shall be repeated and repeated in their meeting rooms. Drying down demands for equality and democratisation towards religious communities is nothing new. That we have Norwegian priests taking public settlement against homophobia is good. The fact that we have female priests and female bishops shows that we have come a long way in Norway. And what would have been better than if we in the future got a female imam in the gender equality country of Norway? The Labour Party is ready to make tough and clear demands, and we are going to be uncompromising in our most important values: freedom, democracy and equality. That is why I am proud of the proposals we are now making, and I think it is sad that a majority will not be there to support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1208	As I read the debate, there is a consensus that one should be able to make some demands, but there is a disagreement as to where the requirements should be and at what level they should apply. I find it a little strange that a person argues that one has a equality law, that one has legislation today, and then one has to use state instruments to punish, but one should not use state instruments to stimulate. If the principle is that the state should not intervene, I find it a little difficult to understand. We are no longer the most equal country in the world, among other things. Because we have great challenges with women's representation. We have major challenges in religious environments, including: in my own part of the country, where religious organisations do not have women in administrative positions or as members of the governing bodies of the church. The representative Becquerad was inside the story, and it sounded so pretty, it sounded so little powerful, but that story is also full of thorns. There are women who have stood up and really struggled in spite of laws, despite fine words. Now the ball is being passed on to the ministry after the decision that is being taken today, but I think it is a neglect if the government does not take seriously that there is still a great deal of disparity and lack of democracy in many religious communities in Norway today. It is historically an important job The Norwegian Church has done. They have taken the signals, but the debate on the church-state relationship took place for many decades, as the Christian People's Party's representative said. At all times, there was an underlying pressure and expectations expressed in both legislation, directives and procedures for the Church to comply with its democratic principles upon which Norway is built. There was a need for us not to make the same demands on other religious communities that we have actually made to our own church. I recommend going in and reading the common position that was written when the church case was being debated, where all the parties basically agreed that there had to be demands for electoral arrangements, for representativeness and for democracy in the Church. We should extend that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1219	In the article by the representative Gharahkhani of the Workers' Party, it becomes very clear what an instrumental position the Workers' Party has on religious and life-view societies. I believe that we politicians are responsible for strengthening equality, promoting inclusion and promoting integration, and the Right believes that this is not something we can simply transfer to the religious and life-view societies. Nevertheless, we must expect that all religious and life-view societies also follow Norwegian law. This will be a debate on the fight for freedom and democracy, and I understand that the representatives who have promoted the proposal are impatient, but this cannot be used as an instrument for achieving political objectives. We in the Committee should wait until we have the matter of religious and life-viewing societies, so that we can have an overall assessment of all religious and life-view societies. But the government has said that it wants to make demands, and we do that by committing ourselves to the Jeløya Declaration, to introduce an official Norwegian education of religious leaders from relevant religious communities. In this way, people are involved in giving knowledge to religious leaders about important things in our society, about the religious leadership role, about democracy, equality, negative social control, violence and abuse, radicalisation and violent extremism. And in this way, religious leaders in all religious communities are expected to gain a greater understanding of their role in Norwegian society, which is a democratic society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1227	Just a brief remark: it really wasn't meant to be trying to glorify the equality struggle, which has also been going on in the Norwegian Church. When I pointed to Gudmund Herner’s famous words, I was at the same time careful to point out that over 30 years had passed since we got our first female priest, and the women’s priestly question has been debated for decades. Even when I was studying theology in the 1980s, this was a fiercely discussed topic. So I know that here there's a lot of fights to get to where we are today, and we're definitely not going to admit that, but it was the long story, from the 1950s to 1993, that was the point of my post. Otherwise, I fully agree with Kari Henriksen in her description of the church-state conciliation here at Stortinget. There were demands for, among other things: development of democracy, to electoral arrangements. All the games got behind it. But we have to assume that in many of these discussions you also break your back, and you can quickly break your hand with what has to do with freedom of faith, what has to do with theology. I know that the Workers' Party is very careful to say that these proposals should not be proposals where you go in and think something about the theological questions. But we must always have it in mind when we discuss such things as this, that we must show respect for the fact that it is also something that politics cannot sort out. As I said, I have expectations that religious communities too are working on equality issues, but we need to know what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1236	The representative, Kari Henriksen, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1241	I just need to say that our proposals – all our proposals – are not final proposals. We ask the government to come back, but the debate sounds like we are adopting proposals here and now. All our proposals are based on asking the government to come back. At that time, it would have been quite possible for the government to come up with the counter-representations they have related to what has been the subject and intervention in the debate. I just needed to say that we have asked the government to come back with opinions and issues dealing with these important issues in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1248	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1264	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given by members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1275	Let me first of all thank the Committee for its constructive work. Most acknowledge that Sunday is a different day for many families. At the same time, many work on Sundays, but for most people this is a day off. In the proposal, the proposers ask the government to consider that the current provisions of the Holiday Peace Act should remain firm, in its further follow-up to the sample which has investigated the issue of Sunday open shops. The Committee also refers to the decision of the Grand Duchy from January of this year, which reads as follows: ‘The government is asked not to liberalise the rules on Sunday trade. This so that no more may work on public holidays.» The Minister for Culture, in his reply to the Committee, stated that NOU 2017:17 On a Sunday?, was delivered on 14 December 2017, and that it was sent at three months of public consultation on 25 January this year. It is important for the Committee that these processes be seen in a context. The Committee sees § 5 as having significant weaknesses and agrees that some changes should be considered when the government submits a case to the Stortinget. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee is now in favour of not adopting the proposal for a representative. Since the NOU in question is not being consulted, the Right is pleased that the consideration of the draft representative is now waiting for the Government to forward its case to the Stortinget. The NOU has an overall and principleal approach to Sunday trade and the consequences of any changes. Today's Sunday trading system is inconclusive. Some shops can stay open on Sundays and holidays. This applies to kiosks and grocery stores less than 100 m2, service stations less than 150 m2, shops on campsites, shops in areas defined by the County as tourist resorts, shops selling flowers and gardening goods, establishments selling local furniture and souvenir goods and shops at airports. We can shop on Sundays, the big garden centres are constantly expanding their range of products, and the countyers have different opinions about what are local tourist sites. Many who live along the border with Sweden often use Sunday for large purchases on the other side of the border. Many of the proposals in the NOU are constructive and not primarily liberalising. The recommendations refer, for example, to: a proposal to keep all independent shops below 150 m2 open. This means that all major shops must remain closed. The majority of the sample also proposes to limit opening hours to church hours, which would mean a total of fewer opening hours than today. The right also wants to preserve the value of Sunday as the other day. In the 2015 SIFO study, 35 pst responded. that they work on Sundays. In the 2017 YS working life barometer, 41 pst replied. that they work sometimes, often or always on Sundays. That is why, in this debate, it is legitimate to ask questions about whom Sunday should be a different day. The opposition writes in a note that it is not very easy to interpret, that neither the decision in the Stortinget nor this proposal for a representative ‘will prevent the government from making proposals for minor adjustments and improvements in the law’. So, on the one hand, the opposition says to base today's provisions on the Law on Holiday Peace, that the rules on Sunday trade should not be liberalised, and that no more should work on public holidays. On the other hand, they open the same door so that there can be adjustments and improvements in the law. We do not need the conclusion of this proposal for a representative to hold Sunday as a different day. What we need is a level playing field, rules that are easier for consumers to deal with, which are easier for the public to enforce, which are more predictable for traders and which take into account the employment situation of employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1308	Last Sunday I was at a football tournament with my grandchildren. That was fun. What I saw was community, and I saw how valuable it is that we have a day that is different from the others. There is a lot to fight for in politics and many important unsolved tasks in our society. I think we agree on that. Opening shops and shopping centres on Sundays, so that people will not shop on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays, is not one of them. Nevertheless, government continues the fight for Sunday open shops. It has already been almost three years since the question of Sunday open shops was sent to the hearing. Then there were nearly 7,000 responses, and they pointed to several negative consequences: increased climate emissions because more people have to go to work, and that there is a threat to small, independent shops because they do not want to afford to stay. Several also reported that liberalisation can deliver more expensive goods to consumers and that costs in the industry will increase. But most importantly, many more people will have to work on Sunday, between 50,000 and 80,000 is estimated. There are quite a number of people in small Norway. They will be deprived of their choice to actually have Sunday as a day off. When people have to work on Sunday, it affects their family life, time for joint activities, for disconnection with the nearest, Sunday dinner with aunt or grandmother in another city, for example. There are many handball matches to be closed and events to be held. With the liberalisation that the government wants, the organizers will risk losing people who are needed to keep these activities going. Some jobs must be kept open on Sundays. There is no political disagreement about this. People can get sick, houses can burn, people can get violent. Some people have to work in order for the community to take care of them, but people are not allowed to act on Sundays. That's why the majority of us are opposed to liberalizing and letting go. A total opposition is that. Most people are. Both the employer side and the employee side. But despite the massive resistance of the people, among others through a general strike, the first in many decades, and in the 2015 hearing, the proposal for a Sunday open air was not abandoned. Instead, after a break in the fight, a sample was put down to answer the question, a question that had given rise to a resounding no answer. It's no-it's actually quite strong yet. The thing is, we have a government that doesn't listen. Instead, it is driven by blind ideology that believes that the right to act on Sundays is more important than that most possible workers get one day to get in, to be together. They argue with freedom of choice, but do not understand that giving any freedom to choose to act takes from others the freedom not to go to work. The Labour Party will have a policy that gives freedom to everyone, not to a few. We have a long tradition in Norway that the social partners are involved in the formulation of policies. In the Norwegian model, it is absolutely vital that we trust each other, that the policy be anchored in those for which it has consequences, and that we simply find the best political solutions. We're getting used to the fact that the government of Solberg doesn't listen to the parties when they develop politics. It is serious, and it weakens the Norwegian model, which the government stubbornly claims they are in favour of. In the question we are discussing today, the lack of ability to listen is striking. Neither employers nor employees want more shops to remain open on Sundays, but there is no dampening of government liberalisation. So we're on the team with the people, the trade unions and the industry itself. We will preserve Sunday as a different day, a calmer day, a day off for most. Therefore, the undersigned and the Workers' Party saw the need to make proposals to keep Sunday as a free day for as much as possible. We see that the law can be adjusted and improved on some points. The proposal does not prevent this, but we will put our feet down for the grand liberalisation that the government wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1327	Sunday is a different day. It's always been, and it's probably always going to be. Nevertheless, today we are dealing with this proposal for a representative law from the Labour Party, because – I kept saying – it should be. But it is, in fact, completely independent of what liberalisation we have done and will do in the law. To a large extent, it can be said that in Norway we are keeping the rest day holy, although some people obviously have to be at work, for example. to take care of life and health. I believe it is time to wind up the last remainder of the opening hours in Norway, and that we also abolish the so-called Brustad-bua. When I and several other members of the Greatness who are present here today grew up, society closed at 0 p.m. 16 a.m. and 4 p.m. 13 on Saturdays. In the cities they often had a long day until noon. 17 Thursdays and in some cases until 7 p.m. 19th@item: inlistbox I remember that reaching the store before closing time could be a challenge for parents who were at work, but food on the table was supposed to be, so when opening times were liberalized, there was a new world for a lot of people. With one, it became life in the former folklore city center also in the afternoon and early evening. During the 1980s, we had a more open society. The Progress Party and the Right were at the forefront of this development – for freedom, transparency, flexibility and strengthening consumer choice. The current Minister of Consumer and Administration Astrid Gjertsen became the symbol of opening up strict, unnecessary and immoderate regulations from a time gone. As the Council of State, she worked to simplify legislation and streamline management, liberalise the housing market and, above all, extend the opening hours. Many should today send good thoughts her way, for it was her campaign, 'Open Society', which made everyday life easier for people most. However, the greatest winner of those who wanted freedom was won by the decision taken in the 2002–03 Grand Prix when the opening time regulation in Norway was effectively removed from all days except on public holidays and on 1 May and 17 May. On these days an exception was made for, among others. to maintain the so-called Brustad-bua. Many of us live near such Brustad arches and get traded also on Sundays, but I still think there is a meaningless regime we have in the law: you can trade, but not in a store that is larger than the maximum physical constraints of Brustad-bua. What kind of logic is there in that? The Progress Party believes that you have to approximate the theme of opening times from a principle point of view. We believe that supply and demand are better suited than legislation to regulate opening hours, and that this view should be used as a basis for legislation in this area. Experience with the lifting of restrictions on weekdays clearly demonstrates that there is a disappearing small number of Norwegian consumers who want to shop clothes, cars or groceries at noon. 23 a.m. or 23 a.m. 03 at night. But some Sunday trade is and will be, of course. There are even politicians with seats in this room who have expressed themselves as strong opponents of Sunday open shops, but who the press has revealed as Sunday dealers. It was this with life and learning, then. The progress party has always believed that there are many good reasons to allow Sunday-open shops. For a liberal party such as the Progress Party, the importance of ownership and of personal freedom plays a major role. We therefore believe that the individual shopkeeper, in cooperation with his employees, will find good solutions to this, without interference from politicians and bureaucrats. The Progress Party also attaches great importance to flexibility and consumer considerations. First of all, this concerns consumer concerns. More price-conscious consumers can change their patterns of behaviour as they please. In addition, kiosks, local shops and Brustad-buyers have much higher prices for almost all of the goods, compared to grocery stores. I would like to stress that it is about giving employees and shops an option. It's not a requirement that they stay open. The point of departure is that supply and demand are better suited than the law to regulate the opening hours of shops. We want equal treatment and are therefore followers of allowing shops that want it to remain open on Sundays.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1350	Yeah, let Sunday be Sunday. Leave it alone, holiday, holiday. It really is not a ‘must’ that shops should be open even on Sundays. We already live in an overly large consumer society. We consume more, we consume more, we act more – a development that most of us agree that is not exactly supersun, neither for the individual, for society, for the environment, nor for the resources we extract to meet the needs of a so-called overly devouring consumer society. We also live in a ‘fixed track’ high-speed society. Everything passes by us at a fast pace – busy lives, busy weekdays and busy periods from time to time. That's why it's so incredibly important to fence in one day as a common holiday – Sunday. Sunday, as it is today, is also valued incredibly high by many. In a survey conducted by Norsk Gallup in 2015, two out of three Nordics said no to Sunday open shops. Societal economic analysis DAMVAD has otherwise estimated the impact of Sunday open air in Norway. They have come to the conclusion that the turnover in the shops will not increase, but that the industry will also receive 9 billion. kr more in compensation of employees. At the same time, it is believed that more than 22,000 employees in the trade in goods will lose their jobs as a result of closures, among others. those who run the Brustad arches mentioned. Coop, Norway’s Group and the employer’s organisation Working does not consider an additional sales day to be necessary. Of the retail trade, only REMA 1000 want this. I therefore do not fully understand this zeal for the government to open up for Sunday-open shops. There's not a lot of heavy-weight arguments for that. I would also like to remind you that when the Solberg I government proposed the same thing in 2015, there was massive opposition to the proposal. The Ministry of Culture received almost 7 000 hearing replies. The majority of these did not give a green signal for liberalisation, on the contrary. There are several arguments that speak in the direction of no in this case: Sunday as a day off for most people is one of the few common values we have left. I am concerned that we should take care of that. Sunday opens will be a little family friendly, mainly for the shop clerks, who get fewer weekends with the family, but it also gives pressure to family life in general if we are also going to use Sunday for action. What's the next one going to be? Can kindergartens also have Sunday open when more people have to work on Sundays? Furthermore, it gives some kind of false freedom. Neither the customers, the merchants, nor the merchants want the so-called freedom that the government wants to impose on society. This freedom really means freedom. The shops will be pressured to keep open on Sundays even if they don't want to. Sunday-open shops will lead to shop deaths, especially edge shops and shops outside the major centres. We can only see to Denmark. Experience from this shows that on Sunday opening, sales have increased in large shopping centres at the expense of small district shops and urban centres. There is no doubt that the liberalisation of the so-called ‘close’ law in Denmark in 2012 has led to extensive closure of shops in small towns. Shop death in the districts, false freedom, less family and holiday holidays for shop clerks, large payroll costs for shops and a dilution of a common value that our rest day is – that’s not good. I hope the Minister will bring with him our opposition and all the other resistance in the hall today, for this is about much more than Sunday open. It's about what kind of society we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1382	The right to rest and the right to freedom are some important rights that the labour movement has fought for as long as the work movement has existed. It is important to be able to say with the law that you have the right to spend time with the family and the right to rest, because employers will always have an interest in workers working more and extending further. That's what society demands. Leisure is something we have to appreciate and protect about, especially in an increasingly hectic everyday life. That is why it is important to take care of Sunday as a day off for most people. It's also about what kind of work we're going to have, especially when working life gets tougher and pressure on the workforce gets bigger. I am pleased that in January, the Storting firmly stated that it should not be opened to liberalisation and more Sunday trade. That is why the case today has already been won in many ways, and there is no need to adopt the original proposal. But there is a need to establish – as SV and several others do in the setting – that Sunday is now protected, yes, but that we must allow for other adjustments and improvements in the law, and that we are fully open to it in connection with the treatment of NOU 2017:17, when it comes here to the Stortinget. SV is fully open to reasonable simplifications and improvements, and there will be an exciting discussion when the government comes back with a case about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1389	Sunday is a different day in Norwegian society, and it will continue to be. But today there are actually hundreds of Sunday-open shops in many different parts of the country. At the same time, the proportion of shops with exemption or partial exemption from the Sunday-closed shop rule is very unevenly distributed. In 2014, 57 p.m. of the shops in Buskerud exemption, but 0 pst. in Oslo, 0 pst. in Tromsø and 0 pst. in Rogaland. Is that fair? It is proposed that the government should base the current provisions of the Holiday Peace Act in order to follow up the investigation into the issue of Sunday open shops. This is an investigation that is now being consulted. I am interested in hearing what the municipalities and the others involved in this are saying, before we continue to lead the work, because the Left is concerned that decisions should be taken as close as possible to people, at as low a level as possible. We believe the municipalities themselves should decide whether to keep stores open or not. I had hoped – and I hope – that there are several representatives who are concerned about this. It seems strange when it can be said that some shops are closed on Sundays, one of our last common values in Norwegian society. Fortunately, there are far more common values that I think we can all agree that we have in this society, and that in these days are being discussed quite a lot. In the context of this proposal: it has actually been 15 years since the legislation was last revised. I believe that it is time to clear some of these provisions. So I'd like to say that for the Left, it's not a point that everyone should keep open, but that more people should have the opportunity to choose it, and that it should not be a matter for the Storting, but for the local people elected – those who know the municipality, those who know its trading position – because it's actually the ones who are best able to make the assessments for their community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1400	Like most employers, the vast majority of employees, like the majority of the population, the Christian People's Party also believes that it is important that we keep Sunday as a different day when you can do things quite different from what you normally do this week. We don't need another day where we increase the commercial pressure, where we are involved in increasing the purchasing pressure. That is why it is an important matter we are discussing today. I believe that it is a good value to be able to keep Sunday as a rest day for most people. In a note, the opposition, at least the majority of the opposition, says that even though a decision has now been taken in the Stortinget, there is nothing wrong with the government coming back again unless adjustments are made. I think most of us can agree that today's opening and closing laws may not appear to be the world's fairest. I think most of us can agree on that. I think most of us also think that the law we have today, in many ways, is a national compromise, that's what we've landed on. But there may be things in today's opening and closing laws that we can do something about. This is pointed out with garden centres, it is pointed to tourist municipalities and where there are different practices from county to county. I believe that the government would like to come to Stortinget and make adjustments. But what the majority of the Storting does not want is an opening and closing law that goes in a more liberal direction. We do not want even more people to work on Sundays. But that there may be adjustments, we are open to discuss, and there is nothing in the way that the selection and consultation that has been, leads the government to the Stortinget with one thing about it. We in the Christian People's Party are open to discuss that. But we need a day where completely different things are open, where it's open nature, open churches, open cultural events, open families. You need that, over a day with even more commercial pressure. Just a little thought about what has happened in Denmark — one of the consequences is that very many local shops have had to shut down. A large number of elderly and disabled people have lost their local store, and most of the trade is now in the major shopping centres. This is not a desired development in Norway, so I hope that in the future we too will preserve Sunday as it is today. After all, the size has made a decision that determines it. But then there might be some adjustments that we can look at together, when the government comes to Stortinget with one thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1409	All cultures, most religions and others create a rhythm that is about having rest days at regular intervals. It's found all over the globe, and I think it's in human genes and the way we organize society. For the government, it's important that we listen, and then we listen to the Storting and the recordings that are coming. But we also listen to what the people say in the hearing. Now there's another matter that's at the hearing than the one that was at the hearing earlier. Because it's not just about deregulating, it can also be regulated in new ways. I am very pleased that the Committee welcomes a new case, because there are some injustices in today's legislation. There are huge changes in the entire commercial industry, where online commerce is the major challenge for our shops. I'm curious about all those who were more solar in the hearing bodies a few years ago, perhaps now see completely different challenges for their industry than what they did during that hearing. I have now checked my app on my cell phone: Sundays. 20 I can't shop in any of the stores around me, but I can get delivered just how much I want on the door from another colonial trade, one that delivers on the door and is allowed to deliver at noon. 20 on Sunday. This puts us under enormous pressure to devise new and modern ways of regulating trade, which enables us to make both good arrangements for people and good arrangements for the commercial industry. It's a little weird, that someone thinks it's so fun to go to the garden centre, that it's open, while other people think IKEA is so terrible that it's going to be closed. There are some strange things in our code that are a little inconsistent. We have to assume that there are many ways to organize this, and there are many levels to move power to. But people are still going to eat dinner on Sundays, they're still going to play football. We see that in countries with Sunday trade, there are still people who live good lives and are free on Sunday. And I really hope we'll have that after we've gone through the law as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1422	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1428	I hear from the debate, and also from what the Council of State says, that one should look at adjustments, and that we are living in a different time now than what we did before. It's quite obvious, and that's why the Workers' Party has said what we've said in the setting, that there are opportunities to make some adjustments, but that, as the Christian People's Party says, that's the basis for not liberalizing that's important to us, and that's what the Big One has said. Now you will certainly get a hearing call, but could the Council say a little about how she and the government will weigh the fact that employers and employees have said no, that up to 80,000 more people lose their freedom because they have to work. This is an increase in liberalisation. So more than 100,000 went on a general strike against this. How will the Council of State weigh it up against the liberalisation of ideology that the government is leading?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1437	I am excited about the tone that the hearing has now, in a new age that, for example, is taking place. The net turnover is pushing our trade in goods in completely different ways. So there's a lot of ways to organize this. My party has believed that the municipalities should decide this. This is how the municipalities could, for example: organise opening hours in a way that would have avoided what appeared in Denmark. You can, for example: closing down the major shopping centres on Sundays but opening up more lively street trade in some streets, such as regulating the donation, which is also a demanding regulation by the municipality, because some traders have the opportunity to keep open while others have to close. This shows the municipalities that they get done in a good way many times. But I want to listen to all the hearings, and I'm excited about what the municipalities are saying, which is now living in slightly different working days and has a slightly different structure on their business dealings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1446	It was good to hear that the Council of State is willing to listen. There hasn't been much of it in the government until now, so it's going to be exciting to follow. Can the Council of State then guarantee that she will place great emphasis on what trade unionists say, which will then be among the 80 000 who will actually have to lose their freedom — that there will be more weight than the ability of everyone to do yet another day. So we have six other days we can deal with. If we force these up to 80,000 to work one extra day, that means they get their freedom pretty dramatically reduced. Will the Council of State attach great importance to the views of employees in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1455	I have to say that I attach great importance to this not being about someone working one more day. I believe that the legislation at the bottom of Norwegian working life is not what is going on here. There are quite different places where the questions are to be decided. I don't want to do that. The left was in front of introducing the 8-hour day and regulated working weeks. We're still going to have to have that. This isn't about people working seven days a week. What we have to ensure is that we have good dialogue with the trade unions throughout the process. I'll make sure we do. But we also need to make sure that we have facts on the table, and then we need to make sure that the framework that employment has is as strong when we look at Section 5 as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1462	We have been asked to be constructive in this room earlier today, and I will try to contribute to that now. We are quite clear that Sunday should be held as a different day, that it should be free on Sunday. But then the more parties today, in the setting and also here on the pulpit, including SV, have opened up to look at other types of sensible changes and simplifications in the law. Therefore, I would like to offer a simple invitation to the Council of State to perhaps lift a little bit on the veil as to what kind of simplifications and sensible changes you can make in addition to taking care of Sunday-free.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1467	I'm not going to lift the skirt for this answer, because what we mean here is what's in the NOU that's been sent out. The government has not taken a decision on the final proposals, but there are a number of proposals in the NOU, for example: the 150 m 2 limit applies to all types of shops. So I hope that the municipalities and other hearing bodies are a little creative in their feedback. I might think that someone has some good ideas outside the government and outside the Storting about good ways to regulate this, which means that we can still have good, wise regulation for the community, but nevertheless drop some of the silly results we see of today's regulation. All the laws must also have legitimacy in people, and I think that a little bit of the challenge with this law is that people don't always understand the differences, and many, especially small shops, don't quite understand why they should deal with it, and don't quite understand that they should deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1479	The cord shift is over. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. Eight. At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 9 and 10 are processed together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1510	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time are given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1519	I am the rapporteur on both of these issues. Inner. 170 L for 2017-2018, the Stortinget decided in 2015 to install an alcohol lock in a vehicle used for transport for remuneration. Ministry of Transport proposes in Prop. 31 L for 2017-2018 a change to the Road Traffic Act to facilitate the introduction of an Alkolock directive in vehicles used for the carriage for remuneration. At the same time, there is a proposal for a representative from the representatives of Hans Fredrik Grovevan, Olaug V. Bollestad and Geir Jørgen Bekkewold of the Christian People's Party, which it says: ‘The government asks the government to submit legislative proposals to ensure that all new motorised Norwegian registered vehicles on the roads in Norway have an alkolock system installed.’ The proposal includes a transitional period for phase-in. Int. 170 L demonstrates to the Committee that the introduction of a regulation directive on alcohol will have both economic and administrative implications for the state road system. Furthermore, resources must be allocated to the approval of alcohol workshops, to the supervision of workshops, to the preparation of complaints and to roadside checks. About 11,000 buses carry out public transport with the county municipality as a contracting entity, and the Committee considers that the directive on alcohol locks could thus increase the costs of purchasing collective services by bus from counties. The Committee assumes that alcolocks should not be used for the logging or monitoring of employees and data should not be stored in the devices. In the case of Innst. 163 S for 2017-2018, the Committee shares the policy objective of contributing to better road safety. The Committee points out that the Stortinget has set high targets for increased road safety. That's still the zero that's going to apply. The Committee also points out that there is a process in progress in the EU with the aim of requiring car manufacturers to facilitate the provision of alcolocks and thus making it a condition for obtaining type-approval for the installation of alcolocks. Recommendation of the Committee at the end. 163 S is that the draft representative is not adopted. Recommendation of the Committee at the end. 170 L is that the amendments proposed are adopted. The party considers that changes in legislation entailing increased costs for municipalities and county municipalities should be compensated and that the consequences in terms of costs have not been calculated, except for the direct installation of alcolocks in vehicles to be used in public transport. We believe that the cost of introducing alcohol can be high, as proposed by the government. And we believe that it is unfortunate that the government will not support compensation for the transport buyers, who are mostly the county municipalities, by introducing alcohol locks. Also, it is not sufficiently clear how and how extensive this system should be and where service on alcolocks can be carried out. It is very important for us that when tasks and costs are assigned to county councils, it should be accompanied by budgetary resources, i.e. money. So the centre party will vote in favour of proposal No. 2, from SV, in case No. 10, to ‘ensure that public transport buyers are compensated for the additional costs resulting from the alcohol duty’. The centre party would also point out that Norwegian serious carriers experience strong and not always fair competition with non-resident carriers. This applies to both transport to and from Norway and transport in Norway. A curious rule on alcohol in Norwegian registered lorries would distort competition on the cost side in a way that could unfairly affect Norwegian operators. In these cases, the centre party assumes that amendments to the Road Traffic Act are not introduced in such a way as to result in a distortion of competition as a result, but rather promote serious Norwegian operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1550	The President will inform you that it will summon the alternate from Hedmark County, Per Martin Sandtrøen, now take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1558	First, I want to go to case no. 10, which is a proposal for a representative dealing with safer and safer road traffic through the use of alcolocks. In this case, the Workers' Party is on the committee's recommendation not to adopt the use of alcohol in addition to the proposal in Case No. 9, which I will come back to. We point out, together with the Center Party, that Norwegian carriers are already experiencing a very strong competition with non-resident carriers. This concerns transport to and from Norway, but to a large extent also internally in our country. The Workers’ Party therefore considers that a special rule on alcoholic beverages in Norwegian registered lorries would distort competition in a way that affects Norwegian operators in an inappropriate and unfair manner. We are aware that there is a process in progress in the EU to oblige car manufacturers to make provision for alcolocks, and that such facilitation will be a condition for obtaining type-approval. We therefore believe that it would be wise to await this process rather than introduce strange rules. We also believe that it is essential that we actively work internationally to achieve a level playing field, thereby increasing traffic safety. So back to case no. 9th@item: inlistbox Here, the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left promote proposals to amend the Road Traffic Act in order to facilitate the introduction of bans on alcoholic beverages in all vehicles used for paid passenger transport. This should be introduced to new vehicles from 2020, with a transitional period of three years thereafter for retrofitting vehicles registered before that date. We therefore believe that alcolock is an important premise, but that it should still be as we decided in the Spring 2015 Stortinget, that it should only apply to passenger transport. As we know, there is a great deal of uncertainty about the speed of technological development in the transport sector. Do we want driverless cars in this country in 2023? An entire automotive industry is uncertain about the technology they need to invest in. Will there be electric cars? Is it biogas, hydrogen, that characterizes the future? At the same time, our transport industry is quite rightly concerned about cabotage operations. Competition against non-resident carriers is high, and unfortunately we do not have enough control over illegal non-resident carriers in this country. We must work hard against social dumping and increase the competitiveness of carriers. That is why I repeat that when we introduce alcohol we have to work on this internationally as well. I am promoting proposal No. 1 from the minority in case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1577	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1582	The right will point out that driving in a drug-induced condition is a serious challenge to road safety. The introduction of rules on the use of alcohol for buses and minibuses is therefore an important measure. There is still a zero vision of fatalities and injuries in traffic that apply, as it is formulated, among other things. in Meld. St. 40 for 2015–2016, Traffic safety work – coordination and organisation. There is a process in progress in the EU with the aim of requiring car manufacturers to make provision for alcolocks and thus making it a condition for obtaining type-approval for the installation of alcolocks. In March 2017, the European Commission presented a legislative package to the European Parliament in this matter. The right considers that our rules need to be seen in the context of the rules currently under way in the EU. However, it is possible and important to apply alcohol locks for buses and minibuses. Alcohol can be a good measure to prevent pro-mille driving. The measure is currently being used by several different countries and in different ways, as a condition for continued entitlement to driving rights for convicted persons per million, as road safety measures on a voluntary basis and/or as a regulatory requirement for professional carriers. Prop. 31 L for 2017-2018, on changes to the Road Traffic Act relating to alcohol, was promoted by the State Council on 8 December 2017. The legislative proposal follows up the request decision of the Storting. 582 of 2 June 2015 on the introduction of requirements for the installation of alcolocks in all vehicles used for the carriage of passengers by road for hire or reward. As the proposers point out, there is now a process in progress in the EU with the aim of requiring car manufacturers to facilitate the provision of alcohol. The right joins this work that is currently in progress. The level of road safety in Norway is very good in an international perspective. The long-term trend is positive, and never in modern times has road traffic lost less than now. It is the result of long-term, broad-based and professionally based work among many road safety actors. It has contributed significantly to a good development in this work. However, still lower accident rates present increased challenges in finding effective and targeted measures to further reduce figures. New instruments must therefore be used. This is an example of the implementation of alcohol. With regard to the proposals that are being promoted today by the Christian People's Party, the Right believes that it is important to see this in the EU context. The same applies to the imposition of the requirement to which the Workers' Party has just referred. In fact, we believe that it is a rather drastic measure to take, in relation to the competitive situation we have in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1597	We are examining today proposals for legislation on changes to the Road Traffic Act, where the government follows up the Stortingen’s request decision to introduce requirements for the installation of alcohol in all vehicles used for the carriage of passengers for remuneration, as well as proposals for representatives on safer and safer road traffic when using alcohol. Let me first mention the bill that is being discussed in Stortinget today. This legislative proposal allows the Ministry to impose by regulation on the carrier for remuneration to ensure that the vehicle has an alkolock system installed. Although most of the day’s between 10000 and 15000 daily journeys run with per mille are operated by private individuals, in passenger transport, alcohol is an important road safety measure. This is a positive and correct development. The proposed legislation under consideration is limited to Norwegian buses and minibuses used for the carriage of passengers for remuneration. This considers the Progress Party to be a proper delimitation. We note, however, that the Workers' Party and SV are asking the government to start legal work in order to install alcolocks in all vehicles used for paid passenger transport. We believe that this involves gaping too much at the moment. The reason for this I will come back to. In addition to examining legislative proposals on changes to the Road Traffic Act, Stortinget is currently also dealing with representative proposals on safer and safer road traffic through the use of alcohol. This representative proposal asks the government to present legislative proposals to ensure that all motorised Norwegian registered vehicles on the roads in Norway have alkolocks installed. Like the Council of State, I would like to point out that a process is currently under way in the EU with the aim of requiring car manufacturers to facilitate the use of alcohol, and that such arrangements should become a condition for obtaining type-approval. I agree with the Council of State that, pending this work, it would first like to ensure the implementation of the measures contained in the draft law under consideration in Stortinget, before considering any further national requirements on alcohol. On this basis, the Progress Party will vote against both the Workers' Party's and the SV's proposal to start legal work with a view to installing alcolocks in all vehicles used for paid passenger transport, and we will vote against the Christian People's Party's proposal for additional requirements on alcohol. The Progress Party agrees that alcolock is a good tool to increase road safety. However, we believe that state demands and injunctions are not the way to go. Instead, we want to look at new instruments and measures, and believe that there is a need to look at how best to facilitate the use of alcohol by more players in their vehicles. The Progress Party wants carrots to be used over whips, and more positive instruments are being used to facilitate the voluntary use of alcolocks. We do not want a system of further mandatory regulation from the state team, as we believe that this imposes excessive costs on the transport industry and may involve distortions of competition which are detrimental to the Norwegian industry and which discriminate between the various actors. We think this is a little lucky. At the same time, we must also bear in mind that reports from the Institute of Public Health show that the number of drivers who show signs of being on drugs other than alcohol is increasing. Accidents involving such drivers will not be prevented by alcohol locks, and thus new tools and instruments are needed. Here it is important that we look forward to the whole picture, and at a broadest possible range of instruments to achieve the best possible road safety. On this basis, the Progress Party will vote in favour of the legislative proposal on changes in the pending Road Traffic Act, but we will not support the Workers' Party and the SV's additional proposals. Nor will we vote in favour of the representative proposal from the Christian People's Party on safer and safer road traffic using alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1622	Russ-related traffic deaths are, as many have said, still too common. It is important that the Storting follow this up with good, concrete measures. It's very important. Installing alcohol in cars is such a measure. We therefore support, together with the rest of the Committee, the ban on alcohol in Norwegian buses and minibuses used for passenger transport for remuneration. Of course, I also want to mention the two suggestions that SV is only about in the settings. One proposal is to compensate public transport buyers for the additional cost of installing alcolocks. That's a point that not many people have been into here, so far. In general, public transport requires increased frames, according to SV's perspective. When we impose these kinds of injunctions, it is important to do what we can to facilitate that this does not go against the public providers. In addition, as we are aware, on a proposal from the Workers' Party, we are demanding that alcolocks should not only apply to buses and minibuses, but all vehicles used for paid passenger services, and we ask the government to start legal work to achieve this. With regard to the representative proposal from the Christian People's Party that all Norwegian registered new vehicles should have alcolocks, SV supports its intention, but we believe it would be beneficial to have a more thorough investigation of the measures, before Stortinget takes a final decision, which ensures that the measures are viewed in the light of ongoing processes related to alcolocks in the EU. That's the one. There are also other reasons why it is a little complicated to introduce this now, with a decision. You can imagine situations where, for example, a family is a bit out in the bush, to say it like that, and it intervenes something, an accident, for example, on a cabin. How do you manage to get brought, for example? a little child in very distress to somewhere? You might break an alcohol limit. There are a number of such considerations that should perhaps have been investigated — whether there should have been a seal on the alcohol lock, etc. We therefore promote a proposal that the government investigate the issue and come back to Stortinget with a separate case on this during 2018. I hope that the other parties will join.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1633	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1639	The bill states that it is to be fitted with an alcohol lock in a vehicle used for transporting it for remuneration. This bill follows up the Storting’s 2015 request decision, which several have mentioned, to introduce requirements for the installation of alcolocks in all vehicles used for the carriage of passengers by road in return for remuneration. We think that's the way it's going now, not least that the EU is working on all car manufacturers being required to install alcohol locks. It's a positive development, but we don't think we should do this until it's done in a proper, technically good way and, not least, the costs are put into the mass production that you're looking at when it's determined by the EU. The left believes that there are several companies in the transport sector that could benefit from the voluntary installation of alcohol. This can give an advantage to the customers you have, and it is not least important that it is carried out positively that the drivers of the company are clearly under the supervision of this technical solution. So it can be said that today we have per million control, it can probably be expensive, and there can be savings there when the alcolock comes. However, there are also other ways of dealing with road safety in Norway. It is everyone's goal to have a zero vision, and fortunately almost all drivers – I hope in this room too – have stopped at some point in the per mill control. Fortunately, we are checked in between to avoid the temptation to drive in an alcohol-induced condition. With the challenges we face, there is also a very important work done by the police. That's why I hope it still becomes an important factor for the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1648	Per mille driving is one of the major risk factors in road traffic, and indeed in traffic as a whole. About a third of all killed drivers have pro-mille in their blood, and driving in an alcohol-induced condition we know that they have tragic consequences and can lead to a lot of suffering for many. If we are serious about investing in road safety, we really need to help reduce the number of people behind the wheel under the influence of alcohol. Traditional measures against proliferation, such as police control, information and awareness raising, are very important, but not enough alone. We need to have more measures in place. The objective shall be to reduce accidents, reduce road risk situations. For the Christian People's Party, it has been and is important to reduce the amount of pro-mille driving. Alkolock know we can be an effective method of removing alcohol-induced drivers from traffic. That is why the amendment of the law adopted today is important, and it is good that we now have legislation in place. The government's bill is the result of the Christian People's Party's proposal of 2015, to which the Stortinget then joined. It's good that we now have a code in place to make this work. At the same time, we're not quite in the goal yet. The legislative proposal concerns the prohibition of alcoholic beverages in vehicles used for transporting them for consideration. That is a good measure, and the proposition is within the scope of the decision of the Stortinge in 2015. At the same time, the Christian People's Party believes that we need to take more steps. In particular, it concerns the issue of alcohol in taxis, which is a prerequisite in the proposal Christian People's Party promoted in its time. Then we also understand that we need a transition phase and good arrangements. It was also part of the Stortinget decision in 2015. We perceive that we now have a law that makes it possible to implement a taxi as well. The Committee on Transport and Communications has dealt with the government's proposal, but the Committee has also considered a whole new proposal from the Christian People's Party on the same subject. This concerns Document 8:74 S for 2017-2018, where we propose that all new motorised Norwegian registered vehicles on the roads in Norway should have an alkolock system installed. I read the comments from the committee, but on the part of the Christian People's Party, we believe that there is every reason to have a goal that all Norwegian registered vehicles should have alcolocks. Of course, we also need transitional periods here, and we also need to coordinate phase-in with what is now happening in the EU, but the objective must be clear. That is why we have a loose proposal on this. I refer to the proposal which has been distributed in the seats of the representatives, and I hope that this proposal will be accepted. This is also the case. The policy objective of contributing to better road safety is across all political parties. The size has set high targets for increased road safety. That's still the zero that's going to apply. The zero vision is, among other things: enabled in Meld. St. 40 for 2015–2016, Traffic Safety Notice. It should be possible to have a broad majority for further action on alcohol. In addition, as several speakers have pointed out, we know that there is a process in progress in the EU, with the aim of requiring car users to make provision for alcohol locks. In our opinion, Norway will have to follow the hour, so that we do not end up in the backyard. The technology is in place. It's cheap to install alcoholics today. There is no reason why we cannot start the preparation of that work today. Therefore, we believe that the time is ripe to start a work so that we can phase in alkolock wide. It will be an important security measure that will save lives. Finally, a few words about the vote of the Christian People's Party in this matter. In the case relating to Innst. 163 S for 2017-2018, of course we are voting for our loose proposal, proposal No. 2, which I have taken up, and we are also voting in favour of proposal No. 1, from SV, in the same case. In the case relating to Innst. 170 L for 2017-2018 we support the government's proposal and therefore vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation. We are also voting in favour of proposal No. 1 from the Labour Party and the SV, and we are voting against proposal No. 2, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1663	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1668	The thematics behind today's debate are important. Having safe travel on our roads is something we all want. Being able to travel is an important part of what creates quality of life. Being able to get to work, leisure and school and seeing friends and family is good. But knowing that you're coming out safely is probably so important. In my role, I hardly have any meetings in a year that are worse emotional than just hitting relatives after traffic victims. That's why we're working wide, big and government, to have road safety measures that make us safely where we're going. This is why a person is working both to build and maintain our roads and to ensure that the vehicles are getting better and better, and that drivers have more competence and good attitudes. A short time ago, we presented a package of measures of over 100 points, based on the follow-up to the National Transport Plan, where not only public agencies but also many of the voluntary Norway that are involved and have both tasks and responsibilities to implement it. The fight against traffic intoxication is an important part of that work. Making sure that people are both competent in the first place, and also retaining it by being sober when they drive, is important. Speed and rush are two of three important elements, and seat belts are the third. If we had just made people respect that, we would have halved the number of deaths in traffic. That's why it's good that there's commitment around how we can get fewer people to be drunk when they're running. The use of alcohol locks is such an instrument. Maybe we should wish that attitudes were enough, that we took care of each other, and that each one had the discernment to not get behind the wheel, but it turns out that that's not the case. At the same time, the practical aspects of this can make the introduction of alkolock overnight challenging. It is challenging for the element of competition among carriers competing both in Norway and abroad. It has to do with the cost of our own car park, and it has to do with seeing the practical side – if you want to retrofit an alcolock of three million cars, it is not done in a hand turn. That's why the approach the government has chosen, based on the proposal that got a majority in the Grand Duchy a few years ago, is that we start with those areas of road transport where a earns money to transport. First of all, we start with the buses. It is both to gain experience, and it is to ensure that the extent of places in which one has to install the alcolocks can be monitored, that a sheep does so in a proper way, that it does not provide false security – nor that a device that proves to be ineffective is installed. It's an important part of that approach. It's about pragmatic aspects. Examples have already been mentioned in the debate as to what can happen if, in an emergency, the vehicle on which it has become dependent does not work because the alcohol lock opens, is justified or not justified. I have received feedback from people who work in the public sector where the cars have alcohol locks, that sometimes it takes time before they get off the farm, not because they are drunk, but simply because the system is not yet pottery. These are the things we have to make sure that we have washed out, so that everyone experiences that there is an improvement in road safety work, and that we do not risk that public transport sometimes doesn't work because the bus doesn't start. I'm concerned that we're going in this direction. We have to ensure that we implement it in a way where our common money is used effectively, and where more bus customers can feel an even greater sense of security that their driver is not in a rush, and that one of them gets the benefits of this. I am also concerned that we are going to work internationally, so that this is not something we need to retrofit on everything that comes, but that, together with our neighboring country and not least together with car-producing countries, we get standards that allow things to be installed from factory. It contributes both to better functioning and to a reduction in costs. It's a work that will take time. The last feedback we have received on the EU’s work on this is that there is little interest from some other countries — ergo, there is little progress. Then I think we should guard against introducing this on a broad basis in Norway, when we do not yet know which standards and similar ones end up with in our neighbouring country. But that we're going to work on getting this solved, that we're going to continue working towards running drivers in traffic, I think we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1689	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1694	When new requirements are introduced, the Centre Party considers it appropriate to have a plan for minimising the impact on those affected. For the requirement to introduce alcoholic beverages in all buses additional costs will be borne by county municipalities. The cost will also vary greatly depending on how far it is to a workshop certified to carry out checks on such equipment. Has the Council of State intended to compensate for this, or does the State have to make room for new costs within already tight budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1699	We have proposed a transitional period of five years. That means that in that period there will be a natural replacement of a lot of the bus park. Large, heavy-duty vehicles that are used extensively tend to have a life span of six to eight years, generally within the transport industry. It suggests that it will deal with most. Ergo when you pick up your new buses, or when you have more maintenance, it's natural that you can do this job. This means that you will be able to keep the costs – and the disadvantage – of the carriers to a minimum. Some county councils have already introduced the use of this already today, after what I have been told. So it shows that there is a cost that they deal with within the budgets, and that they seem reasonable. What is important now is that we get a common standard, a common code, on this which makes predictability better. Finally, let me mention that a website that has actually shown that the municipal economy is the best in several decades. So it's not right that everything is bad on the municipal side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1706	Nordland is a county that has, over a four-year period from 2020, reduced its framework transfers by over 1 billion. kr, so that the county has not got a better financial framework, that is quite clear. The Council of State mentions this with the inclusion of alcohol in buses, which will probably lead to a sharp increase in the rate of substitution. But what I really asked about were other types of variable costs, such as control, repair, alcolocks hanging up – one of them had to go to a workshop to get this checked at regular intervals, I think, so that the device works. Do you have to clear room within your own budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1713	There's marginal costs we're talking about here. The annual extra cost is on a few thousand copies, and I think it's so small that it usually goes within what a person covers within his own budgets. If you are charged with new major tasks, it is quite natural that you are compensated for it above the government budget, and so has this government. But this is so small that it goes within already existing frameworks. I just have to remind you that maintaining buses is a responsibility the counties also have today. It is within the service program that one has, and I think most people have good local workshops where one has large bus parks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1720	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Nine and ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1738	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1747	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation in preparing and examining the matter. It has been inspiring and instructive. In the draft representative discussed at the Innst. 162 S, ask that the work that has been started, and which has, not least, come a long way to carry out, be stopped. Competing passenger transport by train has a clear positive objective: more customer-oriented and efficient. For or against the outsourcing of services is a classic debate between the political parties. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Central Party believes that we should not submit tenders for individual sections of the train. But the surprise goes on at the time. Decisions have been taken, measures and organisation have been organised and tenders have been submitted for the Sørlandsbanen. During the work, the Committee held a hearing. It was not the great commitment to meeting up to inform the committee, but clear views were expressed by two staff organisations, which were strongly opposed to competitive outsourcing. Public transport in Norway is already under competition, including ferries, speedboats, bus services and a number of routes in the districts. Based on the latest statistics on the increase in collective passengers, it appears that this has been a success. There has been a formidable increase in the number of passengers within the different segments. During the operation of trains, freight transport is exposed to competition and even passenger traffic is exposed to competition on the Gjøvik track. As I have perceived it, without being the great user of the Gjøvik Railway, there is a positive development in the number of passengers and not least in the comfort and experience of taking the Gjøvik Railway now compared to what it was just a few years ago. The left has one objective: multiple train passengers. Today, trains in Norway have approx. 76 million passengers per year. The target should be 100 million in a few years. Plans must then be implemented in the national transport plan – we know that there are large investments located there. Then the maintenance has to be cut – we know there was a lot in the state budget of the year. And it must clearly be faster and more frequent train connections. So outsourcing is an important and proper tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1762	Over the last few weeks, we've had a lot of rail debates and a lot of things about the railway, in the media image. As regards the discussion on cracking signals about government, follow up the decision of the Stortingen on the InterCity development in the East. There have been difficult weeks for the NSB, with staff shortages and associated problems in rail traffic as a result. There have also been very strong reactions among a number of train commuters that new parking provisions have been introduced at a number of railway stations, parking spaces that have previously been free of charge for commuters, or parking spaces that have previously been reserved for commuters at an acceptable price, which have received a completely different price regime and become much more expensive, and have made it more difficult for many people to use the train for the job. Of course, this has produced strong reactions, and all of these things have come about because we simply have a railway in Norway for the time being without political control, a railway that splits up, where the responsibility is powdered, and where one hand does not know what the other is doing. We've got a whole rush, a whole whirlpool, by different companies and entities within the railway. This is a wild policy, this wants the government and the majority of the population. Then it will also be difficult to control the railway, difficult to control the sector. And we're going to see that to the full. In June, the Stortinget dealt with the national transport plan, nine months ago. So, a few weeks ago, the signals from Bane NOR said that the InterCity expansion in the East, which was one of the major issues involved in the treatment of the national transport plan both in 2013 and in 2017, should not take place as the Stortinget did in June, nine months ago, said. It was Bane NOR who gave those signals. The railway director said they were not aware of what Bane NOR brought. And what did the other terms mean? What did the Ministry and the Council of State mean? Yes, this matter is so serious that a majority in Stortinget has asked the Minister of Transport to come to Stortinget and explain the matter. But that's a crazy development, because we now have so many different units and actors that we get the kind of situation that the railway infrastructure undertaking and the directorate and all the other possible units don't know what the others are doing. The lack of staff in the NSB has caused too many problems because the NSB has had to set trains. They have too little drivers and conductors. Let me underline: I don't defend it, at all. But it's perfectly understandable that the NSB has come into that situation, because we have a government and a large number of people who want the NSB to lose a job. It was stated in the documents we discussed in 2015 that it was desirable for others to take over rail transport from the NSB. Of course, when the NSB is likely to lose little or much of the tasks they have today, they must also have smaller staff. So once again, it's a wild development and a direct consequence of the railway reform. Let me then, finally, link some comments to the great reactions that have come about parking at the railway stations. There is also an example that there is a lack of transparency and coordination in the railway sector that the railway infrastructure undertaking, Bane NOR, is operating as a small part of the large picture, only concerned with just what they can obtain from revenues, obviously, in those parking spaces. And then the whole thing is missing. Because we now have so many units and so many companies and so many companies and so many companies that are operating in the railway, we lose the overview. Only the examples I have given here are good enough arguments that the Storting should say no, let's end with this, let's end with the fragmentation of the railway, let's end with the competitive outsourcing and privatisation, now we're gathering more and taking back control! But, unfortunately, the majority will not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1775	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1780	Well, thank you, President. It's so good that I have to do that, of course!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1785	The representative, Sverre Myrli, then brought up the proposal he mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1790	I have to say, first of all, I might have been a little more optimistic on behalf of the Centre Party than the rapporteur was, because I was a little surprised that the Central Party was behind this proposal that came now. I have the impression, at least in the districts, that the centre party is quite concerned that there should be an opportunity for other actors to operate maintenance – around. On the other hand, I see the Workers' Party and SV as tablers for the reversal of the railway reform, and we got a great example of that here instead. The railway reform is now being implemented with a strong commitment to Norwegian rail. The aim is for passengers and business to receive a better offer, while ensuring that the ever-higher allocations to rail are used in the most efficient way possible. In the case of the rose-red performance that the Workers' Party clearly has about the railway we had, it got a shot for the bow in the autumn of 2011. A group of experts then presented a report identifying the main challenges in the railway sector. On the basis of the expert group’s recommendation, the allocation of railway infrastructure has increased considerably in recent years. The report also pointed out that some of the challenges cannot be solved through increased appropriations alone. This applies, inter alia, to: challenges sharing responsibility for railway property between the Railway Agency and the NSB subsidiary Rome Eiendom AS. It has created unclear responsibilities, for example: in the case of node development. Weak incentive mechanisms have caused the organisation to promote too little customer/supplier relationships between operators in order to ensure that railway traffic goes as planned. Competition as a means of achieving efficiency and innovation has been under-used. The potential for better coordination of rail and other public transport has not been explored. The need to plan the development of the railway with a longer time horizon and to a greater extent based on future travel needs is present. Competitive outsourcing is not an unknown phenomenon in public transport. Bus routes in large parts of the country are operated by companies on a competitive basis. Ferry, fast route, air routes do the same thing. Yes, even the Urban Railway in Bergen is competitive – in addition to rail freight, the Gjøvik Railway, etc. It seems unnatural that passenger traffic by train should not also be subject to competitive tendering. Competition will contribute to a better train offer and ensure that the State buys train services at the right price. In addition, I do not believe that any train company in a competition would come into a situation where not enough drivers were secured to serve their customers. I think that's quite clear. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the NSB itself is a company that benefits from competition in Sweden. The NSB has won up to several transport routes and they are now transporting passengers in Sweden. The NSB is not poorly placed in the competition that is now coming. Competition for the provision of train services may be conducted under the direction of the Directorate-General for Railways and various train operators shall compete for the right to operate train services in a geographical area. Through the establishment of this subsidiary, the NSB will participate in competition in the same way as other train companies. The plan is to let train companies compete for driving on the different routes in agreement with the State. Passenger train services shall be divided into packages of traffic which are set out over a 10-year period. The Railway Directorate is in the process of doing this. The State will pay the train companies to ensure a social economic train offer on economically unprofitable routes, as it is today. Packages mainly cover different geographical areas. It is desirable to gain in-flight experience, and therefore not all passenger train services will be offered for competition at the same time. So that's a good background for why you do what you do. You have customers in the center, and making sure you get the right service at the right price is not least important when we see how much to invest on the railway in the future within the resources we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1807	The Progress Party strongly disagrees with the proposal of the Centre Party to stop all competitive take-up of passenger transport by train. Such a proposal means that we will draw the development of the rail sector in a completely wrong direction and result in a poorer offer for its citizens, and make everyday life more difficult for those who base their work journeys and leisure trips on a well-developed, efficient and reliable train offer. I note that the Central Party believes that the railway reform leads to increased red tape and fears that the State will lose control of the train offer and that they therefore believe that all the competitive outsourcing of passenger services by train must be stopped. However, the Central Party does not refer to any facts or arguments that can support the claims, and I allow myself to refer to the fear of the Center Party in its proposal for a representative as totally unfounded. Unlike what the Center Party is capable of, I'm here to justify my claims. Firstly, I would like to show that most of the public transport in Norway is already exposed to competition. This applies to ferries, buses, boats and a number of air services in the districts. I note that the Senterpartiet believes that comparison with the ferry and bus markets is not real. I would then like to show that the competitive outsourcing has already been put into service within the railway, both in terms of freight transport and on the Gjøvik track. And the experience with the deployment of train services is good. Let me mention the Gjøvik track. After the start of the competition, there have been several departures, the number of passengers has increased, and customer satisfaction is good. This has happened at the same time as government expenditure on the purchase of passenger transport has been reduced. So we get a better train offer for passengers while we spend less on taxpayers' money. Unfortunately, but not surprisingly, the Central Party does not want to contribute to the forward-looking and forward-looking development of the railway where we get more track and a better offer without placing the funding burden on taxpayers. The Ministry of Transport has had several meetings with the Gjøvik Railway, and based on these, there is no reason to believe that the Gjøvik Railway is a less attractive workplace than other sections. Here too, the Central Party will be destroyed. The good results of the Gjøvik course actually show that the market is working despite the fact that the Center Party is trying to deny it. It is worth noting that experience from other countries also shows that competitive outsourcing works, and it creates a better train offer. Thus, the resistance of the centre party to innovation and further development is difficult to understand. Furthermore, I notice that the centre party fears increased red tape if the competition continues. Also, this is a claim I believe is totally incorrect, and again I will justify my own claim. The companies that have now become independent are companies that were previously subject to the NSB. These companies have now gained an independent role with the possibility of more dedicated management focus, but they are nevertheless structures that have existed for a long time. Companies are still full-time by the country, but the changes made are important if we are to ensure a competitive industry where more operators can compete on equal terms and deliver better services to a wider part of the transport sector. The Progress Party wants to facilitate increased competition so that we can create a better and cheaper train offer for its citizens, which will also bring significant environmental benefits. If we are to cope with this, rail transport must become more competitive. At that time, the competitive outsourcing of passenger transport is the way to go. I am absolutely sure that the benefits of acquiring a train service through a tendering process will be greater than the disadvantages. It is also worth noting that experience from other industries shows that competition more effectively ensures that the State pays the proper price for the benefit to be provided by the contractor and helps to increase the knowledge and professionalism of the contracting authority. This ensures a more efficient use of society’s resources and taxpayers’ money. It should be in everyone's interest, including the Senter Party. So let's vote on the proposal to stop the competitive outsourcing of passenger services by train, so that we can continue the development towards a better, cheaper and more robust train service for our citizens. It is surprising to hear that the Workers' Party has not even read the matter – when you mix both InterCity and the construction of rails and what it should be. But I'm really wondering if the Workers' Party's Swearer Myrli will now stop the competitive advantage that NSB has – competing in other countries, like Sweden. It has worked well for many years. If you are against everything of competition, I would like the Workers' Party to be able to make the solutions visible. But that's too much, because you haven't answered that yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1832	The Central Party has therefore put forward a proposal to stop the suspension of passenger services by train, a competition which is part of a comprehensive rail reform that has given the creation of a number of new companies: one for tickets, one for the operation of the rail system itself, one for rolling stock and one for travel planning. In addition, we have the NSB, which is a state-owned operator company, and a new directorate is set up to run all of these companies. Each of these companies has its Director and a staff to manage the administrative services they will provide. The centre party is concerned that reforms should provide the best possible services to our citizens and less bureaucracy and costs to the state. This rail reform does not simplify and streamline, it creates, on the contrary, a greater bureaucracy and less efficiency, which is contrary to the objectives of the reform – that it should provide a better and cheaper service. The centre party has asked questions about each savings and cuts to be made, without any good answers from the government. Hearings have shown that the options are marginal to count on, as it is largely limited to adding to their pay, employment and pension conditions to compete if the service is to be maintained. For many years, the NSB has provided good rail service to travellers. In a European context, the Norwegian network is small and transparent. The basis for competition under market conditions is low, as most of the routes depend on state scheduled purchases in order to operate. Today, this is controlled by a state-owned company rather than by calling out the services. The centre party thinks it's a good model for the Norwegian railway. The majority of the Committee sees its comments on the ferry and bus market as a good example of competitive exposure, and that it has been successful in the transport sector. It's not a comparison that's real. In the offer, material is included, except for some distance away. One can then compete in more areas than just personnel costs. The idea of putting off competition on buses and ferries was that this would provide savings, but talking seems to be the opposite. There has been a large increase in the cost of ferry services since the service was put at a competitive disadvantage. The bus services for which the county is responsible and which have been organised before the launch of the competition cannot be compared with the railway before the railway reform. But experience sees cost growth for the state and reduced supply, especially in the district. The centre party believes that the Norwegian railway had strengthened itself if one had organized it more holistically. One could have gathered responsibility among the same company, group, as one sees in large railway nations like Germany and France. Responsibility for operation, maintenance and management in the same organisation would give economies of scale. This is also the case with the United Kingdom, which has carried out a similar reform to that of Norway. There the state has its costs to the railway around to double, and the ticket prices for the travellers are about 40 pst. higher than in other European countries. So the center party thinks that a adaptation to a system with such consequences is going to be the iron track or the travelers. Therefore, the Centre believes that the suspension of passenger services by train is incorrect and will not give passengers a better and expanded offer. The Central Party therefore supports the proposal to stop the work on the suspension of passenger services on trains.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1849	There's something strange about this right-hand ideology. Regardless of experience, regardless of the bad feedback received from other countries that have tried the same, privatisation and tendering procedures shall be carried out. Maybe they believe it, maybe not, but they'll implement it – in fields after fields. Then everything becomes cheaper, better, safer, more streamlined and, not least, there will be better limits to liability. Well, that's what I'm going to get back to. But there is one area that is never mentioned – of course it does not. This relates to the employment of employees. When this railway reform divides the original two floors into a variety of companies, where those who win the tender for the operation of trains will all be required to purchase the same services from the same suppliers – train equipment, ticket services, rails and signals – what is it competing for? I can see nothing but pay and working conditions – there is nothing else. Will it not be quite obvious that there is pressure on working time, pensions, welfare schemes, etc.? 'Customer-oriented and effective' is the objective, said the case-rapporteur from this chair. Well, if I sat here in the middle of the 1990s, I would vote against what happened then. Then the first sign came on what was later to be the division and fragmentation of responsibility: trains and rails plated layers. Why was it thought that a train company could perfect itself on stability and precise trains when one is not responsible for rails and signalling systems? I would like it if someone told me. I'm never going to understand that. So the race itself came – a complete fragmentation of the whole and responsibility, a division into a number of companies with their responsibilities, one for tickets, one for rails, one for infrastructure, one for train equipment, one for travel planning, etc. Then you have to go on the track with cleaning, maintenance functions, etc. All of this is hailed. So up here, old good NSB has to find its place as an operator in a competition with a certain number of other companies. This means, of course, that the NSB must also face this competition, just as SAS met competition in the air with Norwegian, Ryanair and the others – exactly the same way. There were ground crews, cabin crews, yes all those who are there, must run even faster, work even worse shifts, lose more and more benefits. Is this what we want? We see what the NSB has done in its excessive adaptation to competition. They've lost too many staff. The train was cancelled. There are two other issues that I think are significantly under-communicated in the government's image of the reform – or rather, there are two major issues hanging in the air. First of all, is it really going to be cheaper? That's a very important question. What kind of investigation is behind getting answers to that question? I haven't seen anyone. Is there simply a kind of right-wing idealism to be implemented? Then it's bureaucracy. It is referred to by the Central Party numbering. Is there going to be more or less bureaucracy? Tenders shall be drawn up, control mechanisms established, etc. Some people, for example: reporting needs or finding errors, making decisions, then submitting an order, then delivering them, and then checking them. Is there really anyone who believes with their heart that this is going to be cheaper, or is there going to be less bureaucracy? So SV wants, as most people understand here, to go the opposite way to the right-hand party railway reform. We don't want to go back, not just be old-fashioned and museums, as some might claim, but the structure should be that one company, one main company, is responsible for coordinating, coordinating, operating and maintaining. It's just that way that we get a common responsibility for getting a modern railway. It is not without reason that the Norwegian Railway Federation, Norwegian Locomativmannsbund, LO Stat and LO will have an NSB 2.0. So we're on the whole line. I would like to refer to some countries for the councils and government parties: look at Switzerland and look at England. Then you can draw different conclusions. I would like to refer to and, of course, support the proposal in the vote, which is supported by SV. I would also like to mention that the European rail package is the next threat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1881	This case has been adopted without impact assessment and without economic estimates. The government argues that competitive outsourcing will automatically lead to a better train offer, but the question is: Better for whom, and at the expense of what? Privatisation and competition make it possible to cut it where it can be cut, and it is very rare in top management wages, but in the employees' pay, employment and pension conditions. Today, this is under heavy pressure in the NSB, where tough efficiency programmes specifically affect working conditions. Trustees report that this has led to a marked deterioration in the working environment and several conflicts between employees and management. The railway reform has led the NSB to launch a quite violent campaign to cut costs to stand armed to win tenders. At the same time, there is reason to believe that the NSB fears being left with too many employees if – or perhaps when – they had to lose their bids. In the last few weeks, train passengers in the East have experienced a series of cancelled trains and that other trains have gone with fewer vehicles. This has created great problems in the everyday lives of thousands of people. The reason for the problems is lack of staff. The NSB has chosen not to replace enough drivers and conductors who have retired or retired from retirement. So the cut-off has led to the fact that the NSB does not have enough staff to run their trains, while about 35 newly trained drivers do not get a job. So those who have a job have to work overtime. Holidays required by law are refused or deferred. This may, in sum, weaken the safety of the railway. So some people go unemployed while trains are being cancelled because of staff shortages, because of the railway reform. This keeps the Minister of Transport cleaning up, but the situation will last a long time, and we could avoid it if we hadn't introduced privatisation of the railway. One of the comments of the majority in the case, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, reads as follows: ‘The majority want more competition for the rail network so that rail transport can become more competitive.’ Here we have to pause and think about what it really means, what it says here. We must therefore compete for the sake of competition. In addition, it says: ‘The majority believe that increased competition will provide better and cheaper services so that more people use rail for passenger transport, which will increase environmental benefits.’ So the majority believe that stopping the offer of passenger transport by train is the wrong way to go. We want a better and cheaper train service, but it must not be at the expense of employees' pay and working conditions. The growth in the number of train trips in the last five years has been almost 30 p.m., so more people want to travel by train – completely without competitive outsourcing. Today we have many full trains, and few departures are due to restrictions on the infrastructure. Under 6 pst. of the rail network are double tracks. The rest are single tracks, which greatly restricts the number of trains available. Corresponding limitations are also created due to the lack of site, operational yard, workshop capacity and the like. Those who really make use of the privatisation of the railway are the increasing number of top managers and owners, who can take advantage of the profits of the companies being released on Norwegian rails. Many of them, most of the companies, in fact, are foreign departments of other countries' national train companies. Here, then, Norwegian tax revenue is to go to railway companies in other countries. In 2016, the NSB provided a solid profit from the companies that have now been separated. Where is the logic of bringing this profit back into the railway? The vote in favour of the proposal by the minority to stop the work on the launching of passenger services by train.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1908	Rail is an important form of transport on which today's government and today's majority have made a strong commitment. In 2011, there was a report showing that the Norwegian railway was collapsing. In the following years, the then government chose to reduce the appropriations for maintenance. That's not the way you solve it. There were no reforms, from time to time, when it came to organisation. Today’s majority have shown the willingness and ability to invest more in the railways, both by providing more resources to build – and maintain – more and by having better organisation, by ensuring that the tasks are professionalised and that a clearer collective responsibility that belongs naturally to one another is given, precisely in order to deliver increased capacity. The criticism that has come now, I do not know much about what is actually happening in the railway. Much of the criticism is therefore about a reform that this government is not in the process of doing, but a sort of airlock that is then criticised by other parties. Let me just remind you that by today's railway, the state is still going to own everything about infrastructure. Trainsets and materials – it is the State that controls access to the tracks, that is to control the routes and that is to purchase the services. When one here is talking about privatisation, it's the strangest form of privatisation I've heard of, where the state is, in fact, the sole owner of everything. At the same time, we are using an instrument that has been supported by almost all the other parties in Stortinget, namely buying services from the best supplier. In the counties governed by red-green lots, it is widely used. It's strange that you've made a completely different logic with regard to the railway. It points to Germany and France. It's very good, and I hope the Center Party travels and visits Germany. Then you'll find a railway country over 30 pst. the railway is already exposed to competition — much more than in Norway — and it points to a desire. Then we actually have a job to do, if we're going to achieve the goal that the Center Party points to. In Switzerland, as others tend to raise, there are over 70 different actors on the railway. So it's not like you have a country that has one big mastodon that rules. This has been largely the case in Eastern bloc countries, under regimes that we have long since wanted in this country. It is also worth noting that what was proposed by the LO system for rail reform was not about having a completely state-run company, where the Ministry of Transport was at the top. It was about creating a public limited liability company that would have arm's length distance from the political governance of the Ministry of Transport and leave it to the board of directors of the NSB – ‘NSB 2.0’. It would give less political governance, that's all. So there's no connection between the criticism coming here, and the solutions outlined, either from the Workers' Party, SV or the Center Party, and at least from the Red Party. What we've done is we've taken a lot of the good units that are in the NSB and separated them as separate companies that are directly under the Ministry of Transport. It should initially provide better political governance, because we must not go through, via, different sections of the NSB system. The line is now directly from the Ministry of Transport to the company responsible — in the case of train equipment, ticketing and infrastructure. And not least, we've got what Myrli's representative has not yet brought: a railway director who has the overall overview and the strategic thing. When one claims that one hand in the railway sector does not know what the other does, there is more to suggest that the representative Myrli does not know how the railway works. Because, after my experience – which was also confirmed at the conference at the Railway Forum just a few weeks ago – the Railway Directorate and Bane NOR know very well what the various organisations are responsible for and what they are doing. One creates the impression, at the main hall, that that knowledge does not exist in the system. Well, it's in the system, but it seems like it's missing in this room. But I don't think that affects the majority's view. What has been left out in many of the left-hand analyses on how to get a better railway is the customer. What we're competing for is getting more people to want to travel by train. Contrary to what it is like to travel by ferry, where there is generally only one way to get over the fjord, and it is getting on board the boat – because it is rare for a ferry to compete with a bridge or a tunnel – most train travellers have an alternative. Some places are the alternative planes, many places are buses, cars or bicycles. The goal must be to get more people to choose from the car to travel by train. There are the sources of income. Then we have to get a better railway, and we get that by better organisation, more investment, increased maintenance, more take-offs and more train sets. There are also almost 100 more drivers today than when we took over, so we also need more employees, and we are delivering on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1929	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1934	The Minister of Transport is talking about better organisation. I'm a little uncertain as to whether the travellers on the Eastfold Railway in winter have realized that it is better to organise the railway. It's a section of track that's experienced major disruptions and problems, people get late for work, people come home too late again to reach kindergarten and other obligations you had to have in the afternoon. There is great frustration among travellers on the Eastfold Railway in winter – sometimes chaotic conditions. I'd like to know if it's the responsibility of the NSB, the problems we've seen on the Eastfold Railway in the last few weeks, whether it's the responsibility of the material company, whether it's the responsibility of the maintenance company, whether it's the responsibility of the ticket company, whether it's the responsibility of Bane NOR, or whether it's the responsibility of the railway directoratet.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1941	Dearly beloved, the representative Myrli: NSB was looking for a meeting in the ministry and pointed out that they had bombed when it came to the number of employees. They have assumed full responsibility, and they are already fixing it. That the representative Myrli is having a debate when he himself has not got the facts, I think it's a little strange in this context. There are more drivers in the NSB today than in 2013, when we took over. But there's a lot more flights going crazy, and it's caused the NSAs to admit that they've been vulnerable. They have not been able to have enough capacity in terms of the number of employees, but they will fix this when the problem has appeared. Unfortunately, the problem proved to be as it has now. It shouldn't have. However, I would like to compare it with e.g. 2011–2012, when there were persistent problems with infrastructure, materials and the like. This government is solving this, the previous government is pushing the problems ahead. That is what this is all about – being able to solve the problems and deliver a better service in the future, and we are in the process of implementing them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1948	Then we have confirmed that the problems that have been on the Eastfold Railway this winter are the responsibility of the NSB. The NSB is owned by the State and the Minister for Transport has overall responsibility for the company NSB. He is responsible for what the state pays to the NSB, but yet we see what happens on the Eastfold Railway and elsewhere. This is because, unfortunately, the NSB is afraid to lose its bid in the major competitive take-up that is now due to the fact that the government and the majority of the population want – it is a misguided political development – to take over the driving of trains other than the NSB in Norway. Then my question is: does the Minister for Transport, as the Supreme Authority, have any responsibility for the problems that have now been on the Eastfold Railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1958	We ensure that the NSB receives both the steering signals and the appropriations they say are necessary. I pointed out that there have been problems with staff shortages, but there have also been infrastructure challenges. It's Bane NOR's responsibility. I think we all know that, when we think about it, but what has been the main problem there has been a lack of personnel. The NSB has said that it has been the ones who have misjudged, and they have grasped it. So the problems are getting solved. In terms of capacity problems in general on the Eastfold route, this is precisely why we grant 25 billion. kr for, among others to build the Folloban tunnel. That is why we now have sensors in the market to see if it is possible to order double-deckers, in order to deliver a better offer. When the representative Myrli tries to do some exceptional situations to become the general rule, I just want to remind you that in terms of customer satisfaction, the NSB had its best year in 2017. 75 pst. – which is a much higher proportion than before – says they are satisfied with what the NSB delivers. Satisfaction also goes up among employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1967	The Gjøvik track, which I often run – and I have our leadership for the Gjøvik Railway at a time, so I know him incredibly well – has been drawn out as a glittering example of the fact that privatisation works on the railway. But it has been a little concrete if why Gjøvikbanen has been a good example of privatisation. So I could plan to challenge the Council of State to list the different elements that have made the Gjøvik track such a success.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1972	I have taken the tour with the Gjøvik track many times, often with employees and managers, who tell just why it has been a success. There's been a good passenger growth there. There have been many sections in Norway, for all, but the difference is that on the Gjøvik Railway the country paid less to get a passenger growth than on most other routes. So we've got more for the money. What the people who work in the NSB Gjøvik track say is that in a smaller unit there is in a way a completely different culture that has evolved, with a much shorter path between management and employees. That means that when someone has a good idea, it's a lot faster to test out things to see if this makes customer satisfaction go up. That's why the NSB Gjøvik track among the customers has often had words on it because things don't happen anywhere else – not because it's impossible to do it in other parts of the NSB system, but because the NSB Gjøvik track, with its small organization, can test out a lot of things. What is the point of putting out competition is to get better offers everywhere, precisely by reducing the distance from management to employees — among other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1979	What happened to Gjøvikbanen in 2005 was that the supply was reduced by 30 pst. fewer departures. When the offer was made in 2006, it was increased by 40 pst. There was a difference in substance for the travellers. At the same time, we've seen the Kongswingerbahn, which is a little bit similar to the Gjøvik Railway. There is a limited distance. She's still in NSB traffic. The Kongswingerbahn has actually had the same development – and almost better – as the Gjøvikbahn. Why has Kongswingerban been closed on the same line as Gjøvikbanen, even though he is still NSBs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1987	I said in my introduction to the previous answer that there has been traffic growth on almost all lines because the state buys more services. We're using over 3 billion. NOK to buy train departures around. What I also pointed out was the difference: while we often had to spend more money to get more flights on most lines, we spent less money on getting more flights on the Gjøvik course. That's what's the point here. If we're still going to spend 3 billion. kr to buy services on the railway, wouldn't it be great if we could spend less money per existing line, but get more departures on the same routes? We had then been freed from money to buy even better services. And that's where the whole criticism from the opposition has been bombed: one gives the impression that the only thing you're competing with is the payroll of the employees. It's by no means the case. What we're competing for is a best offer on that track. The quality of the services counts more than half of the tenders; there is no pay and price that counts 100 pst, as one gets the impression from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e1994	I am happy to hear the answer to the previous questioner. I have to ask the Council of State if he cannot see that it is easiest to compete when train operations are put on the market, that is pay terms, working conditions and pensions – that is what is being put under pressure. I hear what the Council of State says, that there's going to be better service – that's what we're competing with – but the element that goes where it's possible to save in order to improve competitiveness: isn't that exactly what I'm talking about? I wish the Council of State could give a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2001	I don't think a railway company that primarily competes on the salaries of employees is going to win anything, because it will mean that you have a terrible mismanagement, a management that reminds me of the class struggle that – quite rightly – started over a hundred years ago, but that is not recognized in a modern working life. But it's also because in the tender papers we've sent out, the ability to hold the employees is actually one of the criteria on which we compete. That means that if you put forward a strategy where a pinch of pension and pay, have bad tournaments and the whole package, a score will be terribly low on the ability to hold the employees. In the tender papers for the train package 1 the quality of deliveries is weighted by more than 50 pst. The price is weighted less than 50 pst. It's about showing how to win more customers on board trains, how to keep the employees and develop them. It does not seem that the opposition has read the tender papers before making proposals against them, and it shows that one behind the proposal of the Centre Party is ideology and not a practical approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2008	I must follow up the previous question, for the majority of the Committee, the representatives of the Right, the Party of Progress and the Left, write in a note: ‘The majority note that there was little interest in this hearing and that only two organisations chose to register.’ There were not any organisations that met. It was the trade unions of the employees who expressed great concern about the employees. Then I have a question, to clarify some of what the representative Mr. Nävra asked about: Can the Minister reassure employees by saying that pay, employment and pension conditions will be continued at the present level when the tracks are exposed to competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2018	In Norway, we have tripartite cooperation. It's not the politicians who go in and run pay, etc. in company. But as I said in my previous answer, this is part of the elements we're going to evaluate. SV can laugh as much as they like, but I encourage you to read the tender papers, because there is one of these answers. It has not been intended to compete on poor wages, on poor pensions and on poor working conditions. It's this thing that clearly distinguishes us: what role does the customer have in this system? What role do we have in trying to get more people to choose the railway by providing a better offer? Where the left-hand side only looks at the union's arguments, we raise our eyes and take for granted that we are going to treat our employees properly, but we are going to make sure that more people want to travel by rail. There are many gas stations in this world that deliver the same product, but nevertheless there are some of them that we are more satisfied with than others. I want those who are the best to provide train services to deliver it to the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2025	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2032	I would first like to refer to the comments of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV and our proposal to stop the government's work on the competitive deployment of our railway. Let me then refer to what the government itself has written in its government budgets in recent years, where the government, in connection with its red tape and efficiency reform, has been concerned with this: ‘The government is building its policy on an effective use of the Community’s resources.’ In my opinion, it is now happening exactly the opposite. A number of new companies are set up; a company for tickets, a company for the operation of the railway network, a company for the rolling stock of the rails, another company for the planning of travel, etc. The NSB is a state-owned operator company, and on top of this, we've got a new directorate to run all of these companies. As I understand this reform, a new bureaucracy is being built here and the focus is being shifted from service production itself – ensuring that at all times we have enough trains to carry people to where they are going – to new administrative and bureaucratic structures. This must be contrary to what the government itself describes as their objective, namely the effective use of Community resources. In our opinion, it would be more appropriate, and even a strength for the Norwegian railway sector, if we had organised this more comprehensively. Because when my fellow passengers and I are sitting on the Eastfold Railway, we are busy with one thing – that the train is going when it is going to arrive, and that the journey is being carried out in a safe and sound manner. That many companies are involved, and that one company can blame the other when the train does not go when it is supposed to, does not hold. For the sake of order, in Halden, we're still sitting and wondering if we're part of the InterCity expansion, and then when the expansion comes to Halden and the Reichsgren. At a time when we are all concerned with clear responsibilities and less bureaucracy, it is reassuring to see that in this case the government is going the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2043	In the EU case, the Centre Party has marked itself as a clear no-party in which they actually stand up for Norway in a fairly straightforward way. I have to brag a little bit of the Center Party there. But it's going to be a problem when the no-position of the Center Party is pronounced and not only targets a no to be overrun from Brussels, but also becomes a general no to everything and everyone, including getting a better train offer for the whole country. The Centre Party – but also the Workers' Party and SV – does not take into account that competition is healthy and that society is constantly changing. We can't protest against all changes and all developments and go backwards into the future, as the Center Party seems to want. Competition contributes to increased diversity, innovation, innovation and better supply for the consumer and customers. Competition also works in areas where the Centre Party believes it is not working, such as agriculture or transport. In the dairy sector, for example: Synnoses The Find and Q-Meierien contributed to increased product range and freedom of choice for the consumer. For example, in intra-traffic traffic: New roads contributed to innovation: not only saves New roads in isolation from society for approx. 30 B.C.E. kr for the 53 miles they will build, but they will also contribute to increased cost focus and innovation of the State Road Service, and they will also be able to contribute positively to the impact of Bane NOR. Of course, the aim of the train offer is to provide passengers with a better train offer. In Norway we have competition in other collective areas, but not on trains, and that is illogical. We have justly put off the Gjøvik track, and it works very well. It works so well that the Railway Directorate has extended the agreement that NSB won in 2005 until 2024. In fact, what NSB does on the Gjøvik track is not unique in relation to other areas, such as: the aircraft sector. On the plane you can eat and relax with both beer and wine for the food, and you can also reach it on the Gjøvik track, and on selected Saturdays there are actually free cheek eggs for the children. The NSB sees that the coating on the trains that have such an extra offer is higher, so the offer is proven to be popular. So Gjøvikbanen has led to a better offer, in addition to the fact that the state has saved money. It is a pleasure that we now have a Right Party-Left Government, with the support of the Christian People's Party, which also provides for competition on other sections of the train, so that most people can get a better train offer. There has been competition in Sweden since the 1980s, and although some claim that there were some childhood diseases, it works well in Sweden, and there is no reason why it should not work as well in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2056	There were questions about why the Central Party has now promoted this proposal. It's not because we say no to everything. The center party says no only when we want a different development. Governments believe that we will get more departures and better services. Right now, we're seeing that onions cutters 44 flights in Lofoten and the West Pole to adapt to the market. It cut 10 pst. of the total production. On the contrary, it is difficult to obtain profitable production, and the company does not ignore the fact that they have to cut off other routes as well. The market does not deal with everything, especially when you need the service outside the most populous areas and there is increasing pressure on Norwegian wage, labour and pension conditions. Many countries have been at an early stage in introducing business-economy principles in key public services, known as New Public Management. Many of them now see great challenges. More market orientation within the public sector would lead to more cost-effective offers without adverse side effects. The representative of Oddnes referred to railway experience in the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom has 30 years of experience with New Public Management, and its research shows that it can be both more expensive and worse than what was originally intended. The centre party would have wanted us to be able to stop this outsourcing, both for reasons of not pressing the working conditions and introducing even more social dumping in Norway and because we believe it provides better services across the country. It is possible to obtain good public train services. The salt pendulum, for example, has good regularity and goes very well. I had hoped that someone could turn around, and gave us the majority for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2067	A little bit of clarification: there are so many new companies in Entur AS. It is a limited liability company owned by the Ministry of Transport to provide sales and ticket solutions for the railway. In addition, Entur shall provide services to facilitate the planning, comparison and purchase of seamless travel across all collective societies in the country. One of the major challenges of traveling collectively in this country is that we need tickets from different companies. In Oslo and Akershus, we're fine. Where the county office buys the service from the NSB, and they have one ticket, one price, divided into zones. If you're going to Drammen, you're going to have to use another public society. There's a lot of community companies around. With this system, you have to be able to order tickets from A to B, no matter where you are in the country, no matter what collective offer you have to make on this trip. It's something other than what you've been doing in the past. As regards the purchase of the material company: when we were going to have double decks on the Gjøvik Railway, for example, to increase the passenger capacity, the Gjøvik Railway could not do that, because they were afraid to be left with unaccustomed material. Now the state owns the material, and it's uninteresting. If double deckers are hired, the State has a responsibility for this material so that it can be used on all types of train lines in the country. It's something completely different than what we've had in the past. With regard to the increase in the railway collective effort, or the number of passengers: from 2012, the bus companies, in particular in the metropolitan area, have transported passengers to the railway station instead of driving express buses to Oslo, which are drowning in public transport. It has contributed to a strong growth on all lines towards Oslo from Akershus. You feed passengers to the Kongswingerbahn. It brings people into Oslo. You feed passengers to the Gjøvik Railway. It brings people into Oslo. The NSB has provided a surplus or dividends to the State of about half a billion dollars a year. It is not initially a deficit enterprise, they have actually been operating with significant profits, including from passenger traffic. Therefore, there is reason to think: If the price we pay as passengers is correct, couldn't the service offer be better, and couldn't the price be lower within the limits we have? Now they get competition, now they can show what they're capable of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2078	It was the representative of Sigmundstad that made me take the floor again. He said he perceived that the attention has now changed from service production to bureaucracy. Then I must have expressed myself extremely clumsy, if that was the leftover impression of my post, because it is the very opposite I tried to argue for. So the responsibility is not diluted for the different sectors that you have. The fact that you yourself, like from Stortinget, have not seen which part of the railway system is responsible for which part of the delivery, does not mean that those who work there do not know what responsibility they have. The fact that you have a Bane NOR means that you have one actor who is responsible for all infrastructure and property. Once it was divided into two players or more, now it is one actor. So creating that uncertainty in this hall is absolutely no basis for it. I would rather recommend the Committee to get invited to a tour of Railway Norway – and I would like to start with Bane NOR and the Directorate for Railways, to get good insight and information about how this system is. Then we can have a discussion about the potential for improvement that lies there, because I don't think a system will be fully developed and cemented to the eternal future – there will always be a need for improvement. I also think a little of today's debate could have been avoided if we made sure that all read the tender papers sent for the train package south and the train package north. If one had read them, one would see that many of the concerns that have been raised today, there is no basis for it, for this is already regulated and taken into account in the papers. Once again, a more relevant debate could be held, given what we would like to see as challenges that we have to deal with in the future. To point to Onøe: Yes, Onkoe has some commercial routes, which the State has not purchased. What they have said is that, among other things, instead, because of lack of customer base, they are going to move the aircraft to other routes, for which they believe there is a greater customer base. So it's not like these planes are being parked on the ground; they're going to serve other areas. We might think it's good, and we might think it's creepy – probably depending on which airport you even socks to. But what we're talking about in the case of the railway is that the state is going to buy services, and then one has to deliver according to the contract. So it's a little bit on the side to come up with onions in this debate. So just remind me that all the companies that now exist in the railway sector, also existed earlier, but what was previously AS in the NSB umbrella, is now AS, or state-owned, that the state owns directly. That means you have closer contact with the Ministry of Transport now than you had before. One of the examples is the ticket company, which was raked down here. Before they delivered only to the NSB, now they deliver to the entire collective sector. It's actually a good progress for something that many people have wanted for a long time, but with which the left-hand side now suddenly hassles. Another example is the Railway Directorate, which has now established good cooperation between the railways and the rest of public transport, for example: on the North Jären, where the Jærbahnen is going to be part of the Columbus system in terms of route development, instead of being two independent companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2092	I would like to comment a little about the various posts that have been held today. I will begin with the articles of the Workers' Party. From a purely general railway policy standpoint, a general debate and the opposition's reality, where one wants monopoly and the most possible state governance, regulation and control, Sverre Myrlis's contributions were certainly interesting. But I can't quite see that it has something to do with this matter. I feel that Sverre Myrli mixes the cards a little bit there. With regard to the Center Party and Ivar Odnes, it's probably nice for the Center Party that they've found that in England, not everything works as well in terms of the competitive launching of trains, but what does Norway want to copy England? This is what is a bit of the benefit of Norway’s waiting for many years before starting these reforms. We're used to looking at Sweden – we've done that with regard to New Roads, and there's nothing to suggest that we can't do it with regard to trains as well. If you look at Svenska Järnvägar, they do not want to return to the time when it was monopoly. So my clear claim is that in a few years, the NSB will probably be where Svenska Järnvägar is today, that they are happy that we have reformed the railway sector. As far as SV is concerned, they are concerned that our reform is the reason why trains are being cancelled, that there is a competitive outsourcing that is the problem, and that therefore trains are being cancelled. It's rather the opposite – there's evidence that a need for competition, there's evidence that the NSB might need some alternative competitors, so that the actors will get better. In the case of Red: there is typically rhetoric far out on the left side about tough efficiency requirements. It is clear that the representative from Red does not have any experience of the functioning of the business community in Norway and how the private sector is doing every day. Every day you have to think about costs, and you have to have a hard-to-earth cost focus. In particular, the export industry is struggling enormously in international competition and competes with low-cost countries, China or any country. These are tough efficiency requirements, which Red sees as a problem. It is commonplace for most establishments in Norway — or indeed all establishments — and there is no need to protect the public, that they too should not be confronted with competition and efficiency requirements. In the last argument, Red, they were concerned that Norwegian tax money would disappear out of the country. I don't see the whole problem at Red. What's important here? Is it to provide the best possible train offer, so that as much as possible travel collectively, or is it to depend on who is to offer the service? That, I think, is a surprising angle in the debate from the Red, but perhaps not entirely unfamiliar.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2105	It was Morten Stordalen who said that the Workers' Party mixes trains and rails together – I think he said so. This is a rather interesting consideration from the Progress Party. Yes, think about it – a look at the relationship between trains and rails! Consider, for example: if one in a school debate was to see the connection between school day and homework! Think about it! Imagine if one in a health debate would see the link between prevention and treatment! Unheard of – it is quite unheard of that one should see the connection between trains and rails. So little understands the Progress Party of railway policy. That is quite significant. So I said something like that the Workers' Party made it like everything was pink earlier. Red is a nice color, but it hasn't been rose red on the railway – far from it – because over many years the railway appropriations were too low. That's why the red-green government in 2005 sat down and found out that there had to be something dramatic about the railways in Norway. Thus, from 2005 and beyond, rail investments were stepped up and, through the treatment of several national transport plans, further escalated. And that's good. But it really had to be stepped up, it had to be built more railways. Double tracks between Skøen and Asker were completed; there was progress in the development of double tracks on the Westfold Railway, on the Eastfold Railway, and on the Dovre Railway. This has produced results. That is why, after many lean years, NSB was able to deliver profits, because more trains were purchased, more railways were built, more trains went on, passengers flocked to. It was a success. That's what needs to be done. It is necessary to build more modern railways, several double-track sections, new trains must be purchased and multiple departures set up. It's that simple and so difficult. That's what's the solution to succeed in railway policy, to get more people to drive trains: build more railways, buy more trains, set up more departures and not draw more squares on the organisation map. That's what's going on right now. Finally, I believe that the Minister for Transport does not have his words. He actually referred – and I noted – to all the companies that now exist: everyone existed earlier, he said, but then within the NSB. Yes, the workshop company, the maintenance company, existed as a company in the NSB, owned by the NSB, but I knew that there was no separate material company, which is now renting out the material, and there was no ticket company of its own. The Minister of Transport says that all the companies existed earlier – I think that is simply not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2116	To the representative Igstad: SV and I think Entur is not a stupid company. I think Entur should have been created a long time ago. There are several governments that have neglected to reform the ticket system, coordinating the tickets. It should have been done a long time ago. I've told the council before, and I gave him credit for that. That's good. So to the representative Johnsen, who has misunderstood very much. I will not attribute it to him that he has misunderstood on purpose, but when the NSB is struggling with the crews and has to cancel trains, I say that it is the NSB's way of meeting the competition. So they need to rationalize, they need to be more efficient in order to meet the competition that stands at the door. That's why such things occur. In their zeal they then take a little too much Møller's tran, and then they say up too many people. That's my little analysis of it. I would like the government councils and parties to learn from what is happening in the two countries I also mentioned in my main post, namely in Switzerland, for example. There's probably no eastern blockland – I heard it was mentioned by the state council here instead. We don't have to compare ourselves to Eastern bloc countries, because they're partly in the process of being state railways. Very well known, Switzerland has to a large extent one company where rails and trains have not separated teams. Very familiar can be boasted by the train company in Switzerland, and I am familiar with the trains as the Swiss clocks – they go exactly. Then we have experience from England, and there were far too far-reaching similar reforms that Norway is about to undergo. They also took a lot of Møller's tears. They hopped up British Rail in 100 companies or some kind of violent action, but now polls show that 62-70 pst. wish the State to take over the operation of the railway again. Why? We have to ask ourselves that, and I would also like the Council of State and the government to ask exactly that: why has the attitude in England taken that way? Among other things, of course, there's a lot of chaos at first. Something has become better, a lot has been brought back to Network Rail, which is a state maintenance company, and the conglomerate of various maintenance companies has come into it. I would like to learn from this, and then I would like many other trains to go on 1 May on this very matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2127	The representative Sverre Myrli greeted me with a little visit and wondered why not trains and rails belonged together, when I in my post attacked Sverre Myrli to talk about everything else than what is involved in competition for passenger transport by train. Then you can ask the question back. It's perhaps strange, when the state is an organizer, whether it's on the way, at sea or in the air: is it really just one actor that's going to use the fairways, that road or that airspace? You can ask questions about that. I think it is surprising that the representative Sverre Myrli is so ready to build – initially planning – these rails. Yes, fortunately it has been a formidable bet with the Right Party and the Advance Party, together with the Left Party and the Christian Party. It is the bet of the times – never has it been so much invested, never has it been planned so much, and never should it have been built so much for as much money as under this government and the previous government, together with the cooperation parties. If we were to wait for the Workers' Party, we would have waited very, very long. So it's a little special with all this phobia against everything called competition, because think if the customer would get a better offer! That's the customer it's about. Every single day, fortunately, most of us can make concrete, good choices. We're picking out bad solutions. We can go to a grocery store, a gas station or a flower shop and choose exactly what to buy, choose goods – not for anyone to sit here and decide the range, or what to choose. We can choose different transport solutions every day. Fortunately, we have come so far, and at least the Progress Party will not return in time, when we were dictated and told what we could get to buy, and when. That's the big difference, that some of us actually have faith in competition and putting the customer in the center. That is the most important thing – that the customer can choose. And that's not what SV's representative Nävra says, that there's pay and poor pay terms. No one wins any competition in today's society that manages to keep up with poor human resources policies. Neither do the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, copy the worst solutions. Then you have not read the matter. So that's really right, what I said in the beginning, that maybe you haven't read the case before we debate it. I encourage the opposition parties to read the matter carefully to the next debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2140	Let me first clarify one thing. I think I said that all the companies that now exist, before were ASs in the NSB system -- I meant to say units. Some of them were ASs, others were organisational units. But they all existed more or less in the form they now exist in. The difference is that they now cover a much larger room than before. One more for the money. Those who work can help more people than they could before. I think that's good. It has been noted how one points to other countries. I think it would have been interesting if one actually visited those countries, talked to organizational authorities, traveled a little by train and got some experience. I did it a few years ago. In the Passover three years ago – I guess it's now – I was in Switzerland. I spent one day with the Swiss minister and the Swiss equivalent railway directorate. They sucked a little bit, because they said it's right that there's one big Swiss company, there's a couple of mediums, and then it's 60-70 small. It's 'a hedgehog' to organize this, he said. Everything is public owned in different ways, but it's not like you have one unit. One has a huge coordination job. That's why we thought: We don't go to the Swiss, so that every section – the Trander Railway, the Jærbanen, the Salt Pendant – should be owned by the counties, as it is in some Swiss regions, that it is simply the states or cantons, or what it is called, that owns them. We're going to have one owner, the state – not a split, which SV called for by pointing to the Swiss system. When one points to Germany, we were in Germany and we talked to the authorities there. Deutsche Bahn had just lost a tender in Baden-Württemberg, and the German Environment Party – the Greens – smiled on the transport minister and said: We have halved the costs, and we maintain the offer. Competition was also a good element for the left-hand side of German policy. Over 30 pst. by the German railway system is put at a competitive disadvantage. We're far behind if the Center Party thinks that's the goal. Then it points to England. Yes, I traveled to England too. England is not the same as Norway in terms of what the railway should be. The English challenged everything, including the infrastructure. We don't, because we think it would be crazy. Also the experience from England made it so that it didn't work. They've gone back on some of those things. That's very good. But I just want to remind you that if you look at the English railway today, regardless of whether a enjoys the system or not, England is one of the countries of Europe that has had the largest passenger growth, which has the best punctuality, and which has the best safety on the railway. But there are higher ticket prices – for all – because in England a non-taxable taxpayer spends money subsidising prices. That's what we're going to do in Norway, because we think the price effect is part of what's going to make people travel by rail to the cities instead of by their own private car. When one criticises other countries, one should also have got involved in what it actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2155	I can assure the Minister for Transport that I have previously visited Germany, Switzerland and Sweden to study the railways, and have seen both the good and the bad experiences these countries have with rail. The transport committee has recently been in Sweden and traveled by railway between Stockholm and Gothenburg and has then been able to arrive half an hour later because one has different players in the railway section who are competing to arrive first. I was a little inspired by the representative Johnsen when he pulled out all the positive things with Gjøvikbana, even free Children's Eggs for the kids on Saturdays. The railway reform and all these companies are becoming a cheek egg. There's a lot of things in it, and you don't have complete control of the different parts that are there. Gjøvikbana has been a success for us traveling with her, but it is not on the basis that she was put out to competition. Now we're getting a lot more trains. We feel that it is luxury to go into these new train sets, but the challenge for the Gjøvikbana now is that one does not have the capacity to run multiple trains. It is the structure of the track and the capacity of the track that is now bounding for greater traffic. And as I told you, the NSB is actually going with excess. Why can't we use that excess to make sure that the ticket prices are a little bit more popular on some routes for the travellers? We need a good interaction between the different actors, and the ticket system is not part of the competition. But it's a positive conclusion that one now has a larger interaction, and we already have that today with NSB's app, where one can buy train tickets and travel that are linked over several distances. I understand that the Enturs app also works in a complicated way. The centre part is aware that the train will leave when the passengers have ordered the ticket and know that the train will leave the platform. That's what people are busy about – that the train departures we're using should be busy and punctual.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2168	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2184	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2193	The Green Party at Per Espen Stoknes has submitted a Document 8 proposal asking the Transport Committee to consider a proposal to develop a potential study on the use of hyperloop technology in the transport of fish and persons, and to request the Government to set up its own secretariat to ensure Norwegian industrial and knowledge interests in Nordic cooperation on hyperloop development. Hyperloop is a new high-speed transport technology that uses pipes with very low air pressure to transport goods and persons. The low air pressure in the pipe makes it possible to move very energy-efficient and friction-free by means of an electric motor. This is not a fully developed technology, but I would like to thank the proposer and the Greens for a very interesting seminar to which the party has been invited, with hyperloop as a theme. In Finland, in the city of Salo, there is an interesting hyperloop development project. There's also a test track built outside Las Vegas in the United States, where there have been delegations from both Finland and Norway to look at this. There is also an interest in this field at Sintef in Trondheim. Hyperloop is not a fully developed technology, but it is an exciting and very interesting technology to follow developments. If this technology succeeds and is able to commercialize, it will be able to revolutionise both passenger and freight transport as we know it today. It will also contribute to the reduction of emissions, as this technology requires low energy consumption. The proposer wants both an opportunity study and a secretariat for this field. The Council's letter of reply to the Committee states, inter alia, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Hyperloop technology seems exciting, and if one succeeds in developing it into a safe and reliable mode of transport, with proper development costs, this technology will be able to revolutionise both passenger and freight transport as we know it today. The transport modes and Avinor have identified the use and development of technology as one of several areas of activity in their work on the next national transport plan. It would be natural to evaluate hyperloop in this context. The Directorate-General for Railways states that the agencies are familiar with the international initiative and follow developments closely.’ However, the Council of State concludes as follows: ‘My assessment is therefore that it is not appropriate to start an opportunity study now.’ The majority of the Committee, the Right, the Party of Advances, the Party of Centres and the Left, share that view. The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party believe that it can help further develop the technology by agreeing to launch an opportunity study, and has submitted a proposal that I address on behalf of the two parties. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Centre parties and is that the Per Espen Stoknes proposal is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2231	The representative of Ingarill Olsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2236	The development of new technologies is crucial for reducing emissions in the transport sector and creating an even better offer for travellers. This must be done in close interaction between private actors in the field of good ideas and the State that facilitates and owns the infrastructure and as an important contracting entity and orders. In recent years, we have significantly increased the research budget. It allows people and businesses with good ideas to get support for the development of new technologies. At the same time, Enova has increased its framework and assumed responsibility for the transport sector. It has provided completely new opportunities for the organisation of new technologies, which we are also beginning to see good results from. Hyperloop, Hayperloop -- or whether it's hyperloop, I got a little bit unsure about the pronunciation here on the fly -- is a new and exciting technology. So far in the research and development phase, there is a need for both testing and testing. It is important so that we can get an overview of how this technology can work for both passenger and goods transport. At the same time, it will provide more information on both investment and operating costs, operational stability, safety and other important aspects of the use of this type of technology. The original proposal for the Green Party is to conduct a potential study on the use of hyperloops for the transport of persons and fish between Oslo and Copenhagen. The same proposal was promoted by the Workers' Party and SV. As I said, we are positive about the work going on trying out the hyperloop technology, but in our opinion it would not be useful to start an opportunity study for a concrete distance until we have more experience in how this technology works. With all the challenges we face in the transport sector, we will give priority to implementing the national transport plan. Among other things, it is now important that we complete the railway investment both to cut down the travel distances for the inhabitants and to facilitate more goods to use the railway. A more detailed assessment of hyperloop and how this technology can be used in Norwegian trade betting will be relevant when the technology is sufficiently tested and in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2249	Today, we are considering proposals from the Green Party to conduct an opportunity study on the use of new technologies, called hyperloops, for the transport of fish and people. I record that the proposer believes that hyperloop fits well for a Norwegian and Nordic joint effort to ensure more environmentally friendly transport, increased value creation and more jobs. Furthermore, the proposer believes that if hyperloop is installed in the corridor between Oslo and Copenhagen, as well as between Oslo and Stockholm, it can be assumed that this will be a preferred mode of travel for today's 6.4 million annual travelers by aircraft and trains between these destinations. I also note that the proposer believes that leading Norwegian energy competence, e.g. in drilling, pipes, infrastructure, subsea and tunnels, can be applied in a new way, and that Norwegian fish can have faster market access in a very environmentally efficient and silent way. The Party welcomes the development of new technologies and is very pleased that there is now a major development of technologies in the transport sector, both in the low- and zero-emission technologies and for autonomous vehicles. Developing new technologies has led us to have the most environmentally friendly car park in Norway. That's very good. Hyperloop technology is also exciting, and the Progress Party agrees that if we succeed in developing it into a safe and reliable mode of transport, with proper development costs, hyperloop technology could be revolutionary in the provision of transport to the population. Despite the fact that hyperloop technology is exciting and can become revolutionary in the long term, the Progress Party believes that such an opportunity study as the proposal of the representative will be to anticipate the events at this stage. Firstly, we agree with the considerations of the Council of State, which refers to the fact that the government has significantly increased the appropriations allocated to the railways and the rates of action for increased capacity and shorter travel time. We agree that this must be at the top of the priority list, and this work must be completed before we can prioritize funds for, for example, hyperloop, which is probably less suitable for shorter sections with relatively tight station structures, which are, therefore, the sections where the everyday challenges are greatest for most people. So we believe that the everyday challenges have to be solved before we can afford to start work on hyperloop development, which is probably a long way into the future. Furthermore, the Progress Party agrees that hyperloop technology is a technology that we must follow closely in the years to come – and in the future when we have solved the challenges of the present. In addition, when we know more about experiences in other countries, among others. with regard to investment costs, operational stability, safety, travel times, maintenance costs and operating economy, these may be technologies and solutions that are more relevant. The Progress Party will therefore vote against the proposal to develop a potential study related to the use of hyperloop, but will follow the development of hyperloop technology in the coming years with excitement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2270	The centre batch has a great sense of evaluating new and more efficient means of transport. The fact that we now have a proposal for a feasibility study on the construction of hyperloops between Oslo and Copenhagen for the transport of fish and people is exciting, but the Senterpartie believes that this is such an extensive distribution that it should be considered in the work of the next national transport plan. There is now a wide-ranging development in the use of technologies in the transport sector. This applies to both low and zero emission technologies and autonomous vehicles. The centre party thinks that we should be ready to deploy new technologies that will help achieve the goal of Norway becoming a low-carbon society in the future. Hyperloop technology can certainly be one of these new solutions that can revolutionize both passenger and freight transport as we know it today. The current national transport plan has identified the use and development of technologies as one of several areas of activity. It would then be natural to evaluate hyperloop in this context. It is now possible to test and test the technology internationally, and it is interesting to note that testing also takes place in the research environment in Trondheim, which assesses the technology for its area. The centre party believes that it is not right today to launch a hyperloop study between Oslo and Copenhagen, and that we should not give priority to this now. Today, we have major challenges in road and rail transport, which must be given priority over launching a transport solution that has not yet been developed. The assessment of the centre party is therefore that it is not appropriate to start a feasibility study now, and we will not support the proposal. At the same time, we believe that this is a technology that transport modes have to follow closely, and that we can assess more closely when we know more about the experience that has been gained in other countries, among other things. with regard to investment costs, operational stability, safety, travel times, maintenance costs and operating economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2281	Hyperloop is an immature technology, of course it is, but also professional experts in Sintef think this is exciting. It's an exciting technology – maybe we'll talk about 40 minutes to Copenhagen from Oslo! So that's the point that Norway has quite good assumptions, we have a good starting point for success in the sense that we have oil industry, we have maritime industry, and we have high technology. And if we're going to think about a green shift, give it some content, we have to make some concrete suggestions. This is one of them. You often get hit by some criticism because you have airlocks – you're naive in your belief in the green shift, it doesn't give jobs, etc. Then it's important to be able to point out something concrete, as this hyperloop proposal is so far. Not only is it exciting in transport, but it is also exciting in nutrition, and that is not least what I had hoped more people in the hall had understood, not least the government parties. There's of course a lot of broken ground here, and that's why it has to be researched. This is also why SV wants an opportunity study and that this should be investigated. Most people know how busy SV has been of the green shift in maritime industry. In this area, it's possible to point to alternative workplaces, alternative industries, and I think this with the hyperloop is a little bit in the same loop, although it's a lot further ahead. I think it is rather strange that this proposal to investigate does not receive greater support. Everyone also knows that SV is a railway party. It is not intended that such an investigation should be carried out at the expense of the railway investigation – it is also a matter of where the list is provided for such an investigation. But what's exciting about such an investigation is to look at the Norwegian possibilities. It is not enough to wait for technological developments, i.e. research in other countries, but it has to be related to Norwegian conditions and Norwegian opportunities. That's why we want this investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2292	The left really cheers on the Green Party when they come up with great views of applying and developing new technologies to solve the major challenges we have. I have to say -- the Greens have really raised a lot of issues, and hyperloop is one of them. We know that there are several environments and an international environment that study a lot on this. That's why the Left is so optimistic that this might be a good solution once in a while. When that happens, we don't dare predict yet, but it's important that the Norwegian research communities and university communities take part in the work and actually participate in studying, analysing and not least developing this. It was said that SINTEF has an environment that clearly sees this as an opportunity. SINTEF is in such a role that they can seek research funding from the Research Council, from the EU, from Enova and from other environments, so that there can also be some money in the pure research. I see in the response from the Council of State and from the Ministry of Transport that the Directorate of Railways is clearly concerned about this, is up-to-date on the possibility and, not least, looks at the need to participate and study and think further about whether this is good. Although the Left will not vote in favour of a decision on an opportunity study directly on the Oslo-Copenhagen section, we believe that there are very good intentions in the proposal, given that hyperloop can be something that Norwegian environments should also be involved in and contribute to. That it can be a solution for e.g. fish, I think I'm very exciting, which is from Trundellag. With all the trails and the challenges we have when we transport the fish to our customers, it is clear that there are great opportunities to make this more effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2303	How do we think when we think about the future? I, as a strategy advisor, have run processes of forward-looking in many different industries across four different continents. One thing goes again, and that's that the experience we gain through a professional life is stored in the brain as kind of mental models, inner images of what reality really is. The experience we have in history easily prevents us from looking forward. Typically, since today we have ships, trains, cars and planes – we have had that for a century or two – we will also have ships, cars, trains and planes in the future. We call it the foresight field for rear-view mirror analysis. It makes us easily blind to trend breaks, fluctuations and discontinuities that change our social structure. In the future or foresight, there are two pitfalls. One is the investigation trap, and the other is the rule of action. The investigation case is about an investigator and an investigator and never comes to do anything and implement things. The rule of action is that one is so busy that one should solve today's problems, that one does not have time to lift his eyes and see what comes to you. In both situations, you can be locked down. That's what this hyperloop proposal is all about, because it's easy to stick to the mindset of the past. I have included some historical examples here today from my large collection of these. For example, in 1830, Dionysius Lardner, a professor of natural philosophy in London, thought that high-speed train journeys would never be possible because passengers would be unable to breathe — and die of oxygen deficiency. Thomas Edison, an ingenious inventor, said that the phonograph, as he himself invented, probably never came to have any particular commercial value. Lord Kelvin, mathematician and physicist of the British Royal Society, believed that heavier flying machines were simply an impossibility. The Harvard Economic Society specialists said in the fall of 1929 that a longer depression like the one we had in 1920-1921 was completely outside the realm of probability. One more, my favorite expert: there was consensus among geologists in Norway's geologic survey in 1958 in their letter to the Stortinget: one can ignore the possibility of coal, oil, sulphur or gas being found on the continental shelf along the Norwegian coast; one can assume that the continental shelf has the same rock formations as on land in similar areas. In Norway we often struggle with innovation. We were against color-tv when it came. Many were opposed to cell phones and saw it as a sort of jape phenomenon. The Boklöv style in the jump was countered, skating on skis was not quite Norwegian or classical, and ticket booking on the Internet was countered by SAS and NSB and considered to be a dream. What we see now, is the opposite, is that other actors and the competence environment invest heavily more places internationally to get the first operational hyperloop sections in place. It'll probably be Salo-Turku. Actors like the Finnish government, Nokia, Deutsche Bahn, Europe's largest train operator, Virgin founder Richard Branson, who is behind Virgin Atlantic, have gone into hyperloop, and Elon Musk is working with The Boring Company. Several others, too, are taking this technology forward quickly. It has come much further in very few years than anyone had thought just three years ago. However, – quite immediately – right-wing alerts that they are going to vote down the proposal for hyperloop investigation. The representative said in an interview: ‘It’s very premature to talk about hyperloop from Oslo to Copenhagen. Right is a technology-optimistic party, but we want to spend the money on the big problems that we already know about’ – building roads, trains. He goes on to say: ‘We have so many problems with the way and way per day, that we have to give priority to the money on the problems we are already facing.’ In other words, because of the problems of the past and today, we don't get to think properly about the future. It's the opposite of forward direction and optimism. This is actually putting up to bomb on future value creation and jobs, if we don't start preparing for technology revolutions that we can see coming. We'll be late for the hyperloop take-off, and the technology and patents will be somewhere else. Sintef and Rambøll are already in the process of betting, but need early start-up public support and projects. But with the Right we go backwards into the future also in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2329	There is a major development in technology, a development closely followed by Norway, both by the government and by Norwegian research communities and commercial operators. There's a lot of exciting happening going on. To be specific to the hyperloop project now is not the same as not looking at the possibility in the future. It doesn't mean that one closes his eyes to everything else that happens. We think it's exciting. I met Elon Musk when we invited him to Norway in April two years ago. We want to be part of what's going on in the world. At the same time, there are many uncertainties about hyperloop, with costs, with operational safety, with capacity and so on. That's why it's starting a concrete project now, an investigation project, a little premature. This does not mean that one thus closes its eyes, but I think that when the Directorate of Railways says that this is one of the things they think is exciting, which can complement the way we transport ourselves, it is natural that they follow in that work also towards the next national transport plan. I'm going to back up on that. I think it's good we have a government directorate that's so offensive, but I can also say that this offensive is supported by almost all the agencies and companies that are under my jurisdiction at least. Chapter 3 is the main chapter of the national transport plan. It's about digitisation. Because even though the social debate is essentially about which road and which railway to build, where the next cycle path is going, and where one is going to invest in airports, it's the technology that's going to change the way we transport, as to how we plan to travel, how we carry out travel, and what kind of vehicle and craft we choose. I fully agree with the Greens that we must not allow yesterday's vessel or vehicle to limit what we think is possible in the future. That's exactly why a lot of excitement happens. Just a few days ago, I was at the ITS Norway conference. We talked about autonomous ships, remote towers, autonomous bridge cars, autonomous buses and national timetables on the app. Only the five things are examples where Norway is far ahead, through the environment in Kongsberg, on Gjøvik, Stavanger, Trondheim, from state companies, private research institutes, private capital environment and businesses. We're at the forefront of a lot of this. As late as yesterday, I was at the Fereners Airport in Valdres to demonstrate full-scale autonomous incubators – two pieces, programmed to clear the entire runway. We're way ahead. When we also know that it is possible to imagine battery-powered aircraft, which has also been occupied by the Greens, it may well be a good way to get to Copenhagen in 10-20 years as the hyperloop in at least as long. We must not think here that here we have found an eucalyptus solution to control everything else, when we see the width that is. Then I think that here we can actually be and be drivers – in some places through knowledge and competence, elsewhere through capital, in some places because the state is ordering, in other places because we run and finance the research environment. We have a wide portfolio, as I have mentioned. In some areas, we will cooperate more with others. I have had discussions with the Finnish Minister about the hyperloop plans in Finland. The Finnish government is not in and is funding and adopting this. It's an opportunity study they're doing there as well. It's a private initiative, if you can call it that, that far from being as mature as a person gets the impression from some of the posts here. But it's really exciting. At the same time, I think it is important that we also be able to look at the challenges we have here today. Most people's transport problems aren't the one you take to Copenhagen once in a while, that's the one you take in and out of the big cities every day to get to work, that's the ones you take from the West or from North Norway with fish to the markets in Europe. Then we have to be able to solve those challenges too, while at the same time being able to have the perspective of all the different technologies under development, and where Norway has more prerequisites to contribute in some areas than in others. What we have of clusters in shipping is usually the best area where Norway can help change the world. What we've done in electric cars shows that as a nation, we don't necessarily have to make all the ingredients ourselves, but we can create a system that makes the Nordics more than any other people concerned with electric cars being cool, electric cars we want to buy, and it helps to develop and inspire other countries to copy and do the same things. I think we're going to be involved and contribute in many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2346	No one's ever asked for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2353	I'm going to be pretty short. I would just like to make a small comment to the representative Stoknes and the contribution from the Greens/Greens/EFA. For me, this isn't a discussion for or against the technology hyperloop, because it's incredibly exciting. I am largely curious about everything that is of new technology in the transport sector and otherwise, because it can both mean that we can have a more environmentally friendly and better transport sector, and it can help create jobs in Norway. What I said earlier, to which reference was made in the speech to the representative of Stoknes, is about the concrete proposal for an opportunity study between Oslo and Copenhagen. I think it's premature to start with an opportunity study before we've had enough research, and before we've had enough of this technology. In addition, I think that the type of balancing belongs best to the work on the national transport plan. That was the background to that comment, and I think that both the Council of State and others here have been quite forward-looking in putting new technologies into use in the transport sector. It also means that there is good will to be involved in facilitating R & D activities and contributing to new technologies being researched and tested, and that we can use new technologies in the transport sector when it is ready. But to start an opportunity study based on such an inexperienced technology as this, I think, is too early.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2364	When is it too early, and when is it too late? I want to mention another industry that we discussed in Norway in the 1990s, namely wind power. That was when an immature technology was thought of research and development, and Norway found out that we could research it. There were a lot of good wind scientists in Norway who did a lot of good, but what the Danes did was that they built up their industry instead, and today they have the world's largest wind power company, Vestas, that exports billions of euros per year. The technology development that Norwegian research helped to facilitate in the 1990s did not come out of anything, because there was never a proper public investment like that of the Danes. The representative pointed out that it is too early for the possibility study, because we do not have the data base needed. I can tell you that potential studies have already been done, for example. between Tallinn and Helsinki and between Helsinki and Stockholm. And now Deutsche Bahn, Europe's largest train operator, has been counting on potential studies between Berlin and Scandinavia – if they are going to go for Malmö, they will go for Gothenburg, they will go for Copenhagen? This is already an ongoing work and work that has been done. Our proposal was simply coined that Norway should know its visitation time here. Now it just comes to me in English, but this is a window opportunity, which is open for a while. After the development of the first solutions, those starting to deliver to the first successful, operationally safe path will have the patents. They will have the contracts, and they will be able to build a supplier industry for a new type of infrastructure that can probably amount to billions of dollars – hundreds of billions of dollars – beyond the next decades. That's the possibility, the open window that we don't quite know when to close, and we're going to wait for the next NTP and take this in as part of it, I'm afraid that that window has been closed when we get to action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2375	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2391	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2401	It is a great pleasure for me to present a matter that – to put it that way – has been part of the whole course of the Trondheim Environmental Package. In 2008, when it was created, I was one of the initiators, and not least the Left was one of the parties that was involved and signed on how to cooperate on getting to the Environmental Package Trondheim. What really happened in the winter of 2008, about ten years ago? Yes, then came the first climate agreement on Stortinget. It was said quite clearly around cities, in other municipalities and in county municipalities that it is okay, it has to be contributed nationally, but most of it has to be done locally. It was a clear signal to us politicians who at the time were at local level, to help contribute to action. In Trondheim, for example, there were no plans. new E6 around the city. There were no plans for better bus connections and other cycling and walking measures. It became a purely political initiative to address this, and in April 2008 several parties signed up. It's been like this in Trondheim, without going into the whole story, that a lot of parties have been behind the environmental package. Now we've come to step 3, and that's what we're going to adopt today. Then it's the recovery period you can see separately. It was until 2024, but you can already see that there are major measures, and you need longer time to get more money into what you want in Trondheim. In particular, it is dependent on user funding to regulate something more of the traffic. That's what you're applying for here, extending from 2024 to 2029, and possibly 2033. In addition, the collection tariffs and the discount system need to be changed – the tariffs due to the need for money and not least the discount system due to new regulations by the Ministry of Transport and a simpler and better system for the collection of user financing. That's probably the main reason Trondheim is applying. So it's interesting what they're actually going to spend this money on -- it's always something that's important. It is local initiatives, and it is important that the Storting follow up on their wishes and purposes, but at the same time it must be clear that if any of these proposals or measures become more expensive, portfolio management needs to be used, so that something has to give up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2417	What I think is important in Trondheim now is Nydalsbrua. I don't know if everyone knows that name, it's not very familiar. It's actually new Release Bridge – the president is also familiar with the place – we're talking about, but Nydalsbrua is the official name. You now have Trondheim and the environmental package shoot the building at a much earlier time than what was in the NTP. It is political decisions both in the county and in the city council that suggest that you want to do it this way. I think it's going to be a very good arrangement for Trondheim that they get the elongated environmental bridge, as I often call it, because it will clearly relieve both the city centre and other congested road sections.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2420	I must say I share the joy with Gunnes. This is a good case for Trondheim and Trøndelag. The working party will halve greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector by 2030. Major urban areas will be particularly important here. In metropolitan areas, traffic growth shall take place through the use of public transport, bicycles and corridors. It will contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and local pollution and to the resolution of congestion problems in urban areas. It is also important to ensure that public transport is free of emissions. Trondheim has made demanding decisions and set necessary, but high, environmental goals for her city. Together with Trøndelag, the county has increased the collective share each year, and in recent years separately between neighbouring municipalities and Trondheim. It's a regional engine. Trondheim is also a historic town with one centre. Here they have taken great action in terms of bicycles and corridors, and it is incredibly great to be able to ride along the spring and away from car traffic. They have created their own bike strategy, and they succeed every day in making the city better and more environmentally friendly and have public health in focus. Today's collective structure has great limitations in and out of Trondheim. You don't get any more buses through the center of rush time, and you have to get better access. This is why they have now taken up the task of introducing metrobuses and metrobus coaches — a major boost for the municipality, but also for the county, and it is important that they succeed. We know, for example. that the fall in the number of rural roads is increasing throughout the country. We believe that the state must be willing to finance a greater share of the investment costs. So we're proposing to increase the state's share from 50 to 70 pst. the costs of large collective investment in large cities. We proposed to strengthen the investment by 300 million. kr in 2018 in addition to the government’s proposals. This strengthening of funding will include, inter alia: be able to speed up the completion of projects and make it possible to develop a larger part of a coherent urban cycle road network and to further strengthen collective provision through multiple take-offs. Every collective passenger costs money. If we are to achieve our own climate objectives, we also need to contribute to the operation of collectives for the county. So we're going to point this out in our own comment. This can be done either through the reward scheme or through the framework grant to the county. Then we're glad that we're getting support in the need to give the opportunity to expand the current loan framework beyond 1 billion. kr in order to avoid that the shooting of Nydalsbrua causes major disadvantages for the implementation of other important projects in the Trondheim Environmental Package. We remind ourselves that it would not have been necessary for our proposal in the NTP to set off 400 million. kr until the bridge had only been realised in the period. The launch of a four-field road between Trondheim and Stjørdal by new Veiger challenges the climate goals of our city if one does not do other things at the same time. Then it will be important to follow up the Storting decision on electrification of the Trander track and increased frequency. Another challenge is freight transport in and around the city. Now we get a temporary freight terminal. Here the municipality is working well with a good strategy, and the state has to follow up with enough funds to put the infrastructure around a final freight terminal. I'm addressing proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2443	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2448	I would like to refer to the rapporteur's detailed statement and just make a few comments. Firstly, the urban environment agreement covers the entire portfolio of the environmental package Trondheim. The agreement also includes projects/actions that will be funded by means of reward and projects/actions on the national road that will be financed by funding from the framework of the programme area actions in urban areas with urban environment agreements or urban growth agreements. Through the scheme of State grants for large county collective infrastructure projects, the State will cover half of the total cost of the project MetroBuss i Trondheim step 1. In this context, I would like to stress that the government is committed to providing a 50 pst grant, neither more nor less. It provides predictability for both parties. This is much more than what you got from the red-green government. Once again, the Workers' Party proposes 70 pst. It's probably a result of learning. But the coverage is still unclear. Now, the Labour Party can say every time they're downgraded, that they can move the same money to the next project, in full assurance that it'll be downgraded there as well. The case has been dealt with in the municipality of Trondheim and the municipality of Süd-Trøndelag. In the opinion of the Right, local policy treatment makes it difficult to change the rules of the game because the local parties have agreed on the rules of the game. However, the committee procedure opens the possibility of applying for an extension of the loan framework by 500 million. kr, if the parties so agree. The right hand, the Progress Party and the Left assume that the rates can be reduced by applying current interest or fixed interest rates to the calculation of costs. It is assumed that the parties agree to this. The project Umweltpakket Trondheim will be prioritised through portfolio management. This means that actions are prioritised on the basis of the overall assessments based on contributions to target achievement, available resources, socio-economic profitability, planning status and planning and implementation capacity. Changes may be made within the package to ensure rational progress and financial management. In case of an increase in the cost of the projects/measures, the portfolio shall be reduced. I think it's important to notice this. This implies that any increase in the cost of individual projects has to be balanced locally. This is to the extent that a principle I am familiar with over the years as a member of the Oslopackak 3. The Ministry of Transport is opening to advance 800 million. of the State funds with tolls for the project rv. 706 Nydalsbrua with connections. The precondition for any advance shooting is that there will be no need to increase the power to raise the borrowing power beyond the level assumed in step 2, i.e. 1 billion. kr. This is an important signal that ensures the rational development of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2463	Today we are dealing with the Environmental Package Trondheim Step 3. Here we have another 'package' that the people and at least not the drivers want. I notice that this proposition is presented on the basis of local policy decisions which wish to extend the collection period and changes in the tariff and discount system. The Protocol provides for a five-year extension of the recovery period until the end of 2029. In addition, changes are proposed to the tariff and discount system, such as: will increase the average tariffs by 2 kr per pass. This proposal imposes additional financial burdens on citizens and drivers. The progress party believes that this is wrong. We want to lighten the financial burden on the drivers instead of imposing additional economic costs on them. The background to this proposal is a local political desire both to extend the recovery period and to increase the rate of excise duty. In the government, the Progress Party is part of a committed cooperation with both the Right and the Left, both of which wish to extend the collection and increased rates. In addition, we approach Frp and respect local democracy. Consequently, the Progress Party will vote in favour of the proposal, despite the fact that we have voted against it locally and that we believe that the decisions taken locally mean that the drivers must bear an excessive burden. The progress party wants to make everyday life easier for the country's drivers. That is why we have proposed measures that will alleviate the burdens that local politicians in Trondheim want to impose on them. Firstly, together with the other government parties, we have assumed that toll tariffs can be lowered, based on market interest rates or the fixing of interest rates, if the parties agree. This will make it possible to reduce the toll burden compared to that to which it is added to the proposal and which is based on local policy, against the votes of the Progress Party. Secondly, the Progress Party wants to reduce the number of bombings. Originally, a ceiling of 110 passages per month is added for both tariff categories and all vehicles with a valid piece and agreement. The Progress Party believes that this roof is too high and will impose an unreasonable financial burden on the drivers, in particular for families with children with additional needs to drive children to and from kindergarten, school and leisure activities. We therefore believe that the pass-by roof needs to be significantly lower in order to avoid a large financial burden that is completely unreasonable. Unfortunately, the Progress Party alone is going to want to reduce the toll burden and make everyday life easier for Trondheim’s drivers. The working party proposes to ask the government to contribute 70 pst. State funding of MetroBuss. I want to show here that the bulk of the population has added to base 50 pst. grants for collective actions in the major cities, which are significantly more than the Workers' Party contributed when they themselves were in government. I also notice that the Workers' Party is still pointing out that they believe that the State should finance up to 70 pst. of large collective projects. The use of the word «until» is very little obligatory, and I put great doubts about the credibility of the proposal of the Workers' Party. Based on the Workers' Party's own allocations for public transport over eight years in government, this is also unlikely to be credible. I also note that SV in its comments refers to the fact that the City Council in Trondheim believes there is a need for increased support for the operation of public transport, and on this basis the State is asking for increased support through the reward scheme or for increased framework grants to the county municipalities. The right-wing-Fremskrittsparte-Left government, with the support of the Christian People's Party, has historically granted much to transport, and the appropriations for collective action in and around urban areas are historically high. When SV was in government, however, they did not contribute more than up to 20 pst. financing for urban areas. So the sitting government contributes 50 pst. There is a big difference, there is a class difference, and I notice that SV has significantly higher ambitions on behalf of a government with the Advance Party, than they had on behalf of themselves when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2480	The Trondheim Stage 3 Environmental Package is a five-year review involving an extended collection period and the increased revenue will help the municipality and county to finance its part of the MetroBus project, as well as connecting points and walking and cycling paths. The central party wishes to vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation on the matter. We think it's good to open up to shoot 800 million. of the State funds with tolls for the project rv. 706 Nydalsbrua, or Released bridge, with connections. We have also noticed that there are expectations about state funding of the Release Bridge, and that what was inside NTP 2014-2023 is not followed up in NTP 2018-2029. It is positive that the county council and the municipality show the willingness to support the development of this bridge, and it is necessary to allow, if necessary, to extend the loan framework beyond 1 billion. kr. With regard to the proposal of the representative Johnsen, he states that the Progress Party believes that the toll burden on the drivers is too high. But as I understand it, it is a state council from the Progress Party that promoted this matter, so it is a kind of double communication that is now being promoted, which makes me quite uncertain about what the Progress Party really believes in this matter – whether there is a very big gap between the Progress Party on the Stortinget and the Progress Party in the Government, and whether it is a kind of double communication. Another thing in this case is that there is being established a practice in which urban priorities are removed from popular governance through so-called portfolio management. The decision on what action is being taken first, and what progress we are going to take, is being removed from elected bodies and into the boardroom and directorate. The centre lot is not the subject of such a development. We still want elected representatives to have control of the Community's funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2491	Indeed, in the transport policy of the major cities, all parties now agree on one important point: that all growth in passenger traffic should be taken with collective, bicycle and gangways. It's a fantastic consensus. There is never such a small revolution — both in the transport sector and in urban development. Even the Progress Party is aware of this, it is fantastic. Those who make themselves the best friend of the car also agree that the goal must be that there should be no more car traffic in and around the big cities. The zero growth target does not mean that we should never be involved in road projects, but rather that we want to give priority to road projects that make traffic safer, rather than large-scale constructions that contribute to more car traffic. I think the hall is familiar with that. To achieve the zero growth target, urban packages or urban growth agreements are a very important instrument. This is something completely new, and it's something very good -- one of the best tools we have. SV will therefore vote for the recommendation in this setting. But if we're going to reach the zero growth target, it's important to look at the content and arrangement of the urban packages. How strong are we taking? How strong is the grip of the city packages? Is it possible to make an even greater contribution to the effective use of the packages in order to prevent growth in car traffic? In this urban package we suggest some grip in that direction. First of all, we think it is important and right that the state should take 70 pst. of the costs of large collective projects in general, not only 50 pst. We have also made it visible that it is possible to find room for these kinds of priorities in our alternative state budgets. There we have proposed to increase the appropriations for public transport in the counties by 200 million. NOK 500 million and 500 million. kr in increased rewards for the big cities. Secondly, we believe that the possibility of an urban runway should be explored in order to ensure sufficient capacity on central lines of public transport in Trondheim. The bus route structure will be changed from 2019 onwards. There is a need to explore an urban path to ensure capacity in the future as well as to capture large development and/or transformation projects on the Sluppen-Elgeseter-Nyhavna-Lilleby-Rotvoll route, with possible extension to Dragvoll. We are therefore promoting proposals for such an investigation. But we do not want to commit to which trajectory it will lie in, and will therefore vote against the loose proposals of Red. Finally, we support the ongoing development of E6, Jakkoya–Klett–Setervegen. It may be surprising for someone, but a central reason why we're in favour of it is that we want to ensure increased accessibility for buses. We must ensure that the buses are not in line, and thus make public transport more attractive. That is why we propose to establish two collective fields on the new four-field road, in line with local SV proposals. To the representative Johnsen, who refers to a history of SV's views on support for urban bets, on urban packages, and talks about 20 pst. and up to 50 pst. He also referred to 70 p.m., in the proposals of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left. How far back are we going? I don't think Gerhardsen knew about city packages. We have referred to alternative budgets, and we are honest. We refer to areas where we want to take the money from and where we want to spend the money. I've asked for honesty a lot of times in the budget here in the hall. Urban growth agreements are very important. It's very important tools, and I long to see my own urban package, the Busker urban package, which is probably coming this year. It has not yet come into place; there are not yet bombs in the Drammen. That's why the collective share is incredibly low, while the car density is incredibly high. With this, I address the proposals that the Socialist Left Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2518	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2524	As politicians, we should work to help people get a simpler and better everyday life. For many, having good transport solutions means getting to and from work and to and from cultural services, leisure activities, school, friends and family in a simple and good way. It is about expanding living and working areas so that workers and employers find each other where it is possible for families to strike roots, while at the same time having a large impact on where they can work. If we destroy it every day by making travel time too long and too sloppy, it means that people get less freedom in everyday life. This means that a more frequent person has to move in order to have the job you want, but with less satisfaction for the spouse. I believe it is important that children and young people can take root and that families can establish themselves. This is precisely why it is so important that we provide good transport opportunities both in the city and to and from the cities. Environmental package step 3 is a revision of the existing Environmental package step 2. This is a local political desire after local political treatment, so when the Central Party and others are wondering where the ideas came from, they should talk to the local politicians. I am concerned that we should listen to local wishes, although I do not always agree with them. It is about allowing one to develop the urban areas in which one lives and where the voters have given a majority of solutions. The changes proposed here are designed to adapt to the environmental package and to the obligations of the urban environment agreement and associated zero growth targets. According to local authorities, this is an important prerequisite for achieving the zero growth target with the changes proposed here. We have taken them into account in what we promote for Stortinget. These changes shall put the municipality and county council in a position where they can contribute their half to MetroBuss through the so-called 50/50 scheme. In addition, the funds shall go towards node development, the development of coherent networks for walking and cycling and the realisation of road projects included in the environmental package. One of them is the Nydalsbrua, formerly the Release Bridge, where we open so that a local should be able to advance appropriations, so that one can get started faster on construction. I think that is absolutely necessary. I myself have been and seen in the field several times, both with local business and local politicians, and there is no doubt that the bottleneck makes everyday life less pleasant for many travelers, regardless of which means of transport you use. It is important that the state participates and contributes financially in this, both because it allows the tolls to be lower than they would otherwise be, and because it provides predictability for the realisation of the project. Under today's government, with the so-called rewards, we've made sure to get more than a double of the appropriations, almost a triple. For the last four years it was granted approx. SEK 5.1 billion to the reward scheme, up from 1.8 in the previous four years. It's good that there's a lot of commitment in the Storting to make sure that there's still a good deal of effort on the part of the state in the cities as well. But I think most people who make assessments think that one bird in their hand is better than ten on the roof. When you can have $5.1 billion in your hand over 1.8 with new promises, I think most people see where you get the best development of the public infrastructure. It's about predictability. When someone promises “up to 70 pst,” we know that in many cities it has been closer to 0 and 10 pst. than the 70 pst. If a few investments are to be made in the extent that a planner in Trondheim, Bergen, Stavanger, Oslo and other cities, there must be predictability of how much money is actually there. Promiseing 'up to 70 p.m.' as some parties here do, sounds very offensive, but history suggests that many investment projects would not have been carried out with the money that had actually been granted. The bourgeois majority, where the Left now sits in government and the Christian People's Party can still be proud of the budgetary agreements we have had, has made sure that Trondheim can now build a completely different bus system than what one has been able to get before. And at the same time, it's important to remember that money is taken from large and important road projects. This means, among other things: that the E6 investments north and south of Trondheim would not be the same reality if one had done as SV here suggests. I think that for the Trondelag region it is important to have good transport solutions in Trondheim, but it is also important that all the surrounding towns and cities have good transport paths between them, and that we also develop the railway in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2545	It opens for line chord shifts. – No one has asked for a line, and we then go back to the ordinary list of speakers. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2552	I chose to take it as an article and not as a reply to the Council of State. There is a bit of hack in the CD from the Progress Party that there has never been as much money as it is now. That's correct, but there's never been any greater need. So in the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV, it does not say ‘up to 70 pst.’, it says ‘70 pst.’ and it was not ‘up to 70 pst.’ that was proposed in our alternative state budget, it was 70 pst. ‘Up to 70 pst.’ was in the context of the NTP, and it was based on the obligations of the municipalities, the city councils, for congestion and for buses. It was not possible to increase investments on the MetroBus track in the previous period because it is under development now. When the county took over the public transport after a test project in Trondheim, the county municipality spent 40 million. kr. If you're going to take the passenger increase, you're going to need 400 million. NOK 2 in 2 years. That's what's behind us saying it's not going to be taken from high school or become a worse offer. If we're going to achieve our environmental goals, we're going to have to increase our efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2557	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2574	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2583	I would like to thank the Committee for a good process and for a good cooperation in dealing with this matter. We are currently discussing a representative proposal from SV to give county municipalities access to set environmental requirements in tenders for commercial bus routes. As of today's date, Section 11 of the Professional Transport Act does not authorise the placing of environmental requirements in tenders relating to specific routes for buses, and the proposal for a representative therefore requires an amendment to the Professional Transport Act. The proposers believe that such access for local policy-makers to set environmental requirements in the transport sector is important for the achievement of the major cities’ climate objectives, and a key instrument for converting road traffic into low and zero emissions. I believe that the action the proposers here want to implement is the wrong way to go, and that such action will be of little use and work against its purpose. There's several reasons for that. First of all, I point out that, unlike local air pollution, greenhouse gas emissions are a global environmental problem, so that the effect of one gram of CO2 emissions will be the same, regardless of where the emissions occur. In order to achieve the most cost-effective use of instruments, emissions of CO2 should be regulated as far as possible by general, cross-sectoral instruments and not as proposed by SV in this proposal for a representative. Furthermore, I fear that the measure proposed by the SV representatives may work against their intention and damage an industry that is already characterised by marginal profitability. There is no doubt that such access for county municipalities to submit environmental requirements in tenders for commercial bus routes could impose significant additional costs and reduced profitability on the bus industry. This could lead both to an increase in ticket prices for customers and to the closure of scheduled services due to a lack of profitability. If that is the case, it will in turn lead to increased passenger car traffic. And then the proposers meet themselves at the door and create a lower collective offer for the country's citizens, while at the same time facilitating an increase in passenger car traffic. I believe it is important to listen to what the bus industry itself says about the possible consequences of such measures that SV here wants to implement. The industry expresses great concern about the consequences of access for county municipalities to submit environmental requirements in tenders for commercial bus routes. NHO Transport shows, among other things: that environmental requirements for commercial bus routes through the Professional Transport Act will be sufficient to favour companies and reduce the possibility of a market-based offer in an industry where several express bus routes have already been reduced or closed due to a lack of profitability. This will be a loss both for districts and for residents without a car in cities based on both work and leisure trips on a wide range of collective services. Thus, the SV’s proposal can ultimately be both environmentally hostile and district hostile, and can do nothing but impose additional financial burdens on an industry characterised by marginal profitability. I note that SV believes that the possibility to impose environmental requirements in tenders for commercial bus routes is an access for local politicians to make use of where they think it is reasonable, and they indicate that a suitable example could be to impose chains such as IKEA, which offer free buses to their customers, to run with low or zero emissions. Again, I clarify that this is the wrong way to go, and that the action could work against its purpose – IKEA, who impresses on its own initiative to set up a free bus for their customers. It will undoubtedly reduce passenger car traffic, and IKEA is doing an important job. Rather, IKEA should be rewarded, stimulated and praised for taking on their own initiative a social responsibility and environmental responsibility, rather than being punished by measures that can reduce profitability and lead to a reduction in supply. Once again the result will be increased passenger car traffic. IKEA's offer of free buses shows that the market is working. This is an initiative taken by IKEA itself, without any impositions, requirements or prohibitions, as SV would like to implement. I am convinced that the market will continue to function in the future. I am convinced that new technologies, which are becoming increasingly better and better and more environmentally friendly, will contribute to solutions that enable a good collective offer to be maintained for the population, without additional fees, demands and burdens falling down on the ears of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2600	In this case, the Workers' Party belongs to the minority, and the reason for our position in this case is divided into two. On the one hand, we have great confidence that those awarded the concession award also possess the competence to assess whether an application is sufficiently good to be granted or whether it is necessary to add requirements in addition to the one contained in the application itself. On the other hand, we know that environmental and climate issues must always be weighed very heavily when dealing with concession requests concerning passenger transport. In this particular case, the person awarding concessions under the Professional Transport Act is not allowed to impose requirements which satisfy the requirements of other sectors of public transport. When county councils buy services to transport people from A to B, they have the opportunity to make such demands. But as soon as someone's going to do business with this in private, we can't make such demands. It means, in practice, that if the majority in the Grand Duchy does not adopt this proposal, we sit still and watch the environment be sacrificed on the altar of capital. In this case, as in several other cases assigned to the county council, the granting authority is not given the power to impose an action for the provision of an environmentally friendly service. In this case, SV has made a proposal which would include such opportunities in other sectors, by changing the wording of ‘to impose environmental requirements on all vessels carrying passengers’. The Labour Party agrees in principle with such a type of proposal, but we will consider coming back to this at a later stage, when the matter can be investigated on a principle basis. Private, commercial ferry routes and the taxi industry are not the starting point for this case, and it has therefore not been investigated in the case we are dealing with today. We therefore do not vote in favour of the SV's proposal now. As regards the position of the majority in the case, reference is made to the 40 pst target of the Jeleia platform. reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the non-quota sector. In that case, it seems that there is no willingness to assign the possibility of imposing a reduction on commercial operators. In the hearing in this case, large county municipalities wanted the possibility to make such claims. The Labour Party believes that these states, like the others, continue to act wisely in these matters as well. So we think that they have the skills that are needed, or they make sure they get it. So the distinction in this case is whether you have faith in the states, or if you don't have it. The working party has this confidence. That is why we are in favour of a proposal that opens up to it. With this, I address the Workers' Party and SV's proposed proposals in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2615	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2620	The draft representative shall submit the following proposals: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to ensure that counties have the possibility to impose environmental requirements on permits for commercial bus routes through Section 11 or Section 9 of the Professional Transport Act.» Proposalers want to give county municipalities the opportunity to impose environmental requirements on commercial buses, which they do not have today. This applies to transport services which are not included in a public purchase, whether performed by coach or operated as regular services requiring regular services. The right parts in many ways share the intentions of the Document 8 proposal, but we believe that this is being addressed in other ways. First, the dominant proportion of buses is included in the county purchase of such services. Here the county councils impose strict environmental requirements on the vehicles. The costs of doing so are covered by contracts concluded. For buses that run purely commercial, the extra cost will have to be charged to the ticket price, which may have an unfortunate effect on the industry. Secondly, the general instruments we have used seem to work in the same direction. This includes, inter alia: have been identified by NHO Transport and Specter. In this context, it is pointed out that the charging system for the transport sector is helping to make vehicles more environmentally friendly and that new and modern technologies are moving in the same direction. Reference is also made to the development of the Euro 6 engines. The provision of transport to commercial buses is an important contribution to public transport by being cross-border and linking the regions together. They are particularly important for parts of the country where other public transport services are almost absent. It would be extremely unfortunate to impose these bus routes requirements in addition to those applicable in general to heavy-duty vehicles. The Ministry of Transport expresses concern that the proposal opens up discretion which can provide different framework conditions from state to state. This will be unfortunate, as many of the paths go through several states. Therefore, the right does not support the draft representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2638	I would first like to thank the case manager from Hedmark for the work and for the presentation of the case. The centre party is occupied by environmentally friendly public transport and local democracy. In the proposal that has been made, one wants to allow the county to set environmental requirements for the commercial bus routes, as one last year's desire to allow the county to do the same for the taxi industry. Nevertheless, there are some challenges in this matter that one in the handling has not got good enough solutions to. Many of the commercial routes are cross-border, and a situation with different environmental requirements in the different counties will be difficult to manage. In addition, there are technological challenges with technologies other than diesel on the longer routes. Bus transport is too many of the only public transport available. The county authorities are responsible for public transport, and the bus is the mode of transport that extends to all parts of the country. Many places are, in fact, the only collective offer you have. The centre party would like to enable the county to carry the bus supply across the country, and then it's a better county economy that's the key. When it concerns the environment, we know that the commercial bus routes only represent 4 pst. from the emissions from the bulk of the bus transport operation. In other words, the county councils have room for action to do something about 96 pst. the emissions from the transport of buses, as is currently the case. The expressways are a good offer that binds people together. Unfortunately, developments have been negative in recent years. Since 2007, the express bus routes have lost 40 pst. by their customers due to fierce competition. These routes are not compensated for the social discounts, such as: the train routes are hosted. They also have no advantages in the charging system and often have to pay dearly for access to the public hub. They compete hard with subsidised offers, and the price of the ticket is therefore so high that the private car becomes a more reasonable alternative. Therefore, we have to ask ourselves about stricter requirements that drive costs and ticket prices up, and thus the passenger number down, helps us with the long-term climate targets. Instead, we need to start discussing how the bus can become more attractive for longer trips. We have to make provision for prices to be competitive compared to other travel options, because bus is an environmentally friendly alternative. The centre party wants more buses and more environmentally friendly buses. We think the counties have all the means to make the bus transport environmentally friendly within the transport they themselves are responsible for. Oslo squares are a good example. They use new technologies such as electricity and biogas to reduce emissions, which are also important for air quality. Here some other states may have something to learn from in their bus offer. In the case of the commercial routes covered by this proposal, the emissions from buses in the Euro 6 class are low. A major phase-in of biodiesel will make this transport carbon neutral. For this reason, the Centre would like a greater commitment to Norwegian biodiesel production, because such a commitment would also give greater climate benefit. The centre party will not support the proposal we are handling today. We fear that it will weaken the competitiveness of bus transport and reduce the collective dimension. We also believe that the commercial part is so small that the climate impact of the proposal is marginal. There are a number of other measures that should be taken to reduce emissions in the bus and transport sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2655	If the county councils want to take some action, if they want to be environmentally aware, they lack a tool in the register, and that's the tool we want to give the county councils with this proposal. They do not currently have the opportunity to place environmental requirements in tenders for commercial bus routes. For purely commercial bus transport, i.e. thus, transport which is not part of a public procurement, whether by coach or operating as a regular service requiring regular services, is not subject to the Professional Transport Act to be able to impose requirements on the vehicles used, other than those which comply with the technical standards of the Road Traffic Act on vehicles. This case was updated in connection with a permit granted to Turbus Vest AS in Hordaland County, when questions were asked about the possibility of setting environmental requirements for the granting of an IKEA bus. The County Attorney obtained a legal assessment of the question from a law firm, and that assessment concluded that the law does not allow for the setting of environmental requirements for permits relating to specific routes. State Councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen also confirmed, in response to a written question from the undersigned, that there is no possibility of imposing environmental requirements on commercial bus routes for the county. This is the background for the proposal today. A counter-argument from the Council of State, both at that time and in a letter to the Committee — in assessing whether there was a need for a change in law — was that there was marginal profitability on some commercial bus routes, as underlined by the representative of the Centre Party, and that the county municipality does not have the possibility of compensating those entitled, in the same way as through ordinary tendering procedures. I and SV acknowledge that the express buses are in a demanding market situation. We are fully aware of that. It can be solved by e.g. opening social rebates, proposed by members of the SV in connection with the treatment of Prop. 1 S for 2017-2018. However, this is not an argument against allowing county councils to impose environmental requirements on individual permits. To give the county the opportunity to impose environmental requirements does not mean that the county will impose these environmental requirements on all commercial bus routes, for example. express buses. They will assess it on a case-by-case basis. I think, to the extent that it implies a very distrust of the county councils, of the local, regional politicians – that they do not have the ability to judge on a case-by-case basis here. I have full confidence that they do. In fact, I believe that if there are exposed express routes, they will not impose strict environmental requirements that will require them to cancel their business, if there are no other collective offers on the same route. I refer here to a letter from the Municipality of Hordaland and the Municipality of Oslo to the Transport Committee, where they simply ask the Stortinget to ensure the county municipalities this possibility. They want the last tool in the register to be able to address the environment in the city and in their county municipality. If we're going to achieve our climate goals for the big cities, we need to be able to have politicians who make environmental demands on all fronts, it doesn't make sense to say that there's only a small percentage here and a small percentage there. This is a small response to the Central Party, which I think is very sad not to join in on this proposal, mainly because it gives confidence to regional politicians. Maybe that's why it's extra disappointing. So to the proposal to set environmental requirements for vessels using non-scheduled passenger services. There I would just like to refer to the proposal and say that also for passenger boats that do not go on a regular route, there is a similar situation. That is why we must look at the proposal in that context. We also have a general principle that local authorities should have the opportunity to impose environmental requirements on all types of transport for which authorisation is granted. That is why proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Then I take up our suggestions, which are in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2674	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2679	The JELUEA platform sets out clear targets for greenhouse gas emissions, in particular in the transport sector. It clearly has challenges, but also clear technical solutions to achieve a clear reduction. It is said that the government will put in place a plan to achieve the objective of fossil-free public transport by 2025. So here's an ambition where you're very forward-looking about the challenges of public transport. There's public transport we're talking about here, and although there's a few percent express buses among what's going on in Norway, that's of course something. We think they're also going to get their technical solutions, so we're going to actually bring down the emissions on that side as well. I believe that the representative of the Ivar Odnes Central Party has many good points today, because it is important that we do not have to destroy, that there will be fewer express buses in the future. Now it's been on a pretty good level, and it's sinking. How do those who don't take the express bus today travel? They're driving a car. We have to get them back to the bus – that the express bus will be an alternative. I think it is wrong at the moment to set the requirements that SV has in its proposals. But at the same time we're going to have high ambitions. Arne Nävra mentions from the pulpit that cities have to face the challenges. We were at the Volvo factory in Gothenburg, and what did they say? Indeed, the most forward-looking — almost worldwide — electric buses in commercial operation are cities in Norway. Of course, I mention it because it was Trondheim, who had then ordered 35 buses that next year would go on just electric operation. The next city, which had ordered 25 – a little under Trondheim, of course – was Singapore. I think it's an offensive local priority, and I think it's going to make a difference in – when the express buses are going to offer customers a good product, an environmentally friendly product – that this is going to be the way we should go. I hope that the measures under public governance will clearly help to develop technology and that there will be clear leads and expectations from passengers that there will be environmental measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2692	In this case, there are good arguments to support the proposal, but there are also good arguments that draw the opposite way. We've got a number of input into this case, and we've of course evaluated the recordings thoroughly. Several actors argue, inter alia: that there is marginal profitability — many of which have been involved — on some commercial bus routes. The county does not have the option of compensating those who are authorised, in the same way as through ordinary tendering procedures. NHO Transport, Netbuss and others who have been concerned that there are small margins in the industry argue, among other things. that environmental requirements for commercial bus routes – by means of the Professional Transport Act – will be sufficient as a cost-effective element for companies and that it will reduce the possibility of a market-based offer. It is pointed out that in that case there will be a loss for all those using this collective offer. The Christian People's Party recognises the relevance of the arguments. We believe, however, that there are serious arguments that the county councils should be able to make that kind of claim. The proposal will not impose environmental requirements on all commercial bus routes. However, the proposal means that local politicians can introduce this if they consider it reasonable and appropriate. It must and must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. I actually want to positively acknowledge the initiative that SV has taken here. The text of the representative proposal points out as an example that it should be possible for tourist buses and a large chain such as IKEA to run low or zero-emission buses without necessarily affecting the profitability of the company as a whole. The Christian People's Party agrees. The aim of the proposal is precisely to give county politicians the opportunity to set the kind of environmental requirements for commercial bus routes, which they do not have today. The majority of bus services in Norway are part of the county purchasing of public transport services. There is full opportunity to impose environmental requirements by law on public acquisitions. In the case of pure commercial bus transport, i.e. transport not included in public purchases, one today does not have the authority under the Professional Transport Act to be able to impose requirements on the vehicles used. They must, of course, comply with the requirements of road traffic legislation at all times applicable to the technical standard on vehicles, but the Christian People's Party is thus supporting an extension here. That is why we are voting in favour of proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the SV, and we are voting against the proposals No. 2 and 3 from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2708	There is a lot of excitement in the bus and heavy-duty sector. It provides a basis for optimism as to what to do in order to provide better collective services, but also with a view to reducing the emissions of the vehicles to provide services. Over the last few years, I've been visiting Volvo, which I perceive many others here have also done. I have been to Finland and visited Links. I have been to Germany and visited MAN. We've had visits from Nikola and from other actors who all work with different technologies to deliver emission-free public transport. There is no need to be pessimistic about the future. We have also carried out assessments in connection with the national transport plan where we have looked at the developments that are now taking place in passenger car technology, and what we can expect from emissions towards 2030, in view of our Paris objectives, if we see a continued trend in emissions from new vehicles, and how it would like to change our behaviour, in view of the car park we want in 2030. If you have car sharing services, autonomy and much is based on electricity, there is good reason to believe that many of the diesel cars, even if they want to be in the garages, are not being used as much as they are today, because the availability of collective means of travel, the availability of battery-powered passenger cars, will be far better and affect our behaviour. Those projections indicate that emissions can be reduced by around 60 pst. in 2030 – far above what is required to achieve the Paris objectives. That's why we're going to be both targeted and ambitious, but we're going to stick our finger in the ground as to what we need to do to make the collective industry provide services today. There may be many good intentions to set stricter environmental requirements. I understand. At the same time, I've grown up in a gas station, and I've had a father who ran a bus company for ten years, in Sirdal. If he were to sit and count on marginal services when he was not quite sure what the framework conditions were, there would often be a little too much risk in the picture to provide those services. That is what I think we must also take into account here. That is why it is important to have a single, predictable regulatory framework that can be taken into account by all actors. One thing is to impose additional environmental requirements when the state or states are prepared to pay for it. Then it's not a risk to the actors. But if in such a context as when a private operator wants to test whether there is a market for a new express bus route, or a free offer, such as Ikea has, that allows people to take a bus instead of a car to get where they are going, come up with well-thoughted, strict environmental requirements, or there is only a danger that those environmental requirements can be imposed, I fear that there is reason to believe that part of the collective offer that exists on commercial terms would not exist. Between many good intentions and intentions, I believe that the most important thing is that we make sure that the bus offer is actually available, and that we also take a little longer to make sure that the buses that go are environmentally friendly, rather than that the bus offer is not available at all. And as I said, for the route we buy from the public, we can already set environmental requirements. This is the alternative offer that comes in addition, but there is no guarantee that there will actually be. I note that a majority in the Chamber opposes the proposal, but I also note that a majority in the Chamber is in favour of the intentions here, that one refers to all the work that, after all, is happening, the developments that are taking place in the manufacturers, and not least in many Norwegian political environments, where one wishes to go in that direction – and through the government and the Stortinget – through which one has signaled. The express bus companies are unfortunately in a situation where there is marginal profitability. Therefore, foreseeable framework conditions are particularly important. I have recorded that in the Bus magazine this proposal was mentioned with a very unilateral negative assessment from the bus industry itself. I think that should be one of the most important signals when dealing with such a proposal. I think we all want more people to choose to travel collectively. Then a broad and good bus offer is a prerequisite, and then we must not be so ambitious that we actually destroy for just a good bus offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2725	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2730	Today we are discussing a representative proposal from SV to allow county politicians to make environmental demands in commercial bus routes offers. Proposalers believe that such access by local politicians to environmental requirements in the transport sector is important in order to enable large cities to achieve their climate objectives. However, the NHO Transport and Industry express great concern about the consequences of setting environmental requirements. Like the industry, I am concerned that the proposal can work against its purpose and lead to a weakening of the overall collective offer. Express buses and air buses are a market-based collective offer without government subsidies. The buses run over longer distances and bind regions and cities together, either as the only cross-country offer in the district, or as an important complement to the train. The flexible and cost-effective bus offer is financed in practice through ticket receipts from travellers. Environmental requirements for commercial bus routes through the Professional Transport Act will be enough of a cost-effective element for companies and will reduce the possibility of a market-based offer. In this case, there will be a loss for the districts and for those without a passenger car who use this collective offer for holiday and leisure trips and jobs – and who will then have to use a passenger car instead. The SV proposal can therefore be both environmentally hostile and district hostile and do nothing but impose additional financial burdens on an industry characterised by marginal profitability. I believe that the action the proposers here want to implement is wrong, and that such an action will be of little use and work against its purpose. Unfortunately, it is often a consequence of SV’s policies, that the measures are counterproductive and can lead to a reduction in the provision of collective services in the districts and an increase in passenger car traffic. I miss that SV had the ability to see the big picture and not unilaterally impose an industry increased costs without significant effect. The environmental characteristics of individual vehicles are important and the development of bus companies is accompanied by developments. Euro 6 engine technology has effectively solved the NOx emissions for heavy-duty vehicles. In the case of CO2, the emissions of the express buses have been reduced due to both smaller transport and lower fuel consumption. They stand for about 4 pst today. emissions from bus traffic and on the right track – entirely voluntary and using new technologies. I trust the forward-looking attitude of the bus industry, and I am convinced that the market with ever-improved technology and new and more environmentally friendly solutions makes it possible to maintain an environmentally friendly and good collective offer for the inhabitants, without imposing poorer collective offers on the districts as a result of additional costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2743	First of all, a little comment on the Center Party, which was concerned about cross-country express buses: SV and the Center Party have had a little dialogue about this, and we have found that these arrangements apply to the bus, so there is no problem in practice whether there are cross-country express buses. So that's clear enough, and that problem is probably a little bit out of the world. We are constantly listening to proposals for environmental requirements and proposals for different environmental solutions, for technology to come. So you say very often -- I've heard it many times here in the hall -- that the intention is good, but then you vote against it, you say no. Then I sit here as a representative and think, "Who is it that fights against all the time, who is it that pushes for change?" When evolution goes the right way, it just goes too slowly. Without bold decisions here in the Chamber, we are unable, through technological progress, to meet our environmental requirements and achieve our environmental objectives, both in terms of the Paris Agreement and climate agreements here in the Chamber. It is important not just to say that the intention is good; it is also important to vote correctly when such proposals are available. I also find it very strange that there is no greater confidence in local politicians, municipal politicians and regional decision-making authorities. I think that's very sad. The arguments put forward by the Council of State here could well have been used if the Council of State had been in the County Committees or in a county council. That's where he could use them, because that's where the decisions are to be made, on a case-by-case basis. Then I could follow the state council far ahead in his assessments. But here in the Chamber, I think we should give the county politicians tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2752	I want to comment on the last article. I am fully aware of what the representative Nävra says, that the requirements are set out for the county municipality that may be the host municipality of a bus company. It is largely Oslo, and the Central Party becomes very skeptical if we are to risk getting into a situation where Oslo has seen such strict demands that the express buses, which are very important for the districts, find out that they have to put down their bids, because a given one gets such strict demands. I think the plural here in the hall is concerned about making sure that we have a more environmentally friendly collective system, but we also have to look at the consequences of the strict requirements, which we're at risk of moving more traffic into private cars instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2759	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox Case No. 15–19 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2823	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e2835	The Stortinget is then ready to vote on the matters on today's map. Case No. 1 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3035	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3045	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3054	During the debate, Maria Aasen-Svensrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking, in the practice of law on criminal enforcement, Section 27, that investigations against lawyers in prisons with a high level of security be limited to spot checks and that the government will at a later stage return to the Grand Duchy with an assessment of whether this is sufficient.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3226	The first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 27 is first added to the third paragraph of Section III. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3240	Then I, II, the rest of III and IV are voted over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3250	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3260	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Case No. 4 and 5 are exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3271	During the debate, Mr Henriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to introduce the practical school bag as a national bet in primary and secondary schools, which an offer must be made to all municipalities to design and offer to their students.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3295	The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3309	President! The Christian People's Party shall vote for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3314	So let's do that again. It's nice that the new president gets to try his first vote. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3330	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a social contract that obliges active integration work in all religious and life-viewing communities receiving public support. The contract shall be drawn up in cooperation with the organisations of the religious and life views.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3354	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a proposal for a minimum of 40 pst. representation of women in governing bodies which manage state support in religious and life-view societies. The requirement must not apply to bodies dealing with theological questions.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals requiring that representatives of governing bodies which manage state support in religious and life-view societies are democratically elected. The requirement must not apply to bodies dealing with theological questions.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3378	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The big picture asks the government in the big news of faith and life to come back with a proposal for a gender equality pot from which the faith communities can seek support.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3402	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3434	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that public transport buyers are compensated for the additional costs resulting from the alcohol duty’.» The Central Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3460	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to start legal work to install alcolocks in all vehicles used for paid passenger transport.’ The Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3511	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3521	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3530	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Hans Fredrik Grövan on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to submit legislative proposals to ensure that all new motorised Norwegian registered vehicles on the roads in Norway have an alkolock system installed. A necessary transitional period is taken into account so that the scheme is appropriately phased in. The size assumes that the scheme will be implemented in Norway at the same time as the EU.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3554	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Swedish Government is asking for regulatory proposals to ensure that all new motorised Norwegian registered vehicles on the roads in Norway have an alkolock system installed and come back to Stortinget with a case to this effect during 2018.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3578	The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3594	During the debate, Sverre Myrli has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop the competitive outsourcing of passenger transport services by train.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3611	It's the Right, Advance and Left parts behind the setting. The Christian People's Party has announced support for the vote. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3632	During the debate, Mr Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to launch a potential study on the use of hyperloop between Oslo and Copenhagen and a potential study on the use of hyperloops in the transport of fish.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3649	Right, Advance, Center and Left are behind the setting. The Christian People's Party has announced support for the vote. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3669	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3 by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to conduct an urban path to secure capacity and capture large development and/or transformation projects on the Sluppen/Elgeseter/Nyhavna/Lilleby/Rotvoll route with possible extension to Dragvoll’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to establish collective fields on the new E6 Jakøya–Klett–Setervegen in order to ensure greater accessibility for public transport. The measure should be evaluated after some time and, where appropriate, amended if it does not have the desired effect.’» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3702	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to contribute 70 pst. State financing of the Metrobuss collective project in Trondheim.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3731	Red has now announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3745	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3 by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that local authorities have the possibility to impose environmental requirements on all ships carrying passenger services, including non-scheduled services.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to review the legislation and to make the necessary proposals to ensure that there is a legal basis to impose environmental requirements on all professional transport services for national and local authorities.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3785	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that county councils have the opportunity to impose environmental requirements on permits for commercial bus routes.» The setting is promoted by the Right, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3808	Case No. 15–19 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 36–40. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-20.ana.ud194e3874	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what it looks like. The meeting has been cancelled.
