ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e25	The representative Kårstein Eidem Løvaas, who has been on leave, has once again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Åsmund Aukrust on leave in the days of 3 and 4 October and from the representative of Toril Eidsheim on leave in the period from 3 October to 6 October, both to participate in the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe – OSCE – Harvest Meeting in Strasbourg On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, for Akershu County Mani Hussaini and for Hordaland County Sigurd Hille, are called to meet on the 3rd and 4th of October.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e60	Mani Hussaini and Sigurd Hille are here to sit. The representative, Mr Arnstad, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e67	I have on behalf of the representatives of Heidi Greni, Ole André Myhrvold, Sandra Borch, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and myself the pleasure of proposing a more effective licence hunt for you. Furthermore, on behalf of Heidi Greni, Ole André Myhrvold, Sandra Borch, Emilie Enger Mehl, and myself, I have the honour of making proposals for a bear management that is in line with the robberies agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e74	The representative of Mr Geir Adelsten Iversen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e79	On behalf of the representatives of Sandra Borch, Heidi Greni, Willfred Nordlund, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself, I would like to make an important and necessary proposal to abolish the merger of the municipalities of Troms and Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e84	The representative, Ole André Myhrvold, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e89	On behalf of myself and the big business representatives Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Heidi Greni, Willfred Nordlund and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, I would like to put forward the logical proposal to repeal decisions on the merger of the counties Østfold, Akershus and Buskerud.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e94	The representative, Sverre Myrli, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e100	On behalf of Ingarill Olsen, Kirsti Leirtrø, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Julia Wong and myself, I am delighted to propose a renegotiation of the Urban Environment Package for the North-Jear.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e105	The representative, Tuva Moflag, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e110	On behalf of the representatives of Ingvild Kjerkol, Tore Hagebakken, Tellef Inge Mørland, Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen and myself, I would like to put forward a press release on transparency on unit prices of medicines in Norwegian hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e115	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e120	On behalf of Kjersti Toppe, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I propose safe hospitals in front of expensive performance projects – a very wise proposal. And on behalf of myself, I am promoting proposals for good working conditions for good welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e127	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present seven proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e132	This day we've been looking forward to, and I'll mark it by making seven proposals from SV's big group. First, on behalf of the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I would like to make proposals to ensure that everyone, including the richest of the country, contributes to the community through the reintroduction of a fair inheritance tax. Then I will, on behalf of Solfrid Lerbreck, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Sheida Sangtarash, Freddy André Hövstegård and myself, put forward proposals to strengthen the right to full time in the Working Environment Act. Then I will, on behalf of the major representatives of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Mona Fagerås and myself, put forward proposals to ensure value creation and employment in coastal communities through the decline of fishing rights to the coast. So I want to put forward proposals on behalf of the representative Mona Fagerås and myself on a national initiative for more teachers in school. Then, on behalf of myself, I would like to put forward proposals to set up a new Norwegian Defence Commission. Then I will, on behalf of the great representative Freddy André Hövstegård and myself, put forward proposals to put people ahead of markets by abolishing the profits of child protection. And then, on behalf of the big business representatives Lars Haltbrecken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Arne Nävra, Espen Barth Eide, Else-May Botten and myself, I would like to put forward proposals for new measures and instruments to achieve the Stortinge Climate Goal in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e151	The representative of Une Bastholm will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e156	It is a great step forward to be able to present a proposal for a representative on a reform of working time for people and the environment. I would also like to make proposals for the dumping of lice from farms. And finally, I want to put forward a representative proposal on behalf of the representative of Audun Lysbakken and myself on a CO2 fund for oil-free production.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e165	The representative of Kjersti Toppe will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e170	I will make a proposal from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete and myself to ask the government to evaluate the cooperation reform and to bring matters forward to the Stortinge on the necessary measures to ensure that the intentions of the cooperation reform can be achieved. In addition, I would like to make a proposal on behalf of myself to ensure full openness about the prices of medicinal products in the public health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e178	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e196	The President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The debate will take place over two days starting with speeches by parliamentary leaders of up to 10 minutes, followed by a row of up to six lines, then 44 posts of up to 5 minutes, completed in full on the first day of the debate and distributed as follows between the parties: Working Party 13 posts, Right 12 posts, Advance Party 7 posts, Centre Party 5 posts, Socialist Left Party 3 posts, Left 2 posts and Christian People's Party 2 posts. It opens up up to four lines on each post after two of the posts from the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party and after one of the speeches from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. Six state councils shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each, with a subsequent row of up to six lines. After completion of the allocated speaking time, open for articles of up to 3 minutes. Thursday's meeting will be set at 2.30 p.m. 10 and starting with an intervention by the Prime Minister of up to 15 minutes, followed by a row of up to 13 lines, followed by the remaining 3 minutes, if appropriate, from today's meeting, as well as those who sign up during Wednesday's debate. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e215	We begin this week with a new year of growth. It's happening against a backdrop of seriousness and uncertainty in the world and here in the hall. In many of the countries around us, we see that trust between people is falling. Communitys are weakening, the common arenas are getting fewer, and the differences between people are increasing. From the United States to Sweden, we see this development. Nevertheless, it is worth remembering that most countries would trade with us where we start. Compared to other countries, we still have small differences and high trust between people in Norway. We have a lot of people at work, most of them in good jobs. Most of us are part of strong communities, whether it be the family, the community, the workplace, the volunteer or a welfare society where we stand for each other, make demands on each other, and stand on the same footing with each other. Our immune system is strong, but we are not immune in our society, in our families, in our working life, in our districts. We too are now exposed to powerful forces that weaken the sense of community and increase the differences between people. The Church's Bymission, who is responsible for this year's TV action in a couple of weeks, reports that over 150 000 Nordics experience not having enough to eat in a year. There are 100,000 children growing up in poverty. We can't have it like this. The census lists objectives hardly anyone can disagree with, but the speech was much weaker on concrete policy content to achieve these objectives. On the contrary, government policies in important areas contribute to weaker communities and major differences. It was a speech with a few new ideas and hardly any new solutions. Large tax cuts to them with the most from before contribute to the increase in differences. Impaired rights for workers, opening up for more temporaryity, a fall over several years in the proportion of women, and in particular men, who work, and too little efforts to combat social dumping – all of this leads to increased labour market disparities and more falling outside, including in our country. In addition, this uncertainty weakens our ability to convert. It's totally bad for our businesses. People in the districts experience abstinence and turn in protest against a government that has left the line that in Norway city and country go hand in hand. A reform for new regions could have been a forward-looking reform with participation and commitment. Instead, it is marred by coercion and bad craftsmanship, against the will of the people and common sense in many places in our country. The government is talking about the so-called near-police reform, which, according to the government, should be better ‘the ability to prevent crime and protect victims’. But from the police, municipalities, and people across the country, there is a strong alarm that criminal cases with a known perpetrator are going to lie down, and about L.A. and police offices that need people to solve the nuclear mission. An important lesson explains Norway’s many progress: freedom and security are only possible by joining forces. Individually, the workers were in the hands of the lua. Together, we stood strong when we share the burdens and the goods, invest together, take responsibility together. This Community idea – the responsibility for each other, the solidarity with the weakest, the belief in everything we can share in town and country, the front line against policies that increase the differences between peoples, the commitment to value creation throughout the country, the desire for stronger international solidarity – is a king's idea shared by many in all the parties that constitute the opposition to today's right-wing rule. We saw several examples of this in the last big year. The decision to increase the number of papers is based on a fundamental view of the task of the community: to contribute to more – not less – equality between women and men. It's good for the kids, it's good for the family, and it's also good for the value creation. The decision on stricter rules for renting arises from a fundamental view that we need stronger Community solutions in the labour market to provide security to people at work and to prevent increasing differences in working life. It is a security that contributes to a positive transition across society and to competitive businesses. In the last year, in several cases, there has been a majority in favour of a policy that prioritises safe work for all, who call for volunteers and ideals, who take man-made climate change seriously, and who work with – not against – our districts. We will, as the largest opposition party, have an open view of and seek a majority with all parties supporting these Community values. The size is brought together in a situation where the Christian People's Party assesses which parties they want to cooperate with in government. It's about breakthroughs for things, but this is also a choice of what kind of society we want, what kind of society we want to be, and what kind of voice Norway should have in the world. We welcome the recommendation of party leader Knut Arild Hareide to explore possible cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party in government. The Christian People's Party wants to clarify issues of cooperation without interference from other parties. We will have respect for that. Should the clarification pending at the extraordinary national meeting of the Christian People's Party lead to changes in the parliamentary situation, the Workers' Party is ready to take responsibility for clarifying the consequences of such a change and should have. We want to do that in dialogue with the opposition parties to today's government. Until such clarification takes place, the Workers' Party will deal with the fact that today's right-wing government has a majority behind it in this Chamber. We will continue our political work and seek the majority of our policies. Let me therefore conclude by pointing out what is going to be the most important issues for the Workers' Party in the autumn. The Workers' Party will continue the reorganisation action in the labour market, which resulted in stricter rules against renting in our homes, and follow up with new proposals that can contribute to safety and good transition in the workplace and business. The Labour Party will propose new, powerful measures to get more organised in the Norwegian labour market, including a doubling of the trade union deduction. The Labour Party will seek the majority of the fair proposal for a pension from the first crown for one million Nordics who do not have this right today. The Labour Party will propose a skills fund and rights to continuing training in order to ensure that we invest more in the main interests of the Norwegian business community, i.e. people at work and their skills. The Workers' Party will give priority to our common well-being. We will say no to the commercialisation of the welfare that the right-wing government's policy leads to. We will propose new immediate measures to meet the fixed crisis, the pillar of our common health care. We want to spend the big money on our hospitals and on care and school in the municipalities, not on tax cuts. This must be done to pay for stronger Community solutions in everyday life to people. We will ensure that municipalities can afford to do more to give more children a good upbringing, more families time to each other and more older people an active and worthy old age. The working party will equip us better to meet and solve the climate problem. As a community, we must take greater responsibility – the public, the businesses and each one of us. We experience a wilder, wetter and more dangerous weather. The summer of drought has shown us how vulnerable we are. We need to set clear targets for emissions reductions in Norway. We will support the technological development of our companies that promote electrification, cut emissions and create new export products. We will use the public purchasing power more actively to set new environmental and climate standards. Finally, I would like to point out that the Storting this autumn has been dealing with one of the most serious issues we have had in several years. The National Audit Office has determined, this year as last year, that the government has not done the job it was supposed to do with one of the most important tasks of the community, namely to secure our society against terror. Buildings, power supply, critical infrastructure, common goals for police and defence cooperation – there are still major gaps. The report is serious. The information for Stortinget has been incomplete. This is a matter that will shape political Norway in the weeks and months to come. I look forward to debates and cooperation through an important political harvest. As always, the Labour Party will contribute to good and collective solutions for the country. I am promoting the proposals of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e253	The representative Jonas Gahr Støre has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e258	Jonas Gahr Støre is talking about the Right Government. It's a tripartite government, and we also have an outstretched hand to the Christian People's Party – if they want to land in a different position from that of the party leader Hareide. You might take as a compliment that it's talking about a right-wing government, but it's actually a three-party government. It was extended in January, with the left. I have been surprised by the behaviour of the old governing party Labour Party in the last year. I think it has something to do with Red getting into the Storting. Suddenly, the Workers' Party was out with a rhetoric that suspiciously remembered Red: welfare professionals, setting a line for private activities, for example. now to say no to private cleaning, private cooking in the municipality – things that have been incorporated for a long time. Is it that the Workers' Party has now taken a long step to the left, while they want to cooperate towards the center? It's going to be a difficult combination.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e265	This is recognisable Labour Party policy: safe care services and welfare services for people. With regard to the kitchen: In Nittedal, the rapporteur from the Labour Party went to the elections to take the kitchen back to the hospital; it should be a shared responsibility. It was bad food, and she was supposed to make sure that the kitchen delivered good goods. She did so — so that State Council Sylvi Listhaug stood up and declared that the kitchen in Nittedal was the best kitchen for the elderly in Norway. I think this is an example of a rapporteur who takes responsibility, where she sees developments as TV 2 has now documented, that frozen food is being run over the mountains from the West to be served at old homes in the East is a poor solution. Municipal politicians are responsible for making good decisions that ensure the safety of our young people and the elderly, and then have a strong responsibility. The ideals are strong, the private contribute in many areas, but a commercialisation that weakens the rights of people at work, and also the services, is against the Workers' Party. It's a recognizable Labour Party policy, and it actually doesn't have much to do with Storting's composition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e270	If Gahr Støre meant to establish that public food tastes better than private food, it does have something to do with how to organise the services in each municipality. Another thing that might be of interest is that the Workers' Party has put in a new tone in the case of fresh oils. There has been a consensus that some fresh oils should be available, but the Workers' Party wants to introduce a municipal veto right for the establishment of fresh oils. Is that a position the Labour Party will still stand on?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e277	We are very well aware of the agreement we made a few years ago about fresh schools, or schools outside the public sector. In Norway, we have a long tradition of setting up schools with different lifestyles, different pedagogical methods. The Labour Party lives well with this, it is a fine diversity in Norway. A trend in the flowering of schools that weaken the community’s schooling — which is for everyone — is skeptical of the Workers’ Party. Municipal politicians must be given the opportunity to attend — and for secondary schools, they should also be the county councils. It's about seeing the whole of the offer that the students get. If it's the case that high school is tapped for students because there's some place where fresh schools are set up, it's a municipal responsibility to follow up on it. It results from the responsibility we have when we are elected to important positions that are responsible for the rights of our children in terms of school, and it is quite timely to point it out to the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e284	The head of the Labour Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, has been clearly out there and has called for a significant recommuneration of services currently operated by private actors. Now the representative Gahr Støre was not as clear about it in his post today, but I assume it still applies. What is used as a reason is the management of public resources and money use. Some of the strengths of the model we have in Norway today are precisely the interaction between public and private and the provision of a benchmark for municipal services by competing with private individuals, and users of these services are consistently satisfied. Then my question to the representative Gahr Støre is: why should high-quality private services be reserved for a few who can afford, and not for most people? And why does the representative Gahr Støre believe that municipal monopoly is best suited to avoid camaraderie and efficient resource use?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e293	I haven't seen a case for municipal camaraderie. But let's take Oslo: When an Arbeiderparti-led city council took over responsibility in 2015, six out of ten hospitals were private and six out of ten kindergartens were private. There was then a ban on new municipal hospitals. The municipality imposed a ban on the development of nursing homes and kindergartens. It is ideological policy. Since we took responsibility in Oslo, we have removed the ban on municipal kindergartens, and there are 2,000 new places. At the same time, there have been 1 000 new private places, and there are more than four years with the City Council where the Progress Party contributed. This must be decided by the municipalities, they must make good decisions. It's important to learn from each other. The research shows that the ones we can really learn from, beyond the community, they're the ideals, and they're turning the Workers' Party around. We're in favour of private kindergartens. But we're opposed to taking out large dividends or otherwise taking out money paid by taxpayers and paid by parents. It surprises me that the Progress Party is looking at it with open eyes, because there is a bad use of the community's funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e302	A well-organised work life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. The main driving force in the deterioration of a well-organised working life is free labour immigration from Eastern European countries where there is poor pay and working conditions and high unemployment. The majority of these unemployed people who come to Norway to improve their situation in life have to thank the least paid jobs, in professions with weak trade unions. Very many people do not get regular permanent employment, but are, on the contrary, employed on projects, temporarily employed or driving a louse pay truck. The centre party is working to replace free labour immigration from the EEA area outside the Nordic region with regulated labour immigration, including: is required to have permanent employment with Norwegian pay and working conditions. Will the Labour Party support the Centre Party in this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e310	The Workers' Party will not support the policies of the Centre Party to repeal the EEA Agreement. We're in favour of that agreement. It is good for Norwegian society, and it is good for Norwegian workers. But we want a stronger effort for order and clean-up in Norwegian working life, which ensures that Norwegian pay and working conditions are respected. We will contribute Europeanly and ensure that those rules are also respected at a European level, in cooperation with other countries that are also concerned about this. We want to strengthen those bodies in Norway that need to monitor the good organisation of working life. We will ensure a high level of organisation so that those who come to Norway are organised, informed about their rights and can use them when they come to work. In this way, we see examples of how stronger national efforts can ensure a clean working life, both for those who come from outside, and for those who are born and live in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e317	I listened to Mr. Gahr Støre's posts and heard a lot that we in SV can recognize, in which the description that the differences in Norway are increasing. It's a kind of community of values that we have on the left-hand side, where we're concerned about caring for and ensuring small differences, that we have to tax by ability, and that everyone can contribute to the community. But to succeed in breaking that trend with increasing differences that we see now, and as we've seen become stronger since the 1980s, we have to take seriously that those at the top are falling off. We see that wealth disparities in Norway have increased more than in many other countries, and that the wealth of the richest has more than doubled since the financial crisis. So my question is, how will the Workers' Party participate and ensure that the richest in Norway also contribute to the community and taxes according to their ability, once they have so far rejected an inheritance tax and will only bring the wealth tax back to the 2013 level?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e322	With regard to the inheritance tax, we thought that it hit quite poorly and did not achieve the objectives it was supposed to achieve, so after it was abolished, we did not propose to reintroduce it. Changes in the tax system must be made in the light of very thorough reviews of the whole tax system. Now we have had a tax reform in which the Workers' Party was involved. We stand by it, and the Workers' Party believes that they have to pay more with the most. We proposed it before the elections. Not everyone thought it was as popular. I think it was a proper grip. We believe that people with large assets will pay taxes on them. We do that every year. An inheritance fee will be valid for one year, so the Workers' Party believes until further notice that it is the property tax that gives the best opportunity to tax it. You can also look at the income tax system to ensure that those with the highest income pay their share, the protection of people with normal incomes and the protection of pensioners. But major structural changes in our tax system, also in order to follow the development of wealth, do not mean that a representative proposal is being made. We have to do that after having had a complete review of how our tax system works.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e327	Gahr Store's speech blends into a pattern. The Labour Party is more and more represented as a party that is reasonablely independent and – I regret to say it – less responsible, partly very expensive promises, in health policy, in the local economy, in the field of transport, in defence, in climate and in refugee policy, in order to take some examples. I believe that the political debate with Gahr Støre as a party leader and the Labour Party that the party that loves to call itself a state leader had stood to explain and show how they will finance the expensive promises. My question is short and good: how does the Labour Party finance the different promises and expectations they create out there, and what tasks, bets, will the Labour Party give priority down?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e332	This was a totally undocumented post, which made claims that hung in the loose air. But let me reply as follows: if the representative Breivik wants to show how the Workers' Party prioritises, I recommend the Workers' Party's alternative budget. It shows our priorities for next year, and there will be a good alternative budget for 2019. If he wants to see how the Workers' Party wants to take society forward over time, I recommend our programmes and our work committees that put forward proposals for new policies, which will not be implemented in the next quarter or next fiscal year, but over a little longer. The Labour Party is faced with a policy of economic expansion, which can be implemented politically and is to be implemented by a majority in this Chamber. Then the Left, as the state-bearing party it likes to call itself, takes responsibility for the choices they make in the communities they make politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e337	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e342	Norway is an amazing country – not only is the world’s best country to live in, it is also among the safest. After a couple of peaceful decades, many of the worlds are again experiencing unrest. We have been shaken by the occupation of Crimea, hybrid warfare, terror, brexit and signs of a global trade war. Events outside Norway affect everyday life at home — for businesses, for employees, for authorities, yes, for the whole country. A safe Norway is the foundation of the welfare society. Therefore, this government has had the highest priority of strengthening Norway’s defence capabilities and preparedness. The defense has been a winner in the budget, and the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have stood behind. Over the next twenty years, we're going to spend more than 1000 billion dollars. kr to strengthen Defense. We buy new fighter aircraft, submarines, artillery, air protection, surveillance aircraft and much more that strengthens Norway's safety. At the right of the government, action to combat crime and strengthen preparedness in Norway is a priority. Since 2013, it has been granted more than 7 billion. DKK for civil protection in Norway and 10 billion. to various preparedness measures in the defence sector. We've occupied 2,300 more police posts. The response force is reinforced by 50 pst., and this increases preparedness, especially against major and serious incidents. There's more to it than that. In August, Erna Solberg laid down the foundation for the police's new emergency centre. This will include, inter alia: the new police helicopters, the emergency team, the bombing team and crisis and hostage handlers shall be stationed from 2020 onwards. The Emergency Response Centre will be a major boost to national preparedness and an important contribution to the safety of the North. After some demanding years of oil price falls and refugee crisis, it is good to be able to stand here and say that Norway is doing well. Economic growth is solid while greenhouse gas emissions are falling. Companies are investing more, and more and more are coming to work – all over the country. The registered unemployment rate has not been lower since 2009. Many enterprises now demand labour. Our task is to use the good times to include more people who are outside, and to strengthen the integration of immigrants into working life. Therefore, the Right-Fremskrittsparte-Left government has launched an inclusion tool. The parties have also announced that a new integration strategy will come in December. The competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises must continue to be strengthened by greener, smarter and more innovative business. We need to make sure that most of the new jobs come to private enterprises — work that is profitable, so that they can cope with the Norwegian level of costs at the same time as they contribute to the state budget. The government facilitates growth through investment in research, competence and transport. Traveling along the roads in the country is now constantly encountering plant machinery that prepares new and improved roads that will link city and country closer together. Travel times to the population will decrease, and the competitiveness of Norwegian businesses will rise. This is a direct result of the ambitious plans agreed by the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right in the National Transport Plan, and followed up by the government in its budgets. Although there is a lot of good going on in this country, of course, a conservative party will never be completely satisfied. There are new challenges ahead. The main challenge is building a sustainable welfare society. It's about having an important management responsibility for future generations. We want the children born and raised today to experience a Norway where there is security for retirement and well-being, and where we survive the globe in better condition for the next generation. It is precisely this generational perspective on which the Jeloea declaration is based, and on which the Right, the Advance Party and the Left stand their whole heart behind. We want to ensure that Norway is also the world’s best country to live in in in the future. It involves getting more people to work, including everyone in society, and meeting climate goals. To build a sustainable welfare society, we need to tackle several major challenges. First of all, we're going to be twice as many older than 80 years up to 2040. This means that there will be far fewer working behind each pensioner and that the needs for services aimed at the elderly will increase. Secondly, we must insist that oil and gas revenues are reduced in the future. We need to create new and greener jobs that replace those we lose in oil and gas. Thirdly, digitisation will mean that the jobs of the future will require a different type of competence than yesterday. That is why the government has said that it will implement a reform of competence. The goal is that no one should go out on date. Fourth, Norway becomes more multicultural. We know that more immigrants need to work so that they do not go beyond sustainability, and that those who stay in Norway will be integrated into society. Fifthly, we must fight climate change and environmental challenges before it is too late. Emissions shall be reduced by approx. 40 pst. by 2030. These are five major challenges for the sustainability of the Norwegian welfare society. When you look at it, it's these big challenges that this big crowd should tackle and try to solve. The right is that we should preserve Norway as the world’s best country to live in. That's why we have to create more jobs and qualify people for those jobs. In particular, we need to create more jobs in the private sector. There is nothing wrong with the jobs or those working in the public sector. They're absolutely crucial. But it is only the private sector jobs that finance the public sector, and that pay for the well-being that we want all the Nordics to enjoy. Parties seeking a large and generous public sector must also expect and organise for high value creation in the private sector. Therefore, it surprises me that a single left-hand side in 2019 is going to choose to use only half the country. The private sector is no longer valued by the left. They are described in many areas as undesirable and as welfare professionals. The last is a suspicious, inconvenient and polarizing concept, which I think the left-hand side should end with. When the logo on the clothes of those working in the nursery or in the hospital becomes more important than the service performed, the debate has been traced off. When the Workers' Party focuses on Red and SV and wants to spend billions of dollars on the recommuneration of good private offers, it is to put the system ahead of the individual. Our starting point is simple. We want good services for the inhabitants. Whether it is private, non-profit or municipal actors that provide the service is subordinate. The municipality shall continue to be responsible, maintain quality requirements and control the service. But the right is strong in the belief that a variety of providers and services provide more quality, more innovation and more freedom of choice than monopolies. That's why the Right says no to the ideological closure of private kindergartens and no to the municipal veto for health schools. Right goes into the new magnification session with enhanced faith in the values and principles on which we base our policy. We have a clear political project for Norway. We have a capable Prime Minister, Erna, who leads Norway in a way we can be proud of. And for several years we have had a good and fruitful cooperation with the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party – a cooperation where all parties have had an impact on matters that are close to their hearts. Together we have made Norway better. It is with us that emissions and health cows have finally begun to fall, and that the results in school have increased. We have put in place an offensive effort in the fight against child poverty. It's with us that we've been able to have an escalating plan for drugs and mental health. We have turned the defense from being a budget paper to becoming a budget winner. And it is we who build the country together, with good road and rail connections. We're not in the target, but we're going to use the new magnification session to try to make Norway safer and more sustainable – because we believe in the future. We believe in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e378	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e383	The government has announced a big message about social sustainability. I could've spent the time here hurling at this newly won interest in increasing differences while the government is pursuing a conscious policy to reinforce those differences, but I'm going to let it lie right now. Because I think it is good that that message comes, and that we can get a proper discussion in Stortinget about what we have to do to prevent the social ties in Norway from weakening. That is why I would like to invite the representative of Greece and the Right to join in and tackle one of the major injustices of the pension system, namely all those low-paid and part-time workers in the private sector who lose service because they do not have earnings from the first crown. Our proposal is now under consideration. This means that the right has to decide on it. That's why I'm just asking: Will the Right help secure a fair pension for people who work at the store where Helleland trades, who wash at the hotels where Helleland lives, and who serve at the restaurants where Helleland occasionally eats? Because these are what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e390	I thank you for the invitation to discuss the social sustainability of society. I guess that's really what I spent most of my post on, so I think the Right has put quite a lot of emphasis on the integration promise, getting people involved in the world of work, addressing the challenges they're facing. But in the case of the pension agreement that we entered into here in the Stortinget, it is a very carefully compounded settlement. When it was concluded, there was also a compensation in popular security for those who served less in relation to those who made a lot of money. So now there's a pension requirement from the first heads, which I assume is that Marianne Marthinsen has taken as a starting point. There, LO and NHO concluded in their pay statement that this question left them lying and did not reach an agreement now. So, immediately, the Labour Party is promoting this proposal in Stortinget. It's a new Workers' Party, it's a Workers' Party that doesn't respect the similarities that are involved in the pay negotiations. I believe this belongs between the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e397	Thanks for the answer. Now the N.H.O. pointed out that this means they're a political question. That's why we've taken it seriously and brought it in for the country's National Assembly to be treated here. Just to give an example of how today's system turns out: Let's start with Arne, who works in the insurance industry and has a monthly salary of NOK 64,000 – there's a pretty normal salary in that industry. He has 7 pst. service generation, earned from the first crown. $4,500 is set off in the month of his occupational pension. Others make about $30,000. She does not have a pension from the first heads. She has 2 pst. pension saving – a standard approach to the hotel industry. Her employer cancels a little over NOK 5000 a year. Arne earns twice as much as Anne does, and it's not unreasonable that his service is higher, but he gets ten times as high. Does Greece think this is fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e405	That's how the pension scheme is a whole. I tried in my first answer to say that when we made a pension settlement, it was to get a sustainable pension system. If one is to change the assumptions of that pension scheme, I believe that there is something that should be negotiated between the parties, of course with the assistance of the government, if necessary. But this was not finally clarified in the spring pay bill. I believe that the social partners should address this. The fact that we have a fair pension system is important, but it must be a sustainable pension system that ensures that Velferds-Norway can move on in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e410	The representative of Greece was very concerned about a safe Norway and a strengthened preparedness in his speech. I also noticed that the state council Hoksrud said yesterday that the police reform had now been completed in the report on the state of the state of the state – which he also read in an excellent new Norse. But where do we stand when it comes to the police? Well, we're saying that very few newly-trained policemen get a job. We're saying that the police have disappeared from a lot of neighborhoods. Only in September has a community in Finnmark been plagued by violent people without the police coming, and in Trøndelag it took six hours after a gun exchange before the police arrived. Since the merger of East police districts, more than 7 000 pending investigations have been made. Today, the Austrian newspaper reports a full crisis — that the courts have to cancel hundreds of court cases because of the police’s work situation. Does the Right really believe that police reform is complete, or is it such a policy that is developing into a crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e419	At least we agree on one thing – that Bård Hoksrud speaks better in a new way than we thought. [[laughs in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e424	That at least!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e429	2,300 new police posts have come into place, as I said in my post. We have had quite a lot of police reform. The reform is in place, but it is not that everything is entirely'ship shape' as it should be, because there are still things that need to be done in terms of organisation. What has been the whole purpose of the police reform is to give the police the opportunity to investigate the type of crime we unfortunately see emerging, online crime, the investigation of child pornography, etc. It requires more resources, it requires more interaction — and it adds up to the new police reform. I know that in many districts people say the police department works well. We've got a more mobile police force, and that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e436	I understand that the government is concerned about explaining the police reform that it would lead to a new investigation. The problem today is that only in Eastern police districts there are 7 000 cases that accumulate, which are not completed. Those who are responsible for it say that a major reason for this is the police reform. And today, Rome's magazine reports that hundreds of cases that were set up in the courtroom have been canceled, because the police are not getting the cases out. It's a problem, and it's in addition to the fact that the police have pulled themselves out of a lot of communities around the country. I have to say that it does little to have someone send out an emergency strap that is armed to Frøya in the North Tronde Team when they arrive six hours after the shootings were released. There's not much point in whether or not they're armed, and whether or not they've trained in an emergency centre -- they're probably coming too late for the event. Does not the Right View the crisis that is developing in the Norwegian police?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e443	The right has seen and see that there is a need for strong police action across the country. That's why there are 2,300 new police officers employed today. If you have 2,300 more employees and you don't get the services done, that means you have to look at how this is organized. I believe that the important thing now is that we've got stronger units that can investigate the heavy crime. Then we have to make sure that there are people coming to Frøya, that there are people coming out to the districts when they're going to have help. It is a bit of the intention to get more mobile police forces, where the car is the office to a greater extent than the Länsmannskontoret is the important thing. For the Central Party, maintaining the janitor's office structure has been more important than modernising the police and providing the police with the tools they need to investigate the serious crime, whether it's online or it's organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e450	Summer's temperature and drying records show us how serious the climate noise is, and how urgent it is to bring down the emissions. But what does the government do? Indeed, their main measures in the fight against climate noise are a record import of palm oil. The production of palm oil is today the biggest threat to the rainforest in Indonesia and Malaysia, and it greatly increases greenhouse gas emissions. This is well-known knowledge, but I am tempted to quote a former Nobel Prize winner in literature who asked: ‘How many times can a man turn his head and pretend that he just doesn’t see?’ My question to the representative Helleland is: Why does it mean good climate policy to destroy the rainforest in Indonesia and Malaysia?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e455	This government, like previous governments, has a lot of effort to preserve the rainforest, and spends a lot of money on it. At the same time, this government has a desire to move on to a more environmentally friendly fuel, biofuels, and there we know that the development of second-generation biofuels has not come as far as we had hoped. I believe that the important thing now is to have full strength in raising skills and developing new environmentally friendly products in Norway, and then we need to move on with the climate policy that a majority of the Stortinget is just behind. The Climate Communication has been adopted. It's stuck. I now see that those parties that were not in all the decisions there, are still finding new fields to attack the government. My claim is – and I think it can be demonstrated – that this government has done more in climate policy than anyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e460	I want to give Greece credit for noticing Red's entry into the Stortinget and the influence on the Workers' Party. But it remains to be seen whether they support our proposals on the prohibition of profit or whether there is only talk in the newspapers. Greece then reacts to the term ‘welfare profitor’, but it is an objective fact that these promote well-being for profit – it also documents the government’s own reports. The BDO report, which came before the summer from the Ministry of Knowledge, showed that profit in commercial kindergartens is three times the return on Oslo Børs. The majority has asked the government to set up a sample to ensure that public funds go as far as possible to the production of actual well-being. However, the government has added to the mandate that measures should be proposed to facilitate the use of private operators and more competition in public welfare services. Why will the Right release to more welfare professionals when the majority of population will strengthen their ideal and public welfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e469	I stand by what I said about Red in my post. I think that's all possible reason to give the representative of Moxnes credit for having managed to move the Workers' Party so far to the left, i.e. he and the party Red deserve honor because they are able to trick the working party into the gall. What has happened is that the Workers' Party has committed itself to the rhetoric that the representative Moxnes took with him in the staging room, and he must be quite satisfied that after a year at Stortinget he has been able to move the country's largest party so many steps to the left. Right wants a variety of private offerings, we want ideal offers, and we want public offers. We're going through the models we have today for public management of purchases and services, but the important thing is that we're not now saying that because you earn a crown or a tree in a kindergarten, it's a bad offer. The important thing is that the children get good services, that the elderly get good services, and that the municipalities are responsible for purchasing these services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e477	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e482	For five years, the Progress Party has been in government, and the results show that it plays a role in who governs the country. The level of taxation of enterprises and employees has been reduced. We have tightened our immigration policy. We have removed the inheritance fee. We build a road like never before, and then we make it faster and more reasonable, for example. through the road company Nye Wegener. State funding for the care of the elderly would never have been carried out without the influence of the Advance Party, and now we also have a national elderly representative in place. It's a matter of who's in charge of the country. It matters whether you believe in the individual, in the family, or in the collective. For the Progress Party, it is about using all the good forces: the private, the ideal – and the public. For us, the very essence is that it is the people's own needs that should govern the offer, and that the inhabitants should be able to choose the solutions that best suit themselves and theirs. The Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, recently went out and wanted to re-communalise many services, despite the satisfaction of users and competition between public and private, which contributes to better resource use. Initially, the Workers' Party wanted to raise taxes by 20 billion. kr. How much additional is the cost of taking back private kindergartens, private schools, health services, security services, etc. at the top of it. – and at the top of it, giving children’s families an extra holiday week – is almost not to think about, but it’s going to be expensive. It's going well in Norway. Unemployment declines, declines in secondary education declines, health cows decline and waiting times decrease. At the same time, employment is on the rise, housing is on the rise, and purchasing power is on the rise. So now we have an excellent starting point. We facilitate investment and innovation, and the faith of the future is great. The security and stability we have in Norway is not obvious. Recently, there has been a lot of talk about inequality and increasing differences. Norway is one of the countries in the world with least differences. But also with us too many fall outside, and for the Progress Party is working for an open and inclusive society where everyone has equal opportunities, very important. Unfortunately, the debate on inequality often goes on wrong premises. The left side later believes that the fight against poverty is about increasing taxes for the richest – and cash benefits for those who have the least. The fight against poverty is not won by combating wealth – on the contrary. As sport has understood, the top needs the width, and the width needs the top. Seeing people succeed inspires and motivates. Good economic policy is good social policy. The fight against poverty is about giving people opportunities — through education and working life, and by making demands and rewarding. Work is the most important way out of poverty. Then we need a business that takes social responsibility, that sees people and bets on people. Nor do we escape the fact that increased immigration and poverty are linked. That is why it is essential that we both keep arrivals low and that we succeed even better with integration. Unfortunately, this relationship is too often undercommunicated in the debate on inequality. The key to good integration is work. It is good for the individual and absolutely necessary to ensure the well-being of future generations that all contribute. It's an oak of asphalt across the country. We're doing the railway operations of the times. We build and maintain road as never before. The road transport company Nye Veier is an important part of our ambitious plan for the rapid development of the main road network, responsible for building more than 500 km of motorway over 20 years. The company ensures efficient and comprehensive planning, development, operation and maintenance of traffic-safe roads. I am pleased that the Progress Party has its hand on the steering wheel of the Ministry of Transport. In 2013, the government collected over 10 billion. kr more in car-related taxes than what was used on roads. In 2018, the opposite is true. Now we're using over 10 billion. kr more for road purposes than the car drivers pay in car-related taxes and tolls. The share of tolls in new road projects is falling. Under the red-green came 42 pst. the financing from tolls, whereas this year it is moving towards a share of 28 pst. It's an improvement, but the Advance Party will even more. Last week, the government parties and the Christian People's Party presented an agreement on the tasks to be transferred to the new regions. With this agreement, the agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party on local and regional reform is continued. The regional reform has never been the dream of the Progress Party. Our starting point is two levels of government, with state and municipality. It's not going to be like that. For the Progress Party, it is all the more important now that the four parties on the non-socialist side are united in reducing bureaucracy, with fewer employees in administrative positions, fewer full-time politicians at regional level and more resources for services for citizens and businesses. With the agreement, we commit ourselves to ensuring that the political benefits are moderate, and get guidelines for the levels they may have. Last week, the Minister of Finance announced that the government would propose a reduction in the tax on property so that no municipality would be allowed to have more than 5 per cent of the tax on dwellings and cabins. Those that have 6 or 7 per million have to cut. This applies to 67 municipalities, many of them run by the Workers' Party. Typically, the first response from several rapporteurs of the Workers' Party was to go out against the government and immediately look for ways of implementing the tax system in order to continue to collect as much tax from families and their homes as possible. For the Advancement Party, there is no doubt. People's housing should be a home, not a treasure item. The property tax is an unsocial tax, and it is unpopular rightly. The property tax falls regardless of the ability to pay and how much loans you have on the house and home. It is quite strange that the Workers' Party is such a strong champion of such an unsocial treasure. We want to remove the property tax. What happens now is a first step on the way – hopefully. But the fight against property taxes continues, and will certainly become an important theme in next year's municipal election campaign. For the Progress Party, one of the most important tasks of politicians is to represent the people most. Recently, Consumer Inspectors in the NRK were able to document how Norwegian municipalities take advantage of the concept of self-cost at municipal fees. The difference between municipalities in what is required for water, sewerage and renovation varies by as much as NOK 11 000, despite the fact that the municipalities are not allowed to make money in the service. Even for municipalities with the same waterworks, the differences are enormous and difficult to explain. This indicates that you put different things into the self-cost concept, and that's not acceptable. The Progress Party has long been concerned with the increased and often unreasonable differences in municipal taxes. That is exactly why we also got into the government platform that the principle of self-sufficiency should be reviewed. This work is under way. President - I assume you're grateful that it's President you, and not 'talman'. In our nearest neighbouring country there is political unrest and uncertainty about who will rule. At home, the parliamentary situation has also become somewhat more unclear in the last week. A year ago, the Left made his choice and entered the government. With it the community on the non-socialist side was strengthened. We should respect the fact that the parties make their choices and choose partners based on both ideology, value and practical policy solutions. For us, it's about the state to rule no more than it has to, because we believe both the individual and the individual family are best fit to make the choices themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e524	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e529	Yesterday, the President-in-Office of the Council put his emphasis on the trust between people, the trust between people and the representatives of bigots and the important force it is for Norwegian democracy. There are thoughts and values I'm absolutely sure that we both share. The representative was in his post in terms of security for the inhabitants. In 2015, the government, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party entered into an agreement on the near-police reform. This equation has been bit by bit broken by government for the last three years. My question to the representative Limi is: What does it do with people's confidence in politics that agreements – or conciliation, as one calls it in this house – are not followed up by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e538	Now we probably have a slightly different view of which settlements are followed up, and in what way. There is nothing to suggest that the agreement on the near-police reform is not followed up by government and government parties, rather on the contrary: there are, of course, tremendously many millions more allocated to the justice sector in recent years. However, I fully agree with Mr Mikkel Wara, Minister of Justice, who said on the news this morning that the situation in East police districts is not something we can live with. Measures need to be put in place. And it is first and foremost the individual police officer who is responsible for taking action within his area of responsibility, so we have to assume that the chief of police is addressing this. We can't live with a situation where things accumulate, and where everything goes, so we have to correct that. But the reform itself is now in an implementation phase, and things are happening. I also record that there are some who are negative, but there are also some positive experiences with the reform so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e545	I think that during the day I should be able to provide more examples of violations of the agreement we received, but I am pleased that the representative raises the issue of East police district itself, for the situation that is, especially in East police districts, but also in other police districts, is very demanding, and I think it is wrong to blame the police officers in this context. In the East police district, it's very clear, because the police officer himself says that the police reform itself is a problem for the work they're going to do. Marit Arnstad illustrated it well here, that there are a lot of things waiting. It's serious for people's legal certainty. My question to the representative is therefore: How does my representative relate this – the situation we see in East police districts and also other places, a challenge to people's legal certainty – to what was said in the speech yesterday, that the near police reform strengthens the victim's protection against crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e552	Continuously, the reform of the police must do so, and then the representative of the Workers' Party can certainly draw out negative situations. But then there are also some positive ones. Then we know that it takes some time to implement all the sides of such a great reform – necessarily. And it wasn't my point to say that this is just the police officers' responsibility; it's nobody's, rather the other way around. But it's primarily where you have to grips with it, because it's a leadership responsibility to make things work within their responsibilities and their police district. But I registered that the Minister of Justice today early on direct questions about that situation was also very clear that action needs to be taken here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e557	The parliamentary leader of the Progress Party boasted that the Progress Party has been responsible for the Ministry of Transport, but the Department which has had most crises is also responsible for: the Ministry of Justice. Anders Anundsen's showcasing video of everything that is so much better in the Norwegian police department after the Progress Party has run. But when we travel around Norway, we experience exactly the opposite – that educated police don't get a job. In Finnmark we meet hotel drivers who say that when they call, the police do not come even if they are violent. I have now seen that in Trøndelag it took six hours before the police arrived, but nevertheless Erna Solberg chose yesterday to boast and say that the situation in the Norwegian police is so great. This summer, the Police Union said that in 11 out of 12 police districts, there are crisis-like conditions in the police. Is the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party in disagreement with the Joint Association of Police, or does he see the concerns that confidence voters have around all over Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e566	I do not agree with that situation description. What is the reality is that this government has invested enormously in increasing the resources of the justice sector. The near-police reform is part of the initiative, but we now also have a situation where new police helicopters are ordered and delivered, where a national emergency and training centre is built on Taraldrud, and where all those trained from the Police College are offered a job, and in this year's coal there is already a very high proportion that has been offered it – almost 2,500 new jobs, of which about 500 are available. 1 500 pure police posts. There's a lot of money going on in the justice sector, and we have to keep doing that. So I don't share that description of how the state is, rather on the contrary. When you look at the stakes and what's invested in resources, I'm convinced that they're going to deliver good results, and it's going to be made visible pretty soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e575	The near-police reform has become a far-reaching policy reform. Another area for which the Progress Party has been responsible is the Ministry of Oil and Energy. When Tord Lien took over as State Council, he said he was tired of low power prices – it was shown in an interview in Norwegian media. We have seen that the electricity charges have increased violently when the Progress Party has run, with over 40 pst. As a regular household has marked: higher electricity price and more fee when the Progress Party has managed that department. In the spring we had a big debate in Stortinget about an export cable of electricity, NorthConnect. What NorthConnect himself says is that if that cable is built, the electricity prices in Norway will rise. There will be even higher electricity prices for Norwegian industry, for Norwegian consumers and people who want to create activity in Norway. It is now under consideration in a Progress Party-led department. Does the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party think it is wise for us to export more electricity, which means that Norwegian consumers get higher electricity prices? Or will the Progress Party in the government stop that project?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e584	It's not an automatic thing, as the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, is trying to claim here. We are part of a large European electricity market, and we have been for a long time. It's clear that we're exchanging power in different ways. What we're seeing now is that from having very high power prices, prices have fallen again. There are some people who have lost a lot of money on it, actually – quite dramatic. So the power prices change. I had almost said that they are affected by weather and wind, but they are also affected by other conditions. So I see no reason for us to stop this exchange, and for us to sort of shut ourselves out of a European electricity market. Rather on the contrary: we are well served that we have the opportunity to also be able to buy reasonable electricity from Europe when we need it and it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e590	SV and the Progress Party agreed on the reform of kindergartens and the introduction of a maximum price. This is one of the most important educational reforms in recent times. This government has introduced a reduction in the parental allowance for families with low household income. This sounds good and good. But the scheme doesn't work. 17 000 – 17 000 – who were to get cheaper kindergartens in 2016, it did not. It shows that this is a bureaucratic system. Does the representative realize that this experiment has failed, and that lower prices in kindergartens for all and free half-days where needed mean both less bureaucracy and more families getting help?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e595	Now we still have the maximum price of kindergarten payment, or parental payment. It's a little interesting that it was referred to the kindergarten agreement, for an important prerequisite for implementing it and ensuring almost 100 pst. Coverage was just to be used by private kindergartens. We would not have achieved that goal if we had not let in the private ones, who have provided high quality services. There are consistently satisfied parents in all user surveys. So the quality of kindergarten provision in Norway is now good precisely because we have both public and private actors, and we still have very low rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e600	Now it wasn't the question of private kindergartens that I brought up with the representative, it was the question of bureaucracy and that 17 000 families don't get the help they need. What has the Progress Party done specifically to help these families? I would argue that a maximum 2007 price would help these families much better than the increase in the maximum price that the Progress Party in the government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e605	It is such that the maximum price of kindergarten payment is still low. We have high coverage in kindergartens. Although this is a municipal responsibility, it is also a significant contribution from the government through the budgets to the development of kindergarten staff. So I mean, in sum, we deliver on everything that has to do with kindergartens. If it were to be the case that the parental pension scheme is bureaucratic or not working, you would have to go in and see how it can be improved. I don't know the details in it, and I can't do any good for the numbers and the situation described. But if it is to be right now, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that some measures will be taken to improve the scheme, without having to reverse it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e610	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e615	It's no exaggeration to say that it's going to be a rather special political harvest in the autumn. Many of the debates we are facing in the United Kingdom may be influenced by strategy in relation to both other parties and to a certain degree of political games. The direction of the centre party, no matter how the political harvest progresses, is going to be matters – the matters we have promised our voters to fight for, and the matters we believe can help change Norway. Discussions about the establishment of coalitions are always interesting, but they are persistent to the seventh and last a discussion about instruments. The goal of the Central Party is a new political course, with services close to people, a living government, a community where we take care of each other, where people feel security for life and health, and an international cooperation where fair trade and solidarity with the weakest are strong. The debate on social security and preparedness is a fundamental debate on security for all, and there must be a debate on security for everyone wherever they live in this long-term country – security for help to come quickly if you become acutely ill, security for fires to be extinguished, and for the police to move out quickly when life and health are at stake. Thousands of people in our emergency settings make an amazing effort every day. Last we saw it this summer, when forest fires hermeted both in Norway and Sweden. The stakes of our fire service were of the highest mark. Nevertheless, I think there is reason to say that many around the country feel a greater uncertainty as to whether they will get help quickly enough if anything happens. Centralisation in state agencies is an important reason for this. In recent years, there have been more and more examples of police being late for events or not coming at all. Knife stitching is considered unnecessary, and when printing takes a very long time before the police are in place. So through the police reform, we have had a situation with longer distances, less local prevention and less contact between police and residents. Then we've got a police force that in many cases either doesn't move out, or it's too late. It is quite convincing that both the Labour Party's representative here today and Knut Arild Hareide, the leader of the Christian People's Party, in their speech to the national government last week were rather disappointed at the agreement they made with the government parties on how this police reform has developed. It's easy for the Center Party to understand that they're disappointed in it. The problems in the police are collapsing, but there is no search for seas to see at the government parties. It also confirms the line changes here today, no willingness to look at the crisis conditions that you see in some parts of the police. On the contrary, there is a doubt about the official explanation that everything is in order. Now, a lot of us are asking if it's the way the ambulance service becomes the next emergency situation in which this government is going to contribute to a devastating development of centralization. Ambulance services are now proposed to be modified in many places. Like the police, it's going through the offices and the directorates. Health companies are creating scenarios for the centralisation of ambulances, and it is already the case today that in most municipalities, ambulances do not comply with their response times. In my own constituency, a survey showed that only 4 out of 48 municipalities comply with the times, and in some district municipalities, acutely ill people have to wait an hour – or almost an hour and a half – before the ambulance arrives. For a distress where every minute counts in the work of saving lives, this is dramatic. If health businesses are hit by fewer ambulance stations, there is a problem that will escalate. In addition, it is pointless to centralize such a service at a time when many elderly and sick people actually live at home longer than they did before. The centre party is not going to sit still and watch ambulances centralize, and people lose security to get help quickly. That is why we have also made a proposal in Stortinget, which is to be treated in the autumn, to get statutory response times for the ambulance service. It will provide a clear framework for health businesses to work within. Today, only the municipal fire service is subject to mandatory response time. It is time for the large state agencies to meet the same requirements. In the field of preparedness, unfortunately, the government's policy is influenced by the fact that just everything is getting bigger, it's better. But there won't be any better ambulance service if the ambulance service is centralised. There won't be any better near-police by centralizing the police, and it shouldn't be that in large parts of District Norway it's the fire department that's the first and many times the only one that gets to a damage place. The government's proposal for the coercion of the counties further falters. The government obviously believes that the reform is so important that it should be forced through the cost of what it will cost. For the past six months, Finnmark, by an overwhelming majority, has refused to be joined together, and in the planned Week, all counties have said no to aggregation. Nevertheless, the government seems determined to force the merger through. For once, I agree with VG, who in the leadership position says that this ‘must be one of the most blatant political craftsmanships in a long time’. We are talking about – to quote again VG – ‘fast-track compromises on enclosed rear spaces’. So, without any factual justification, without any established basis, without any logical context and without matching the regional division of the state, the starting point is that one should have eleven counties – ten, eleven counties – and that means that one must establish a merger in North Norway and also the geographic rarity of the Viking. The use of the «think on a number» method can indeed have heavy consequences. Today it almost seems as if there are only formalistic arguments left in this case. The parties behind the decision are obviously governed by some sort of fear that some of them may fail each other in a case where no one really has any will to defend the outcome they are left with. It's not nice that people shake their heads over what's happening. The best advice we can give when we look at this play is to come along, I'd like to pick up from the mountain weather rules: it's no shame to turn around. Globalisation has marked the political debate since the 1980s. We have been constantly hearing the following messages in ever-new packaging: the national states are not large enough to meet the future, they are too old-fashioned. It is claimed that economics, technology, culture, politics and the environment require the national state to change the system and transfer power either to supranational bodies or to the market, or preferably to both parts at the same time. Nyliberalism or market liberalism had a kind of moral initiative around 1980 with Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan. When the Communist Eastern bloc collapsed at the end of the 1990s, it seemed that nothing could stop the withdrawal of politics and the emergence of the market. All of this affected the world’s perception of policy opportunities and policy constraints. It is a trend the centre party has constantly problematized, and for a party with deep roots in Norwegian counterculture it is quite natural. The Central Party will promote the democratic and liberal nation state as an ideal, and thus also intergovernmental cooperation. The centre party is not afraid of the market. The market is, after all, the best mechanism we have to regulate supply and demand, but market forces must always be balanced by popular governance. The democratic institutions of the people can never lean back. Our criticism of market liberalism and supranationality is about popular rule and well-being, about sensible management of nature and also about international solidarity. Our model is a Norway that is open to the world, but also a Norway where we maintain national control over the central political tools, which enable us to secure our social model with full employment, with decent working life, with a business that can grow in all parts of the country, with a well-developed and decentralised welfare society and with a people's regime that ensures that people can influence decisions that affect them. In today's debate, the Central Party is tabling a number of proposals. One of those proposals is to ask for a large-scale report on charging policy to be submitted. Fee policy has become an important topic in many policy debates in recent years. How does charging policy affect the competitiveness of our national business? How does the charging policy turn out to be distributive? There are two of the topics that are regularly under discussion. I have also noticed that some parties are concerned about how municipal taxes are organised, and whether they really cover sea food. Common to various aspects of the criticism of the charging system is that it affects equally regardless of the economy, and therefore, by its very nature, is unsocial. These different aspects of charging policy should be widely discussed and seen in the context, and this will give us the opportunity to hear a big picture. With that, I'll be allowed to take up the proposals of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e651	The representative of Marit Arnstad has then taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e658	The representative Arnstad was in his speech about both the drought and the need for democratic governance in a broad sense. We've had one of the worst drought situations in Eastern Europe in over 100 years. Then it is interesting that the representative in his speech was in the right-liberalist side – who is now in government – who, during the worst drought at first, said they should sit still, they should be passive, and they would not invest fresh funds to take care of agriculture. Luckily, from the agricultural majority we put up and pressed the Advance Party and the Right in place, which has helped to remedy the situation. My question to the representative is whether the Central Party will continue with the Workers' Party in the process of strengthening our agriculture in meeting the climate challenges we face, in order to provide safe food in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e667	I thank you for the opportunity to say something about things I didn't cover in my post, because I think the drought we had this summer illustrates several important political debates. One it illustrates is the climate issues – how important they are and will be in the future – and the other is the debate on both how to reduce emissions and how to drive climate prevention in our own society. I think that will be two important debates in the future. For the agricultural sector, in particular, the drought also illustrates the need to have food preparedness and food security related to own production. This time we'll sort of get through it, and maybe we'll be able to import what we need, but it's clear that in a more stressed situation we can also experience that Norway will no longer be able to import everything we need, that there can be a conflict about part of what we're going to import from food. Then your own food preparation is very important. The Centre Party and the Workers' Party have agreed to establish new cereal stocks, which are important in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e674	I thank you for your answer. Just grain storage is an interesting example, because in this hall, in ours, the liberalist Jon Georg Dale thought we shouldn't have any kind of grain storage because we didn't know what to do with stockpiles. It is a bit funny that it comes from a government that has claimed that preparedness should be an important matter. It is difficult to provide security for people in a situation where you only have bullets and no food to feed the population. Of course, we also see that we need to maintain the food industry we have, we need secure access to raw materials. That's why the kind of storage that we agreed on here in ours is important to provide the future for thousands of jobs in our country. The evening post was on this very topic in a management article on 1 September, and it was quite clear that there is a great need to meet the challenges we are seeing. Probably the right can wait a majority towards itself because we have the agricultural majority with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e681	I also believe that in this area there will be a slightly more sensible number of large-scale farms than what the Minister for Agriculture of the Progress Party has said. It'll be able to control a lot of the politics. We've shown that in terms of cereal stocks, and that was very important. I also think this is important when it comes to using land in all parts of the country. Norway is a country with a small cultivated area. We have to use the entire cultivated area, and we have to avoid building it down. So we have to take care of the soil protection. We also have to keep our outsmart in claim. The representative Sandtröen comes from a state where unfortunately parts of the county are drained for grazing animals – for sheep on pasture and for cattle on pasture – because of a predatory policy that has gone over the board, where one is not willing to keep down the stock of predators in such a way that one can actually graze in those areas. It's a terrible shame to look at and a little forward-looking policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e689	The NRK has checked through in fact.no party leader Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum's claims regarding government and centralisation. The conclusion is wrong. There is a record low unemployment in districts, fewer municipalities have never been on the ROBEK list, forestry has its best year in 2017 since 1989, production growth is strong in agriculture, and less use is cut. These are good results for District Norway. Then my question is, what has been the failure in the Central Party's policy over eight years, since they can't point to similar results?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e696	There has become a license plate for government parties now, that they are not at all willing to problem what they have done or have not done. If the near-police reform, which is still called the near-police reform but, as we all know, is a far-reaching reform of the police, they continue to hold on to an official explanation. Everyone sees that this has meant centralization, and everyone sees that this means that the police are either not coming, or that they are spending much longer time. But the Right Party and the Advance Party hold fast to their official explanation. They probably do that in other matters too, but there's no doubt here that there's a number of centralizations going on, bit by bit, in the state agencies. Many examples can be mentioned: the state road service, which is now centralising part of its offices, and HELFO, which is now centralising part of its activity — important state jobs that are now being pulled away from districts and into more central areas. It must be allowed to point out that development. Then we're going to give commendation to the extent that the government needs to get praise. We're going to give them credit where it's right and necessary, but it also has to be possible to point out the actual conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e707	It is also allowed to point out the fact that there was a documented need to do something about the Norwegian police. I have also noticed that the Senterpartiet has blackwashed the government's bet on the country power in Finnmark. The fact is that the GSV, the garrison in South Varanger, is now becoming a light infanteribatalion and gets heavier weapons, the garrison in Porsanger is restored with a cavaleribatalion, Finnmark Land defence is restored, where the national forces are placed under a common command, and HV, the Home Guard, is also strengthened in Finnmark in terms of crew and weapons. What more will the Central Party do for the Defence and Land Power in Finnmark, and what can the Central Party point to, in terms of its defence policy over eight years, in terms of strengthening the defence of Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e716	It has not been documented that one needs to carry out the centralisation of the police that this government has now carried out. It is not documented, as the representative of the Rivers says. On the contrary: it is on a very failed basis that this has been proposed. The Djørv Commission has never asked you to centralize the police in this way – just to have responded. It is true that the government has prioritised Finnmark, but the problem with this government is that they have done it at the expense of other areas. It goes at the expense of HV in the south, in Agder and Rogaland, for example, and elsewhere. It is not that they have made new, fresh bets – but they have chosen to take from other places, and then they have given a little to Finnmark, so they can say that they have strengthened it a little in the north. But at the same time, they have both chosen to weaken the military helicopter support at Bardufoss – they also do not comply with their promises in the budgetary agreement at that point – and to convert the 2nd battalion into a mobilized department, which is also a clear weakening.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e723	The centre party often talks about proximity and security, and that we have to make it possible to live throughout the country. People's private homes may be the closest we get security, and are, along with work, income and family ties, the very basis for us living right where we live. Now we know that the Progress Party has had an impact in government for the proposal to reduce property taxes by nearly 30 p.m., from 7 per million to 5 per million, which will make it even easier to live where you live, especially outside the cities, since we who live in the districts have higher costs to get to many of the offers we and our children want to participate in. Can we hope that the Centre Party will agree with us in order to reduce the opportunities of municipalities to tax their homes, so that people can live where they want to? Does the Center Party agree that the fairest way to pay taxes is to pay off what you earn and buy, not what you live in? Or is it that while the Center Party is talking about being able to live where you want to, they fold away when they get the opportunity to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e730	The state budget for 2019 has not been delivered to His Majesty the King. It has not been submitted to Stortinget. What the representative is now referring to is a leak from the State budget. The centre batch has no basis for saying what are the calculations around that leakage. We do not know the content related to that leakage. Therefore, it is completely impossible for me to comment on the content of the changes that may possibly be proposed in the State budget. That means I can't give the representative an answer to it right now, but I can promise that the Central Party, on the day the State budget is formally presented correctly and correctly, will go through the proposals that are coming, including with regard to property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e735	I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to raise the issue of a pension from the first penny. In this particular case, I am a pretty good example myself. I started working every other weekend that replaces when I was 13 years old, and when I worked extra for my vacation, the farmer travelled with his family on his vacation. I worked this way until I was 19 years old, and then I started as an apprentice. When I was a little over 20 years old, I received a letter in the post office about a service pension. First, I was entitled to a service pension. What does the representative Arnstad think about this? Isn't it a little unfair for anyone who starts working before they're 20 years old to be cheated on for a service pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e742	I think it's an interesting story that the representative Lerbreck tells. There may be aspects of the pension agreement that we entered into, which it is necessary to review, and I do not overlook that this may be one of them. But the Central Party Group has not taken a position on that proposal. We are also somewhat uncertain as to whether it is right to decide such a question through a representative proposal in Stortinget, or whether it should undergo a more thorough investigation in this case – both because the proposal itself is far-reaching and can have high costs, and because there may be other issues that we should look at more closely. We are going to go into the debate and the discussion of the proposal with an open mind, but we have not yet taken a position on it or accepted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e749	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e754	The finest thing about Norway is not fjords and mountains. It's not even Bergen. The finest thing about Norway is small differences and strong communities, and the communities were created through a policy that, decades after decades, prioritised the consideration of the majority. Norway was built for the many, not for the few. Workers took power over their own lives to gain a greater share of the values. The welfare state was fought to ensure health, knowledge and security for all. A tax system was created to re-distribute, balance and reduce inequality. For the past five years we have had a government that has broken this policy, a government that has led a policy for the few at the top. The government contributes to increasing disparities in power and wealth and is the debilitator of action in the face of catastrophic climate change. The drought this summer was another reminder of the consequences of climate change and that they are here. It's urgent to cut emissions. Then it could look like a joy when the climate minister announced a few weeks ago that greenhouse gas emissions in Norway decreased by 1.7 pst. last year. It's just one problem with the government's boast history, and that's that it's not true. The reason for the decline in emissions in Norway is that 317 million tonnes of biofuels based on palm oil have been imported and used in the last year. Calculations from the Rain Forest Fund also show that the production of palm oil imported by Norway led to a much higher greenhouse gas emissions than the reduction claimed by the government that Norway has achieved. The only contribution of the blue government is to cut rainforests in Indonesia, not greenhouse gases in Norway. The cutting of rainforest is not a climate action. Across the distinctions between Norwegian policies, we need to recognise that existing policies are not sufficient. New action has to be taken, and it's urgent. Therefore, the Stortinget in the autumn should gather for a new climate settlement. We are taking this formal initiative today by promoting 40 proposals – together with the Workers' Party – which will all contribute to real, efficient and fast greenhouse gas emissions cuts. It should form the starting point for a broad settlement where all parties are invited to make concrete initiatives to bring the emissions down. While the government's talk of climate is a bluff, the government's welfare cult and the petty, unsocial cuts against people who have little, most real ones. For almost five years, we've had a government that has deliberately spent over 20 billion dollars. kr on tax cuts that mostly go to the richest, while those with normal incomes depend on them, and many of them with at least less. That policy has produced results, it's just giving the bourgeois parties. There have been record billionaires in Norway – 308 now, 38 more than last year – and there have been record numbers of children in poor families in Norway, over 100 000. The ones at the top pull away, the ones at the bottom of the table get more. The blue government has rigged the Norwegian economy for the economic elite. SV will reverse that trend by raising the tax on wealth, introducing a new and fair inheritance tax, bringing in more from them at the top of the community. At the same time, we will increase child welfare, lower the tax on people with income below NOK 600 000 and invest more in school, hospitals and well-being. We will conduct an economic policy for the many, not for the few. The most outrageous thing about this government's unsocial distribution policy is the way the blues have sent the bill for top-class taxation to people who have little, and to people who are sick. They have done so without even examining the consequences for everyone who is affected. Every time we ask about it – and we have often asked that – we get wool to answer. Now it's time for the Storting to show respect for the many who have paid the price for the government's prioritization of the rich, and forcing the government at least to investigate the social consequences. It's not numbers we're talking about, it's real problems, real everyday lives, real people. That's why I intend to use the rest of my contribution to read out the proposals, because only the amount emphasizes the extent of the social injustice that the bourgeois majority stands for. We want the Stortinget to ask the government to investigate the consequences for those affected by the cuts in housing support in recent years. We want the Storting to ask the government to investigate the consequences for those who are hit by the cuts in disability due to the government's unfair conversion model. We want the Stortinge to ask the government to investigate the consequences for those who are hit by the cuts in undressed children's supplements. We want the Stortinget to ask the government to investigate the consequences for those who are hit by four years of cut purchasing power for many pensioners. We want the Stortinge to ask the government to investigate the consequences for those affected by the child-restraint cuts for people in Finnmark and Nord-Troms. We want the Stortinget to ask the government to investigate the consequences for those affected by the constant cuts in legal aid measures. We want the Stortinge to ask the government to investigate the consequences for those who are affected by the cuts in the transitional aid for lone dependants. We want the Stortinget to ask the government to investigate the consequences for those affected by the cuts in favour of those who depend on the car to get to the store or to the doctor. We want the Storting to ask the government to investigate the consequences for those who are hit by the cuts in free physiotherapy for fire damage, people with developmental disabilities, amputees and all the other groups who have lost this free help. We want the Storting to ask the government to investigate the consequences for those who are affected by the cuts in maternity care. We want the Stortinget to ask the government to investigate the consequences for those who are hit by cuts in redundancy payments. We want the Stortinge to ask the government to investigate the consequences for those affected by the cuts in the criminal justice system. We want the Stortinget to ask the government to investigate the consequences that the hospitals did not get the 75 million. kr, as the government itself says it cost when the hospitals were given responsibility for the infringement reception. We want the Storting to ask the government to examine the consequences for those affected by the fact that families with children in receptions cannot receive more than NOK 10 000 in monthly social benefits, no matter how many children they have. Finally, we want the Stortinge to ask the government to examine the impact of the cuts in property taxes and inheritance taxes on the distribution in society and whether there is any positive impact on business. I'm afraid, of course, that when the Stortinget, hopefully tomorrow instructs the government to do this, it will turn out that the economic policy that citizens have faced has had concrete negative effects on many of those who have the least, and people who are ill in our society, while it has had no positive effect on job creation and economic development, other than to make those who already have more than enough from before, even richer. It's building Norway for the few, not for the many. It's breaking the tradition that this society is built on. It's taking Norway the wrong way. I'd like to ask the parties at Stortinget to vote for these proposals, so that we finally show respect for those who have been hit by unsocial cuts in recent years, and take their life situation seriously. There will be no surprises from the big group to the Socialist Left this autumn. We know who we are, who we are for, and why we are here. We're going to use every day to work for fair distribution and environment – a policy for the many, not for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e778	The representative of Audun Lysbakken has drawn up SV's proposal. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e785	The representative Lighthouse started his speech by saying that Norway is a fine place to be, that there are small differences between people and strong communities, and the Labour Party fully agrees. We in the Workers' Party are therefore concerned about the increased social differences in right-wing government. In the census, Erna Solberg has no concrete proposal to reverse the negative development, and that's exactly what might worry even more, because then, of course, progress will only continue in the wrong direction. Now I expect that the representative Lightbakken shares the concerns of the Workers' Party, and if so, what concrete measures against poverty and increased disparities will he consider to be the most important ones and that at the same time it may be possible to bring together new centres-left majority in the back of this ageing period?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e790	That's an important question, because if a new majority is to be built, there has to be a majority for real change that benefits ordinary people. I believe it is essential to judge the tax system because it has been designed in recent years to systematically serve them at the top in front of ordinary people. This means that taxes should be paid on ordinary labour income, while the tax on large incomes and wealth, and also on large inheritances, must be increased or reintroduced. I think it is important that we make sure that we give the poorest families in Norway more of their lives. The most effective way to do this is to significantly increase child welfare. And I believe it is essential that we guarantee ownership of our common resources for the future, so that they can benefit the whole people and not just a few. This is one of the reasons why SV is today making proposals to ensure the repatriation of fisheries resources. It is a hugely important issue of distribution for the future that not a few shipowners and quota barons remain on the large fishing resources, but that more of them come back to the coast so that revenue can be distributed and jobs created in our coastal communities. That's all the areas where I think and hope that it can be possible for the left-hand side and the center to come together. So I would encourage the Workers' Party to think about it again with inheritance taxes, because it's actually an important question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e795	It is clear that the real will of the centre-left to arrive at compromises is a fundamental prerequisite for achieving results. One area where we've actually done some of it is within securing decent work, free from social dumping and the avoidance of employee rights. There we have already achieved some results, such as through compromises in the Storting. in the case of restrictions on rental. I want to ask the same questions in that policy area. What matters does the representative Lysbakken see that we can bring together a new majority to ensure a decent working life for ordinary workers during the current ageing period?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e800	It is one of the most important questions if we are to bring down differences in power and wealth in Norway, and I hope and believe, even though the SV's primary position in ours was – and still is – that we want the recruitment agencies entirely out of Norwegian working life, that the decisions for which we were given majority voting can contribute to a necessary cleanup, not least in the country's construction sites, where trustees now have a new means of power in their hands. We need to do more to ensure a more regulated, fairer working life. We are promoting a proposal today that we hope the Labour Party and others will look closely at, to legislate for full time, because involuntary part-time is a great injustice and a great challenge in our working life. We agree to ask Stortinget to say no to the EU railway package that will legislate for the future competitive deployment of the railway. We agree on the important proposal for a pension from the first penny. Then I hope that the Workers' Party will also be with us in terms of saying no to the profit of well-being, which is also an important issue of working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e805	Let me first be allowed to boast of the Audun Lighthouse. He has managed to return SV. He is a clear voice and a driving capable debater. Others on the left could be inspired. I have no illusions that anything I say here will fix him in any way. But I have some questions. In 2017, SV opted to cut greenhouse gases, but the ambition they presented in 2017 was not enough to achieve the 2020 targets. So why cancelled the SV 2020 targets in 2017? In the extension of that, they put forward 42 proposals in spring to achieve the 2020 targets. However, if you look at those proposals, you can see that they will not contribute to achieving the 2020 targets. Several of them will be implemented after 2020. The question then arises: if proposals are to be made to achieve the 2020 targets, should there not be proposals to achieve the 2020 targets?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e812	Yes, you should. And those who have the highest responsibility to make proposals to achieve the 2020 targets are Stefan Heggelund and his colleagues who run Norway. In the absence of an offensive government in the climate field, and unfortunately also, I have to say, until now in the absence of an offensive working party in the climate field – it now seems to be changing, because we are united on these 40 proposals we are promoting today – SV has had to take responsibility. We have shown that we have a primary position for very fast, clear and strong greenhouse gas emissions cuts, but also that we have had proposals that are still much better than the Right and Workers' Party, but which are somewhat more moderate in relation to what we ourselves wanted. That is why we presented two plans before the last elections. We showed a plan for how we would like to do it, and then we showed another plan as an absolute requirement for the government and the Labour Party, because we wanted to get them going on climate policy. That's what I'm in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e817	For many years, non-Western immigration into Norway has been at a level that is not sustainable for the Norwegian welfare model in the longer term if the pace continues. Only in the last ten years have the number of children living in poor families with migrant backgrounds doubled. While there is a low proportion of poor children without a migrant background in the population, there are as many as four out of ten children with a migrant background living in poverty. The Party is committed to further slowing down immigration and ensuring the integration of those who are already in the country. This is crucial if the differences in Norway are not to increase more in the coming years and if we are to succeed in reducing poverty. Increased poverty and increased disparities are a consequence of high levels of immigration from non-Western countries. Why does SV want high immigration to Norway from non-Western countries, which in turn leads to increased disparities and more poor families in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e822	If the Progress Party were concerned about increasing differences, they would not be pursuing a policy of letting the richest subtract, as the Progress Party consistently does by always listening to the economic elite and those who have the most. They would not pursue a policy of rigging the tax system for those who have the most in place of ordinary workers. They would not lead a policy to avoid doing anything about poverty, for example. to keep the child’s fear down. I could still. The Progress Party is trying to make the whole debate on differences a debate on immigration. The reality is that poverty is also increasing among ethnic Norwegian children, and the main solution to poverty and differences problems is, as it has always been, the cohesion of living conditions and a more equitable economy. It's the answer regardless of what background those living in poverty have. I would also like to call on the Progress Party, if they are concerned with the impact of immigration on pre-distribution, not to make it a cultural issue, but for example. also start to look at the consequences of the regulation of labour immigration with the Progress Party in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e831	One of the former Minister of Justice Listhaug's battle cases was to impose a death fee in Norway. Anyone who wanted to have a replacement certificate would pay money for it – something that had been a free public service. It was to be used to finance some tax cuts for a few very few. What's amazing about the Progress Party is that when the Progress Party took over the government power, the tax level in Norway was 6 600 million. kr lower. So when SV was in government, it was 6 600 million. kr less in taxes in Norway than is currently the case. My question to the representative Lightbakken is: When SV left the government in 2013, he had believed that after five years with the Advance Party in government, it would be 6 600 million. D more in taxes in Norway, and not less?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e838	I also remember that once there was a Progress Party that was for a fairer tax system – at least tax laws for most people. Instead, we have received tax relief for them at the top and an unmistakable tax relief policy, and tax increases, for ordinary workers. It is as I have said before that 'for the most people' is false marketing. Now the ‘most popular’ applies to the Progress Party. In the case of SV's tax policy, SV is the party on Stortinget which proposes the maximum tax relief for people with income below NOK 600 000. That's because we want a strong redistribution. So I agree with Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum that we need to be careful to get a tax system where too little goes on taxing high incomes and too much on taxes that make independently of income. It is also the case that SV is for destroying the environment to cost. A price must be set for pollution. That's why we go beyond the Senterpartie with some environmental taxes. We stand for that. But it has to be combined with a reddish tax system, which provides lower taxes on the work of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e848	What we know is that biofuels cut emissions in Norway – in the transport sector 9 pst. in 2017. A few days ago, Biokraft’s forest facilities were opened. Government plans its pilot plant at Tofte. We have to get palm oil out of the tank. It requires more biofuel production in Norway and the Nordic countries. When SV joined the government, Norway’s first major biofuels plant in Eastfold was punctured. So there's not exactly a relationship between what one says and what one does. If the representative Lysbakken heard Marit Arnstad's comments from the Central Party about a new course, she talked a little about climate. But in the climate negotiations in spring, on the climate strategy, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party voted with the government parties on the 2030 objectives. How is the Socialist Left Party going to get to this changed course? Are they standing in a swing door clamp with the Workers' Party on the outside of a red-yellow government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e857	SV has now delivered 40 proposals two hours ago, together with the Workers' Party, which show that there is now movement and greater red consensus on green policy. After all, there must be strong reflection for the Left, who has chosen to marry the Progress Party – a government cooperation that makes it impossible for the clinic to achieve an effective climate policy, which is clearly demonstrated by the fact that the biofuel policy that the representative Kjenseth is talking about, cuts rainforest in Indonesia instead of cutting greenhouse gas emissions. So the challenge, I mean, and that I want to give back to the Left, is the following: the greenest environmental parties are in minority on the Storting. That means we have to negotiate with each other. When we were in government, we were given the impression that we were going to negotiate broad climate agreements, because we knew that there would be more impact for us and for the Left in that way. It doesn't do the left. The Left thus ensures that they are sitting alone and negotiating with the right-hand side instead of negotiating widely in the Stortinget. [[President clubs]] It has to be left...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e864	Time's up. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e871	Greener, lighter and more social liberal. The goal of the Left Party, when we went to government negotiations early this year, was to draw the policy to government in an even greener, more red and more social-liberal direction, closer to the centre. One shall read the government statement with reasonable paired spectacles in order not to be in agreement that we have closed it. Or to refer to the King's throne speech and the six main challenges the blue-green government prioritises: transforming the Norwegian economy to create new jobs and more bones to stand on meeting the climate obligations of Norway, so that we take our share of responsibility creating an inclusive working life and ensuring that those who, for various reasons, have difficulty entering the labour market are closed down, something which is not least about knowledge, schooling and access to continuing education and training. ensuring good and sustainable welfare arrangements reducing poverty and outreach implementing an integration promise Some of the best things about Norway are community based on cohesion and tolerance, with little differences, with people who are so safe on themselves, have their history and identity that together we are able to meet the unknown and uncertain lack of respect and sincere willingness to stand up for each other and the world out there. The left is Norway's only social liberal party. All politics, all positions, are based on an ideology in which tolerance, lack, freedom, community, international solidarity and future-optimism are guiding values. If freedom is to be real to all, it must also be free from distress, poverty and inequality. It is the social dimension that explains why Left will always fight for early action, for a strong public school and against child poverty, and thus ensure everyone – regardless of background, the social status of parents and adopters – the same starting point, just to prevent and ensure small differences. Social liberalism also lays the foundations of a human vision that implies that they show confidence, take responsibility for themselves and others, which in turn explains why Left will always have the aim of moving the most possible power, tasks and resources as close as the citizens can afford. We want strong communities where people live and live. The left will therefore always be a party that stands up for local democracy, the spread of power, jobs and cultural services – whether it is built or built in a city. ‘Community’ is not a social democratic or socialist word, but a warm, beautiful word. The big difference between the Left and Other Genuine Centers community is that there is community where people live and live – not community that is usually synonymous with a strong omnipotent state. And unlike social democracy and socialists, equality is not but equivalency. If you treat everyone the same, you treat everyone differently because we have different needs. A warm society sees the individual and sees the individual and not the system in the center. When we listen to the opposition party's black measurement of the state of things, practice phrases to enhance an image of centralization, a colder society and a brutalised working life, it must necessarily be read in context that they tire of matching the policies of the Left and the other two government parties, often reinforced and processed by the Christian People's Party. Let's turn the clock back a few years – to the autumn of 2013. We had had eight years of red-green plurality, with the party that has the greatest persuasiveness as a district party, the centre party, at the steering wheel, with a government that administered the perhaps most violent centralization of human beings, power and jobs to the Oslo region for a long time. The relocation of state workplaces was almost non-existent. The extra use of billions of oil in the wake of the financial crisis mainly led to the strengthening of the public sector. The private sector workplaces they later boasted in the infinitesimal range were usually 24-hour work places with foreign frontier workers, jobs that disappeared as quickly as they arrived. In agriculture, bingeing, pessimism and bureaucracy were central. When we came to power after the 2013 elections, the Left was determined that this was a development we should do what we could to turn around – a hold we definitely shared with the Christian People's Party. The sum of what we've done together and in good, trusting cooperation with the Right Party and the Progress Party, is indisputable district policy of a completely different calibre than what they stood for. It's going to cost business. The unemployment rate is record low. Systematic efforts to sustain the environment and industry have ensured that our industry is close to markets that have more and more green values as drivers, and are well on the way into a new era. Optimism and the willingness to invest are back in agriculture. When the then government tried to change agricultural policy through the agricultural agreement in 2014, the Left and the Christian People's Party stopped it effectively and went into the brink of an agricultural message that ensures a viable framework for the future. And when the negotiations ended in the summer with crimes, the phase of the year was a record success, especially for small and medium-sized applications. Would a Minister of Agriculture from the Centre Party – in government with a press Workers' Party, which has expressed some very expensive promises in areas that are more at stake for the Workers' Party than agriculture – necessarily put greater sums on the table than today's Government, when the Workers' Party at the same time knows that the tolerance limits to the peasant organizations towards a Central Party State Council are significantly right than to a Progress Party State Council? The Left Party and the Christian People's Party not only ensure that a third elected level of government will exist, but also that it will be given more power, more tasks and resources. Most people are given greater opportunity to influence the way Community resources are disposed of. The regions are strengthened at the cost of the state. In the field of transport, the sum of the priorities of the four non-socialist parties has resulted in a high level of maintenance, while on the road, track, public transport and bicycles are high. I am now in the Labour and Social Committee, and rarely have I worked on a policy area where the rhetoric and the so-called conflicts between position and opposition are more contrived than there. Fortunately, there is a cross-political agreement on the major lines of Norwegian labour policy. Party cooperation must be suspended and strengthened; the degree of organisation must be increased. Social dumping and criminal enterprises contributing to the brutalisation of working life are to be reduced and punished. And what else have we done in the four parties after we had the power to strengthen the control system and the resources to bring the crime of working life to life, among other things. through the creation of seven new work-life centres to reduce work-life crime? I repeat: seven new workplaces. We have set behind us a record summer that has caused great difficulties in feed and food production – a heavy warning of what we are waiting for if we do not prevent the worst climate change. It is serious for Norwegian farmers, but even worse for professional brothers and sisters in poorer countries, who notice climate change even more strongly on the body. I am therefore very pleased that the Left is part of a government and a cooperation that not only prioritises climate policy but also has a record effort on aid and action to lift more out of poverty and poverty, and that we have a government and a prime minister who puts great emphasis and strength in different international contexts and forums to help the world lift up. And even though the old red-green government parties – the Labour Party and the Center Party – now say the right things when it comes to climate, a good look in the alternative government budgets of their last years is to find the great connection between rhetoric and real will. It's actually very gross, because although there's a completely different rate and extent of the climate action with the Left in position, it's going too late. We would like to have more drag help – both on the inside and on the outside. Me and the Left look forward to the work in Stortinget in the fall and winter. We should contribute to a lighter, greener, more social liberal policy and social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e920	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e925	The representative Breivik spoke about a greener society and called for cooperation on open and real emissions. He will have that, and he will see – in a short time – a very clear context, at least in the Workers' Party's alternative budgets, between our ambition to be a responsible governing party and the recognition that responsible governance in the 21st century is about governing within nature's tolerance limits. That is why it is amazing to me that, after they joined the government, the Left has, in practice, abdicated from its own promises of independent national emission targets and has joined the Progress Party and the Right in saying that when we set international targets – which we agree with – they should also be achieved, not least through what is called the EU effort allocation mechanism. That's good in theory, but in practice there's so much profit that you can buy a lot of allowances from there that won't lead to any real emission cuts anywhere. That is why the Workers' Party and SV have merged on a number of proposals for concrete cut here and now, with known technology in Norway, and I invite the Left to join in. I would like to hear Breivik's comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e934	I really welcome it if what is happening in the Chamber today from the Labour Party is a real new course and a real will to also in practical action to show that they are willing to prioritize climate action against all the others, in my opinion, very expensive promises the Labour Party has come in recent times. For the Left, climate policy is about having a fundamental belief that we are fully capable of mitigating the worst impacts of climate change. One sees that the efforts of the Left in the Christian People's Party and the other two government parties over the last few years have put on the table in real money have led to a completely different drive in technology development and innovation – green growth. The proposals of the Workers' Party and SV have put on the table, I will of course read carefully before drawing final conclusions on behalf of my party tomorrow evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e943	I thank you for the recognition of the Labour Party's policy. It would have pleased me even more if the Left didn't move in the opposite direction, because then it would have been easier to get a majority here, but we're going to negotiate well together for months to come, about climate-friendly budgets. But I want to raise a very specific question, and that is the idea of a CO 2 fund. It was already adopted in the 2017 state budget and the objective is 4 pst. in annual reductions. The business community has taken this with enthusiasm and said that they would like to manage this, and thus contribute to innovative new approaches that will allow us to have large emission reductions, with a limited cost for the state in terms of this fund, while the Left's climate and environment minister, Elvesuen, has said that he does not want it. He says no to this business proposal, and instead he wants this to be managed by Enova. Why won't the Left be involved in using this opportunity for a concrete partnership with the business community on CO 2 reduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e956	I think the most important thing for the climate is not who administers different schemes, but that we actually share with business – and it's very good that business is a driver – get a CO 2 fund in place, according to the model of the so-called NO X fund, and that it actually works. Anyone who has looked into the ‘technicalities’ of the NO X fund knows that getting a CO 2 fund that works almost as well is something more complex. So I think that together, the climate would have made a bigger bone if we had pieces of heads together and thought out wise solutions with business in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e975	Left and Breivik boast of their efforts in district policy today. It's strange to be right, as even the left's own members shrink over the policy that centralizes the country. Several of the local government representatives of the Left have resigned because one is simply protesting against the centralising policy. Are people in the districts stupid? Take the regional reform: it was the red-green government that moved the real power and money from the central power to the state. Now, you can just move some of your already out-of-office jobs, and maybe double them into county administration. KS says that 0.2 pst. of the budget and 100 workspaces is the result of this fantastic reform following the Left. What is the left number of workspaces that have been moved from the central authority to regions? What part of the state budget will it be?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e982	I am so lucky that I myself live in a typical district municipality – the world's most beautiful village, Ulvik, with 1,100 inhabitants – and people who are not stupid in any way. There is no doubt that centralisation has been going on for a long, long time. I think we have a common task of trying to do something with the strong forces that attracted both power, resources and jobs, especially to the central Auslands region. All those who have tried to shift power, tasks and jobs from the state to the districts know that there are quite strong counterpowers. One of the really heavy arguments against this is that today's county councils have been too small. So now that we've finally been able to put in place larger county councils, I also hoped that the centre party would help make that reform as good as possible, and fill it with the most possible content.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e990	The Central Party wants to do that, but hopefully we'll stop the whole reform, because what they're doing is just wool. There's a lot of wool and a lot of sheep. But I have another question for the representative from the left. During the work of the Stortinget with the defence long-term plan, the Left showed a great deal of commitment. When one came into the government, one had turned on a lot of the positions you had when we put together in the committee and discussed. The Health Declaration stated that the government should evaluate today's system of integrated strategic renting in the sector in terms of reform and improvement. ‘Strengthening the role of the Chief of Defence as Head of Unit’, it said. In the Jeløya Declaration, which the Left was present and negotiated, this wording is drawn out. The declaration was negotiated between the existing government and the Left, and it is therefore close to believing that it was the Left who demanded that the wording be made out. What is the reason why one of the Yeluia Declarations no longer enters into the process of evaluating the system of integrated strategic leadership in the Ministry of Defence and giving more power to the head of defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1001	Of course, the left has the same position in defence policy today as we had in the previous period, when we also took part in the negotiations on the so-called defence agreement. Of course, the representative Navarsete knows that the left was on the sideline of the final decision. I also assume that the representative Navarsete, with a good reputation from himself to sit in government, knows that in government negotiations, a few blows win and loses other blows. What's very good on behalf of the Defense Department is that today's government then until those degrees are willing to give priority to the defense effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1008	There was a certain expectation in us that we were working on justice policy, when the Left came into the government, because we actually share many of the same basic positions in the field of justice. That is why we were also very pleased that the Left was able to prevent a proposal for permanent armed use of the police from entering the Jeleia Declaration. There is a complete agreement between the Left and the SV. At the same time, we have seen that after the Left joined the government, the police have been getting more and more weapons on their hips. The government has received a majority for permanent point-arming, and the Minister of Justice has also notified the Stortinget that he authorises police patrols in Oslo to carry weapons. We have called this the cutting-off of weapons on the hip of the police, and this has happened while the Left has been in government. My question to the representative Breivik is: Isn't he not also concerned about this slippage of ever more weapons to the police, and what will he do to prevent this from slipping out even more?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1015	I really want to start by giving tribute to the representative Eide for the debate that was about point-arming just before the Stortinget took a vacation, when the representative held a very good principled ground-breaking post, and in which the Left was far along the way, in all the principal sons. I can promise both the representative, Eide, Stortinget and those who follow the debate, that the weapons of the police will be a matter of high priority both internally in government and here in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1020	I have a great deal of respect and sympathy for Mr Breivik's views on these issues. And then I'm very happy that he's taking this with him, as I'm now saying, into the left, and that it also has consequences for how the government works with it. Now the Minister of Justice has announced that he will come back to the Stortinget with some new proposals to arm the police. I would like to ask the representative Breivik about the Left's big group via the government has been briefed on this, and in that case how he has viewed this, and what advice he has given to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1025	I can promise the representative Eide that the armaments of the police are a policy area where the Left is heavy on the ground with its primary position both in the Stortinget, in the co-operation of magnificence and government. So let's see what the government ends up with when it comes to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1030	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1035	Norway is a very good country to live in for most people. Measured from life expectancy, standard of living and level of education, Norway is the world's best country to live in. Most people have an economically safe presence, and oil wealth has given us the opportunity to build a wealth that is unique in a global context. Increased living standards have given people better quality of life. But man has needs that extend beyond the material. Most people have a longing for something more than an increased standard of living. That is also something that the policy must respond to. He must recognise the value of community, time with family and friends, culture, voluntary work and community based on faith. We need a whole human vision. More money and material wealth are not answers to all human needs. Norwegian children are Europe's richest, but are far down in the list of which European children are the happiest. For example, the life-cycle survey by the SSB among people with migrant backgrounds, from 2017, showed that: that Somali immigrants are more satisfied than other immigrants, in spite of the low levels of employment, the worst economic situation and the need for them. In fact, they were happier than the average in Norway. In the world’s richest countries, child protection is increasing and psychiatry cows are growing. In crisis, 180,000 people call Church SOS every year. Alcohol abuse is high, and consumption has increased by 50 pst. only in the last 20 years. Oslo has become the world’s overdose capital of The New York Times, and the assault figure for children’s ladder. For me, this shows that the common values of Norwegian society are under pressure. Something's about to slip on the road to the flooded society. I would like to point out one area in which political action has led to very good results. When the smoking law was introduced – under Dagfinn Højbrätten – one of the three smoking daily. Today the number is 11 pst. When the smoking law was introduced, the number of young people between the ages of 16 and 24 who smoked daily was 22 p.m. Today the number is 4 pst. The last number points to a smoke-free generation. I think we need more "smokers" or political solutions that really solve the challenges we face in our abundant society – solutions that ensure that child abuse is detected and the number reduced, solutions for young people who are struggling with mental challenges, solutions to how we target our poverty effort both at home and abroad, solutions for how we help those students who do not get their potential out of Norwegian school. I could name many – and use this debate to point to the solutions of the Christian People's Party for our society. But before I do, I want to point out some of the things that the Christian People's Party has been helping to ensure for the very last year, which has led Norway in the right direction: a learning standard that provides multiple learning resources for each individual student. This will make the Norwegian school even better, and not least for students who need it the most. This is what teachers themselves, parents and elephants have said is the most important thing for the Norwegian school now. improved care arrangements. Some sick children need continuous care, and the Christian People's Party believes it's good that parents can have the opportunity to provide care for the children themselves, if they want it. The care allowance replaces the income lost by parents when they have to go into a position to take care of their children. increase the pension to the same minimum pension list. That's what the Christian People's Party has done because we know that those who need it the most are just that group of pensioners. Christian People's Party wants a child reform. A warmer society sees the children and the family first. There should be time for each other, whether they are the children in the family, the individual student in the school or care for the elderly and those who need it the most – time for the most important. The Christian People's Party will propose a child reform. If we complete it, it will provide a better everyday life for the families of children. We will strengthen child-responsiveness, and the parental pension scheme will both strengthen and make fairer. It's not fair that some people get over half a million and some get 63,140 dollars. More child-responsiveness for everyone will give rise to child poverty. This is the most important structural measure to do something about child poverty in our own country. The last point in our child reform to provide a better everyday life for families with children is to provide free kindergarten for third children and up. Very many well to leave it with two children. Such a bonus will be mostly for families with low or common incomes that do not benefit from free core time today, and will be positive for the integration and birth rate. A warmer society should have room for everyone and need everyone – an inclusive society where everyone can contribute and use their abilities, regardless of who we are, and how we can contribute to the community. The Christian People's Party has been working on an equilateral reform. It is a struggle for human dignity and against the sorting society in practice. We want the system of user-controlled personal assistants to be strengthened, and it needs to be given a national standard. We want all municipalities to introduce a coordinator's guarantee, so that all families with disabled children get their rights fulfilled, and get it to help them. We want a better care scheme for parents with sick children – change from a time account to a benefit that lasts as long as the family needs it. We will have stronger and better measures for inclusive working life, with several action places for people with disabilities. We want to ensure reintroduction companies and say no to postponing competition. We will simplify aid schemes and documentation requirements. Now it has to be over that the family has to confirm every year that the child has Down syndrome. A warmer society that humans run the system. A warmer society includes people from the beginning of life to the end of life. Last fall we could all follow many siblings in the series ‘Sibling’ on TV 2. It shows us that a diverse society makes us richer, and that it is by showing vulnerability and by caring for us that we have the potential to create a more real, warmer, and brighter society. We met Elina and Pablo's brother in a wheelchair. Elina is asked, how is it to have a brother sitting in a wheelchair? Then the brother quickly broke in and said, "If they're wondering what it's like to have a lingerie sister that can walk, it can be quite fun – and a little annoying. This shows what values we need in our society. The Christian People's Party will have a value anchor Norway. That's why we call about what really matters to society: our common values and our values, our Christian roots. Our exposure should not stop at our borders. We see emerging global challenges. Then we can't be ourselves enough. Populism waves wash over us from both the left and the right. Human rights are being challenged in a country once believed to be stable democracy. The answer no longer seems to be common solutions to common problems, but each has to take care of itself. When self-interest becomes the governing force for all nations, everyone loses. And those that lose the most – are the ones that need it the most. Norway's voice must be on the poor's side and on the climate's side. If this voice should be trustworthy, Norway must also contribute itself. That means that we have to take our share of the responsibility for achieving the 1.5 degree target through an offensive climate policy. It requires political leadership. I ended my article in the debate on the government statement in winter with the following words – and I would like to repeat them now: Social engagement has gone like a yellow thread through the history of the Christian People's Party. Let it be no doubt: Christian-democratic ideology is radical. That is why much of the Christian People's Party's policy is also radical. He is radical in the fight against climate change, radical in the fight to smooth out differences, radical in the fight against global poverty, radical in solidarity with people on the run.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1089	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1094	I would like to thank you for an article that places the situation of families with children on the agenda, both those who are struggling financially, who are unable to provide their children with material security and who cannot give them access to leisure activities that are inclusive, and also the clutter of time that many people experience. My question a little bit in the lengthening of it is about something we haven't done in Norway in recent years. In the 1980s, we saw that birth rates were falling, and then we were able to increase the numbers through school leave, longer maternity leave, and kindergartens. We were also quite familiar internationally, and we were about to reach an average of two children per family. However, since the financial crisis in 2008, the birth rate in Norway has fallen steadily, and now we are at 1986 levels. I don't think Hareide or I have answers to what we're going to do today, but does the representative have any thoughts about what we can do to increase birth rates in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1101	The representative Huitfeldt and I were both in Japan just a short time ago. The birth rate is even lower, and it actually shows that Japan is not a viable society. The same challenge has our country. Now we have a birth rate of 1.62. Then we have a challenge that should worry this whole hall, and we have to do something about it. So I don't think all this is about money. I'm even a baby's dad, and I don't know that it's the economics that's most demanding in the situation I'm in. I think that's right for a lot of families with children. It's about time. I think we have to look at arrangements, and I think that, among other things. is about the one-time payroll, is an open system today, because very many people are waiting to be parents quite late. A student today loses considerable amounts of money to become a parent compared to becoming a parent when one is at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1111	It seems that there are quite few and perhaps not so strict lines on the representative Hareide today, and that is good. I'm not going to ask you about the way forward, but I'm going to ask you a specific question. The Central Party has a large community with the Christian People's Party, both in matters of value and in matters of district policy and media policy. It is one thing that can come in the harvest, which concerns both districts and the media. This is the question of reducing the postal distribution to two and a half days a week. It could mean half a billion dollars in increased costs for the media industry. It concerns approx. 585 000 newspapers delivered weekly and have a significant impact on local newspapers, regional newspapers and meaningful media. The paradox is that at the same time, we are invited by the government to enter into a media settlement to help the media industry through a very difficult transition. My question is simply whether the Christian People's Party sees that there is an unfortunate perspective here that we should jointly try to correct, and make sure that there is no such downscaling of the Post.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1120	I shall be so honest and say that I have not ordered the most demanding lines today. The reason I haven't taken any lines myself is that I haven't come to, but I'm not going to say that I'm not paying any attention right now. [[Laughter]] To the question that the representative Arnstad is asking quite correctly, I can say that this is a hearing draft sent by the Ministry of Transport. The Christian People's Party took part in a change associated with the Post when we went from six days to five days' payback. Then we were concerned that not least the newspapers that are in District Norway, it was important that we secure. We will then secure a solution that will give one the day, our country, and the nations on Saturday, but let go of the bills on Saturday. That we thought was a pretty good solution, and I think there's also a perspective that we need to take with us if we're going to look at further changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1127	The representative Hareide said very wisely about the child's growing-up conditions in his post. Both the SV and the Christian People's Party are parties that – for many years, really – have put children and young people first, that all children should have a safe upbringing with good opportunities, no matter what background they may have, because it provides a warm society. The representative Hareide mentioned a child reform in his speech — increasing child welfare, strengthening parental care and having free kindergarten for more children. There are policies for which SV also wants to have a majority. That is why I would like to ask Mr Hareide if he can tell us more about, for example: what kind of model for increased child-responsive Christian People's Party will go in for. Will the Christian People's Party continue to be a universal system for all who contribute to the cost of having children? And what will the Christian People's Party do with the parents? Is it relevant, as proposed by SV, to introduce a minimum benefit for all families of parental killers, regardless of previous income?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1134	We're going to put forward exactly what's in our child reform, but I can say that yes, we want universal child welfare. I think that precisely the fact that we have arrangements in our society that everyone is contributing to, and that everyone is able to draw out those kinds of statements, is part of giving a legitimacy that is important in our society. And we know that increasing child welfare is the most important structural measure to do something about child poverty in our own country. I thought we should listen to Kåre Willoch, who has spoken for it in strong and good order, and I agree with the appeal from Kåre Willoch: We should increase child welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1139	That's nice to hear. The representative Hareide was also in the midst of them – let's say – the non-material values and challenges that many families face, and just time for the family is perhaps one of the challenges that many parents know most about in their everyday lives. This is why, among other things: important to take care of Sunday as a day off, a day when you can spend time with those you are happy about. That is why SV has also tried to get a debate about taking out some of the increased wealth that our society creates, in increased leisure time for families with children, for parents with young children – a kind of six-hour day for the young children’s parents, you might call it. What does the representative Hareide think about turning the increased working capacity of our society into increased leisure time for the families, and what else can we do to combat the age squeeze for the young children's parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1146	I'm busy just giving family more time. Then it is important for me to say that I believe in freedom of choice and flexibility is important. It's also how children are different, and that families are different, and I think it would be good with different solutions to that. So I want to be careful to say that there is one solution that is suitable for all family members, and one solution that is not suitable for all family members. I think there should be different solutions. Giving flexibility for it is the thinking behind family policy to the Christian People's Party. It's just to have respect for the fact that families are well different, but to allow for more time together. With the birth figures that we now see, I think there should be something a collection of big things looking at. Christian People's Party is known for being a family party that has focused on family politics. I hope we get competition from all the parties on Stortinget about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1153	The Christian People's Party, like the Left, has put its considerable mark on the state budgets in the last five years. On the website of the Christian People's Party, I have today found 40 Christian People's Party breakthroughs in 2017-2018. I think it was the representative Hareide himself who presented this less than four months ago. It's a good breakthrough, and for the past five years, the Christian People's Party has given great show-offs. I know that all these breakthroughs have meant something to people out there and to the Christian People's Party's elected trustees. KrFs all over the country have been proud because of the considerable penetrations of the Christian People's Party and Hareide here on the Stortinget – very proud. We the centermates – the Christian People's Party and the Left – together have actually meant something to people out there. The question to the representative Hareide is: will he use a minute, and perhaps the occasion later in the hiking hall, to reflect on what the Christian People's Party's main wins have been in the course of five years' budgetary cooperation on the civil side?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1160	I agree entirely with the representative Raja says here. Me – the Christian People’s Party and the Left – has had great political impact over the course of these five years. We have seen our significant impact on political Norway. I mentioned in my own post only matters in the last year that have been important to us. Once we have an improved care allowance system, it helps families who really need it, families who feel that their child is getting sick. They want to do the best for their child, and then we have to contribute to it. I'm thinking about a teacher's norm that helps the most vulnerable students in school, and I'm also talking more about the retirement list that already has at least one. I could have continued that list. We've got a lot of good results, but that doesn't mean we're from our position in Stortinget are necessarily able to steer the direction in all areas. That's the debate that's about to take place in the Christian People's Party – the direction we want to take – and I'm glad that the others have said here, that they respect that there is a debate based on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1167	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1172	Taking up the pulpit after Hareide may not feel like jumping after Wirkola a little bit like coming on stage after Elvis Presley. I'll come back to Elvis Presley in my post, I promise. The government's overall goal is to create a sustainable welfare society, read the king to us yesterday. It requires courageous politicians – more courageous than we have in the government today. But fortunately, there is sustainability policy, and it works. Here in the capital, where the Greens are in charge, the Oslo air is cleaner than in ten years. In one year, from 2015 to 2016, greenhouse gas emissions in Oslo decreased by 8 pst. It is mainly due to the decline in car traffic, the increasing number of people walking, cycling and travelling collectively, and a record increase in the use of electric cars. The City Council, with the Greens, has provided 4 000 new departures with public transport for a week, to the joy of large and small, poor and rich. We have made the roads safer for the children and the cyclists, and we have made Marka and Oslofjord cleaner and more accessible. It is not nice that the policies of the Greens have broad support in the people of Oslo. Seven out of ten in Oslo believe that achieving climate goals will make the city better to live in. Oslo people, who are otherwise the majority of the population, want to be able to participate in combating climate change and contaminated urban air. They want the children to be able to play out, even in winter, because the air is clean enough. The majority want fewer cars in the center, because it allows for walking and cycling, for playgrounds, benches and culture. Green policy works, so when the Minister of Finance warns that fighting against the City Council in the capital will be an important matter for her and the Progress Party for the coming year, my message is: We are taking that fight, and we are taking it on behalf of both people and the environment, because a city that is good for children is good for everyone – also for the environment. A society that labors on the environment is also tiresome to many. In concrete terms, children and young people living in places with high air pollution are at greater risk of developing sleep problems or psychiatric diagnosis. It shows Swedish research. And the health of children and young people in Norway gives cause for concern. This autumn, two reports confirm this, please refer only to: The Young Data Survey of 250,000 children reveals that depression and anxiety symptoms are the most common and increasing plagues among young people. In the Shot analysis, which asks more than 50,000 students, one in five answers that they have intentionally hurt themselves. 2,000 of those asked have tried to take their own lives. VG also writes this week that children’s psychiatrists are now warning that children down to preschool age are becoming ill with stress and school pressure. We elected people have to ask ourselves if we've got a society that hurts a lot of kids and young people. They are in a cross-press shot-salve — school pressure, body pressure, expectation pressure, purchasing pressure — and they should always be able to do more, faster and better. In addition, the quantity of glossy images has grown in recent years, and they are to be compared. Last week I visited four different youth organisations to ask why more and more young people have mental problems, and what we can do about it. Everyone thinks that we politicians can do a lot, even if not everything is in our power. First of all, we have to make school an arena that promotes health, they say – with less character pressure, better schooling and a sex education that actually addresses and answers the questions the youth is asking. Secondly, we must intensify the protection of children by the marketing law. Here in Oslo, the City Council has chosen to make all the areas around the schools of the city free of advertising, and that is something the Greens will work for all over the country. The last is to ensure a real mental health service for young people. Many young people don't get the help they need today. It also applies to children and young people at risk of violence. This autumn, the Stortinget will consider a proposal from the Green Party and the Workers' Party to clarify and legislate the local authorities' obligation to provide such vulnerable children with the necessary mental health care and to increase support for possible offers and actions in the municipalities. I hope for broad political support for this in Stortinget. In addition, there are high expectations for the escalation plan for mental health. For many, the high pressure continues in adulthood, especially on those of us who have a job that is physically heavy, or where one really always gets short. This autumn, I will try to bring together the bulk of the population on a new reform of working time in cooperation with the social partners, where we are gradually reducing working time in Norway for more than 10-20 years. That's how we can include more people in the world of work. Then less will depend on social benefits, which they really don't want. At a time when automation causes many Norwegians to worry about losing their jobs, we should also be able to find out if shorter working hours can mean that more people can share the jobs. We believe that such a reform must also include extending the statutory right to part-time work and strengthening the right to permanent employment, including for temporary agency employees. I noticed that the Right we believe in the Greens want to go back to the 1980s. And then maybe a few coffees in the wretch now, because research shows that we had reached the level where higher pay gave us more quality of life, already in the 1960s, when Elvis Presley, Sinatra and Beatles were on the radio – and not least Wenche Myhre with the hit «Let me be young». Today, 44 pst says. of the population of Norway that they want shorter working hours instead of higher wages. They don't want to return in time, they want more time – more time for what's important in life. The LO also now says collectively that there is a need for a future reduction in working time. The recent proposal by the Workers' Party for an additional holiday week for families with children reopens the debate on shorter working hours. This is also a matter that I believe the Party of Values and the Party of the Christian People's Party can support, it is about quality of life in front of material values. As the king was inside the throne, there are many Northmen who are now also concerned about climate change. In April, one in three Nordics said that the climate was one of the three challenges they are most concerned about – it was before the drought. People have seen forest fires and crops that have failed. Farmers all over the country have had to slaughter animals because the government was too poorly prepared for the extreme weather that climate change leads to. The farmer and local politician Henning Bergersen in Hallingdal just managed to save their animals through the collection action on Facebook There are no limits to creativity you should expect from the farmers by day. So far, we're lucky to be able to import grain and food when our crops fail. But climate change makes food production worldwide more vulnerable, while the world’s population is growing. This year, with serious food crises, Norway is not the only country that wants to import cereals. This is also agreed and pointed out by the Defence Research Institute. Climate change means a more hungry world, a world with more refugees and more conflicts. At home too, poor environmental policies will go beyond family and children in the long term – both food access and basic infrastructure. That's why we need to replace today's government with the greenest government of all time. Today the government allows the toxic substance hydrogen peroxide to be dumped in the sea and in fjords, the second part of our food dish in addition to the earth. Government should not only face sustainable use of the sea internationally, but also here at home. The Greens have therefore today tabled a proposal to prohibit the unregulated dumping of lice, chemicals and medicinal products from marine and fjord farming facilities. Politics works, and this government's policy is directed against food shortages, despite claiming that both new and green jobs and meeting Norway's climate obligations are among the main priorities. Climate cut cannot be achieved by putting palm oil on the tank, which is the main reason why greenhouse gas emissions have fallen slightly in the last year. Norway is today an exporter of greenhouse gases – we are a polluter. We make money to steer the world towards a more dangerous and unfair future because of our oil exports, and it makes us vulnerable. A new international report on the world economy in the light of climate change shows that the development of renewable energy is much faster than even the world’s leading analysts have expected. Between 2009 and 2017, the price of solar power fell by 86 pst. Former CEO of the World Bank and Chairman of the New Climate Economy, Nicholas Stern, says to the NRK that heavy investments in oil for Norway no longer make any sense. But if we first have an oil industry, it should also contribute to emissions reduction, and that is good with the development of sea wind. So the Greens and the SV have today made a proposal to set up a CO 2 fund for the oil industry to promote environmentally friendly technology. Doing the best for the environment is doing the best for people as well. This applies in general and in small terms, to a society that is good for children, is also a society that is good for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1219	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1225	More and more jobs in Norway are being done by firms that do not have their own employees and are based on the hiring of labour. Renting is a motor for social dumping. It challenges the Norwegian labour market model and people's security. It builds up the community, trust and productivity of the labour force, and it re-establishes the labour society. Before the summer, the opposition was given a majority for an important decision to meet these developments. Only one of many measures is needed. Then I wonder: does the Greens see the Greens' need for a clean-up action in the labour market, and will they be involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1232	We see major challenges in the future in the labour market. One of them is that a working life you have experienced as predictable for quite many years has become more unpredictable for many. As I mentioned in my speech earlier, we believe that a reform of working time – which we hope can solve many challenges at the same time – should both legitimise the right to part-time work and strengthen the right to permanent employment also for those employed by temporary employment agencies. Part of that picture is that you want more flexibility for businesses. I think that businesses need the most, are workers who are safe and loyal. There is some strength in Norwegian working life. Yes, I am absolutely ready to participate in the dialogue on how to improve Norwegian working life, make it even safer and give more room for development for the individual. Then we have to talk more about what that means.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1239	That's good tones. But I also want to draw attention to pensions, because today there are great injustices in the pension system. Today's occupational pension only provides pensions for income over the basic amount of the social security. Those who fall outside are those who are most closely related to the labour market. It's young people, they're in small jobs, and they're the ones who earn the worst. It's simply unfair. We have now made proposals in Stortinget regarding the pension from the first penny. Then I wonder what the Greens think about that issue, and whether they want to be involved in closing the gap in the pension system and make it a little bit fairer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1248	Now I'm in the finance committee, so I get the pleasure of working quite closely on the proposal and the hearing that has been on the proposal. I want to take a closer look at it before I make a complete statement about what we think about all the details of it. When it comes to retirement, I see that it's unfair, also because there's an inequality in who earns rights over many years, and there's also a gender inequality there. Where else we've been good at thinking about equality, we haven't made it clear about the full-time right. Retirement is just one part of this. There are many benefits you do not receive when you work involuntary part-time. There are women's dominated professions high on statistics, and we have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1255	We note that the Greens have great ambitions for how Norway will become greener. This should include: be made by means of a large transport lift for the runway and collective and electrification of the entire ship's fleet. This will, of course, require large public investment. At the same time, they are still making proposals that weaken our income side, which will definitely weaken our ability to carry out the Storting's climate ambitions. Nevertheless, in connection with this, we would like to have clarity in a relationship that is clear in their applications, where they turn the thumb down for the free E39. Why do they see a contradiction in the free E39 and fossil-free E39, when we've decided only to sell zero-emission cars in 2025 and go towards electrification of our entire fleet? Or is it that the Greens do not want good mobility in the West, which ensures us sustainable development?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1262	Ferry-free E39 is all about ensuring a transport of goods that comes forward faster. It has been read out and adopted and a huge challenge for Stortinget already to spend money on larger, wider roads at higher speeds, rather than bet on what we have actually agreed in Stortinget, namely getting more of the goods transported by sea and by trains. Today the train loses shares because you pay on those motorways. Then there is no train in the West – so much I have traveled around – but the West has a very good potential for getting the long transport on board the ship. I also believe that we need the big debate on how we spend the money. This is a crazy expensive project, and that money could have been used differently, both to create safer roads for those who are going to run on them, and to have rolled out a better grid of drawers for all those who live here who need it in order to travel environmentally friendly – and all the other good things that the representative started with, which you need to get... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1269	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1274	Une Bastholm spent a lot of time on Oslo, but what about national policy? The distinction between green and grey is more important than the distinction between red and blue, it is stated in the text that will describe the Party of the Greens. The left is in the negotiating position and makes Norway greener every day. The Greens do not do it at all on the Storting. It now sounds as if the Greens have opted for it anyway. They will participate in any discussions between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party. My question is: is the Environment Party really the Green Party and the representative of Une Bastholm the solution of these parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1279	I hope that this is not how I don't get involved and contribute to a greener society by being 1 in 169 representatives on the Stortinget. On the contrary – and therefore I would like to spend very little time answering it as well – I think that we have, through the last period of the Great Britain by being the tip of the green-grey axis, helped to shift the great masses of political debate into climate. It's a very important way to contribute to a small party. So, of course, I'm also waiting for us to get even bigger and get more influence. When it comes to government cooperation, today's fact is that we have a government that doesn't take on the challenges that we've chosen on the Storting to do the most in the world. It's about climate, and it's also about global poverty, which Hareide very closely linked in his speech. The two things are very close together, unfortunately. This is not an ideological revolution on the part of the Greens, it is about what is the political reality in Norway right now. And that's where the Right has married the Advance Party. The left has chosen to join that coalition, and for us, it's out of date.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1286	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1291	I want to start by welcoming the government after, because they're now saying that they're working on reducing the differences. Last year the government would prevent the differences from increasing, so it goes forward, at least in the celebrations. Difference Norway worries a lot, and it's not weird, because big differences are fundamentally unfair. It is unfair when natural resources that should belong to the many are used to build fortunes of the few. It is unfair that the big hotel kings are getting richer, while the employees of the hotels that create the values are not getting a penny in local pay supplements. It is unfair that the director can count on better health care treatment than the assistant. The 400 richest people at the top now control greater values than the entire state budget. It's a big problem, and it's not just about justice, it's also about democracy. For what is our ballot if someone can buy to get the last word, if they can sponsor parties and think tanks and use PR agencies to make sure that it goes the same way no matter who wins the next election, not to talk about the direct power that ownership gives. Our ballot is all too often short in the face of the power and influence they have at the top through their wealth. That is a democratic problem. Even the mariners realized that when power and wealth are inherited, it threatens a free society. Therefore, they would have a number of bans on counties and barons to avoid the emergence of a new hereditary rich manhood. This was radical, it was foresight, and it's part of the legacy of Eidsvoll that we marked with the solemn opening of the Storting yesterday. But changing governments have chosen to forget this legacy. It's made it easier to build big family fortunes and get away with it. The Eidsvollsmen imposed a ban on new barons. Nevertheless, we still hear about salmon barons, kindergarten barons and hotel kings. It builds up in these days fortunes that form family dynasties if we don't grab hold. Few have provided more for a new Reichsmanhood than Erna Solberg and her government. The removal of the inheritance tax, the reduction of property taxes and the release of commercial goods in increasingly new areas are not only unfair policies that increase differences, but also a violation of the spirit of the Constitution. The debate on Difference Norway creates strife because it is unfair, but also because powerful forces are being challenged. It addresses issues on which the rich uncles of the Right Party and the Advance Party do not want to debate, and that may be why the right side repeatedly tries to derail and explain away. First, they try to point out the unemployed and claim: ‘The main difference in Norway is between those in employment and those out of work.’ Do they mean that unemployment is the reason why the differences have only increased and increased altogether since the 1980s? The difference between having a job and not, of course, is absolutely crucial, especially for those who do not. And there should have been much more done by the sitting government to help them. We've had growing differences for 30 years now, in a period where there's been both high and low unemployment. So the government's claim is not entirely in touch. When they're done talking about unemployment, they often start blaming immigrants. Of course, immigration plays a role in terms of differences. Good integration requires good efforts, and it costs. But no one can seriously believe that it is the fault of immigration that the super rich increased their wealth by 14 pst. last year. This smells a little bit of diversion, you ask me. Finally, they apologize for the fact that the welfare state, after all, evenensures a little more than what appears in the figures. And that's true, but there's no excuse to increase the differences. All of this they do to avoid talking about the real problem, that over time it pays more to own than to work. The good news is that this is not due to forces of nature. We can better value heritage and wealth, we can stop temporary employment agencies and rents that make workers powerless and pressure people to accept wages and conditions they prefer to get away from, we can facilitate increased professional organisation, and we can also regulate labour immigration so that employers can not use the labour force of Eastern Europe to reduce wages. All of this, the Storting can do. Then we have to be honest about what the problems are, and end with excuses and derailments. This year it is 15 years since the previous power investigation was presented. Now we need a new one. It can provide the basis for a necessary debate on power, openness and democracy in today's Norway. Øyvind Østerud, who was the head of the previous power investigation, agrees with us that it may be a very good idea to look more thoroughly at working life given the debates on social dumping, foreign workers and increased use of recruitment agencies as we see today. Our proposal is to look at this in a new power investigation. We have heard that the previous investigation started with a proposed throne from Røres Jan Petersen. We are promoting a similar proposal today on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and Red and hope that there will be a majority or even unanimity in the Chamber for this good proposal. The mariners were not very clear-sighted when it came to the distribution of power and wealth between the sexes. They never entered any prohibition in the Constitution on giving women lower wages than men, nor for work of equal value. This year it's been ten years since the Equal Pay Commission presented its proposals, but still women earn only $87 for every hundredfold of men earns. There is a systematic downgrading of the job done in women-dominated professions, a kind of value discrimination that makes many women less free and more dependent on the man's income and well-being. This injustice has to end, it's time for equal pay, and we're already overtime. Therefore, the following proposals are proposed by the Red: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case to raise the level of pay in the women’s dominated professions in the public sector and to assess an equal pay pot for them, which will be added to the regular wage bill and distributed after negotiations between the parties.’ Right now, Norwegian politics can look a little bit like a kind of a potion of To dance on TV 2, although Carl I. Hagen isn't with this time. Who gets to keep going, and who's going out, is completely uncertain. But one thing is certain: Red will continue to work for political permeability, for profit-free well-being, for a powerful trade movement, for a fair environmental policy, for local hospitals and local democracy, for transparency, peace and self-determination. Many may have underestimated what Red could do with the Advance Party and the Right in government. We will still be a challenger who can surprise, whether the Prime Minister comes from the Right or from the Labour Party. With this I take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1332	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1339	As the representative of Moxnes has in the main focus of his speech, there are growing differences between people with today's blue government. A report from the Norwegian Disability Association shows that the extra costs of many people with disabilities make everyday life a struggle to get the economy around. One thing that can mean little in dollars and ears, but a lot for those involved, is the car welfare system for the disabled. My question to the Moxnes is two-fold: is this a matter the representative sees it possible to gather a broad majority on the Stortinget from the centre and the left, or is there any other matter that we can reassemble in opposition to the government in a common case and increase differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1344	I believe that a majority of the Storting wants to balance the differences and that it is unfair that the tax cuts go to the richest, while the bill is sent, among other things. to people who are struggling, to the unemployed who lose their holiday money, and to the disabled who lose their child allowance, and also to the people who need care and welfare schemes of the state experience that they are being punished and cut off in their schemes. I have noticed the speech that Hareide gave, and that suggests that many, including in the Christian People's Party, want a society with greater opportunities for the majority and also a more fair society. It's quite possible, I think, if that line and that view win through, we can get a majority that goes away from the policy of the blue government, which increases the difference and punishes those who need the community the most. Then, in my view, we should also get a fairer tax policy, and then it's a bit to go, also with the Workers' Party. But there's probably hope there too.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1351	I want to start by taking off my hat because the Bears Moxnes in the last year have managed to drag the former governing party Labour Party to the left in a number of cases, and in many ways determined their course. But we who appreciate being able to distribute the well-being created through a regulated, healthy market economy are little curious about what kind of economic system Red wants to establish as a substitute for the market economy. In the past, the representative of Moxnes has said that he wants to democratize society and bring the economy under the rule of the people. I'm a little surprised at what that means, and I also think the people behind this regime are doing that. So my specific question to the representative of Moxnes is: if a person has a good idea, wants to start a business and make money on it – is it red for that? Or is the representative to remove private ownership of all means of production?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1356	First, we have to wait a little while to spread the champagne corks – as you in the Right often do – in terms of the change in the course of the Workers' Party. Yes, there has been a rhetorical left turn, and yes, that's good, but it remains to be seen whether in practical politics at Stortinget we will get the Workers' Party on sensible proposals of, let's say, the prohibition of profit in welfare. They have voted against it so far. They have spoken in the right direction, but not followed up in practice on Stortinget. So it's still going to look, but we're going to do our job to push them in the right direction. So Red wants to put an end to the fact that the great resources of society, which may affect the future of millions of people, are to be determined by the unbiasedness of private commercial special interests. So yes, we'll let democracy rule more of the economy. We want to make decisions about futures for important industries in Norway jointly rather than letting a few shareholders decide it unanimously. It's expanding the rule of the people. It's going in the right direction for the future, we mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1363	Now I prefer beer to champagne, but I also prefer that we have an economy where people can start their own businesses, follow their ideas and also reap some of the fruits of it if they establish a service that people want. What's interesting about the Red Party is that they often talk about the welfare sector and kindergartens, but what we're really asking about is whether you want a completely different economy, a completely different social model, than what we have today. Then it's just about whether you want to allow private, ordinary people to have ownership of their own properties, but also the means of production, if they're in and create something. I still don't feel that Moxnes has answered the specific question, but he is very welcome to do so now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1368	Private ownership is in the way of the rights of the many to property. The real values of society, those who create the values of businesses, are cut off from enjoying the fruits of their work and their value creation because the owners acquire the profits made by the employees of the enterprises and by those who pay for the goods. So we want those who create the values to be part of the value creation. We want those who live by the work of others to be taxed far more fairly than they do today. We want those who run an enterprise, who work there, to also be able to choose the management of the enterprise democratically from among their peers, and that, at local, regional and national level, we can jointly set goals for the economy and govern it democratically – in common – rather than leave it up to a small special interest that currently has too much power and wealth, in Norway as in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1373	It's actually a very short follow-up question: is it the way to understand that you want to abolish private property rights, and is it the way to understand that Red believes that in a new economic system, it's the state that's going to be able to determine both production and price?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1378	No, it is neither possible nor desirable to abolish all private property rights – it will always exist. But we want society to rule much more of society democratically. It may well happen at the local level, at the individual enterprise, and not just that the state should govern everything, we are not for that. We want to spread power outwards and downwards in society over the concentration of power that the economy for which Tybrung-Gedde and Right is leading leads to. The fact that the 400 richest people in Norway own as much as the state budget is a sign that capitalism creates power concentration in the few, rather than providing power distribution to the many. The system we're in favour of means that we also spread economic power across the country and down the population rather than pooling power among the very few. I think that's also good for getting an efficient economy and not least for getting an economy that's coping with nature and climate tolerance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1383	The economic system representative Mr Björn Moxne's wishes and, as he has also defended from this interlocutory, has been tried out in several countries, and we have quite terrible results based on the policy and the wishes of the Moxne system. But what I'm asking is why the Moxnes representative only wants the so-called welfare profitors alive. What about other private actors that produce goods and services that we are totally dependent on? Is it true that Baker Hansen is a nutritionist because he makes money to sell bread? Is Jøtul going to count as a heat profiter because they're making money to warm up people's houses? So my question to the Moxnes representative is, are there really any private actors that Moxnes and Red think have the right to life? Or do his ideal societies consist only of municipal and state monopolies?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1389	No, it doesn't. Very well-known are very few bakers who are fully financed by tax money, such as for example. schools, care for the elderly and the protection of children. We think it is wrong that the money that people have paid into taxes for good welfare, for the benefit of kindergarten children, for the benefit of children's protection children, is taken out of the services and goes to private enrichment for the country's richest women and men, many of them who sponsor the Advance Party and the Right election struggle and get clumsily and well paid back in terms of their support to the profiters here at Stortinget. I want to close the holes where tax money runs out, even out of the country to tax havens where some of the companies are located, so that each crown is granted to well-being, to kindergarten children, to children's protection and to care for the elderly, goes for the purpose to which they are granted, and not to make any very few people even richer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1394	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1399	Labour market developments are good. After a demanding year, we now see that companies are asking for labour. Unemployment is falling, and employment is increasing. In the last two years, there have been a total of 70,000 more persons employed, and for the first time in 10 years, the employment rate is increasing. The registered unemployment rate is at its lowest level of almost ten years, and it has decreased throughout the country. It's worth it to rejoice over. The outlook for the Norwegian economy suggests that there will be a high demand for labour in the future in most industries around the country. We now have a historic opportunity to also mobilise several of those who are out of work. It is important for individuals and to meet the needs of the labour market for people, but it is also essential for a sustainable welfare society. So we're going to use both the good business cycle and the policy to get more people to work. On the Jeløya platform, the government has taken the initiative of including people into the labour market. It involves cooperation between different actors, public as private, and different sectors. The jobs are in the companies out there. In order to succeed, it is therefore important to have employers and trustees on the team. Work is the most important way out of poverty and to create the life you want to live for yourself and your family. At the same time, we must ensure that those who cannot work, a decent income to live on. An enhanced line of work and expectation of activity in welfare schemes are important instruments to ensure the individual's ability to stand on his own feet and thereby also the sustainability of the welfare state. Several adjustments to the income insurance scheme have been made to facilitate the transition from social benefits to employment. The introduction of an activity obligation for young social assistance recipients was introduced in 2017. Now we see a decline in the number of young people receiving social assistance. This is positive for those who come to work or education, but also for society as a whole. Several changes have been made to the rules on redundancy payments to ensure faster clearance. The government agreed with the social partners on new pension schemes for government employees in our agreement. Now, when we can complete the pension reform, government employees get better pay-offs from longer employment, it becomes easier to compensate for the impact of life expectancy adjustment, and it will be easier to change jobs between the private and public sectors without losing acquired rights. Looseing the pension reform safely in ports has been important for the government and for a broad majority in this room. Most people have a high standard of living and live good lives in Norway, but not all. Too many are outside the labour market and other social arenas that provide community and membership. Some are affected by poverty and exclusion. It increases the risk of major social differences and of integration challenges and challenges the economic and social sustainability of our welfare systems. Reducing poverty and contributing to inclusion and integration are therefore among the challenges raised in the Jeløya Platform. A society with small differences where everyone can participate and have the opportunity to contribute is an important political goal for the government. The main measures to combat poverty and avoid major differences are a school that raises all students, regardless of background, an open working life with room for everyone and a social security network that captures those who need it. We have to assume that we still have a way to go, but several of the initiatives the government has taken and will take will lead us further forward. In Norway, most people have a good working environment. Nine out of ten thrive at work. The proportion of women working full time has increased to 63 pst. in 2017. Fewer work involuntary part-time. However, although the overall picture is good, there are still challenges in some industries and professions. Working life must be safe for everyone. Serious enterprises shall have fair conditions of competition and taxes and duties shall be levied. As a result, the government prioritises the fight against crime at work and unprofessional employment and will intensify the pursuit of those who engage in illegal activity and exploit vulnerable people in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1418	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1423	Government council Hauglie and the government are talking about strengthening the line of work, but in the throne we see little concrete action. I would like to mention three good things that the Workers' Party is concerned about, and that can help make more people come to work. One is that we promoted and received a majority in favour of – against the government’s votes – a proposal that it should be possible to combine daily allowances with study credits, and soon one year later, the government has not yet followed up that case. We proposed that all social welfare beneficiaries should have an activity obligation, but also the right to proper activity, which qualifies for work. The government voted against. In the newspaper, we can read about Morgan Linnerud and his and many uncomplicated fights against the Nav system, where the rules prove to be such that it doesn't pay to work. When the rules do not work well enough, we need to be willing to make changes. Why is the government so reluctant to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1432	Several of the examples mentioned by the representative of the Grande are good examples of proposals where the Workers' Party goes after the government. It was the government that first took the initiative to change the day-to-day pay rules, just to make it easier for those who fell out of work as a result of the oil price drop to take up education while they were unemployed. These were important changes that we made. In addition, we made it easier to combine day money with creating their own business. Here the Workers' Party has come after, and I am so happy about it. The obligation of activity is another example of the government's leading, and the Workers' Party initially voted against, but has now turned around. Of course, I'm happy about that. The government has a number of measures to strengthen the taskbar. Among other things, we change several of our arrangements to make it easier to combine social security with work and to make it easier to work while on social benefits. We have now launched our own inclusion tool where we come up with several measures to strengthen the working line and make it easier for those on the outside to get on the inside of the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1441	The government's so-called virtue is nothing but that you want everyone else to do the job. After all, it's like inviting friends and neighbors to work at home and sitting in the shade and drinking coffee and seeing that everyone else is doing the job. It's not good enough, it's lazy. Since the Council of State is so positive to what the Workers' Party is now considering – when is Stortingen presented with a case to enable the daily allowance to be combined with the study credits? Can the Council confirm that she wants to change Nav's legislation so that people like Morgan don't lose their jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1448	When we launch an inclusion vigilance, it is because we see that there is a great need to implement powerful measures to include many of those on the outside. The inclusion dove is based on three main pillars. One is directed at employers and is about reducing employers’ risks when recruiting people on the outside. The other thing we want to focus more on is the collaboration between the health sector and work, because we see that too many people would just work as an important part of the treatment, maybe it will be a treatment in itself. In addition, we want to strengthen skills. In all these areas, we now come up with measures in the budget. We acknowledge that we have few jobs to offer. Employers do that, and that's exactly why it's so important to have employers on the team, otherwise we won't be able to do it. Now we have a historic opportunity to include more because unemployment is falling year by year, and there is demand for labour in almost all industries throughout the country for the first time in many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1461	It is very nice to hear from the Council of State, but I ask for two very specific things, and the Council of State turns away and refuses to answer. When will the Stortinget – almost a year after the majority decision was taken in the course of the budgetary procedure last year – be presented with a case that would allow the combination of daily allowances with study credits? And will the Council of State change Nav's legislation, so that people like Morgan don't lose their jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1466	In the case of daily allowances and education, the next week's budget will be endorsed. As far as disability is concerned, it is difficult for me to deal with an individual matter as it says in the newspapers now. But the whole purpose of the unpre-reform – which was adopted under the Stoltenberg government, and which was implemented by the Solberg government – was to prevent the injustice seen in the old system, where one could earn one crown too much, and one lost both the disability, the disability and the entire security that one had. One crown too much – and you lost the entire safety net around you. It was a gross injustice, which a total mass of people wanted to correct by getting the underprivileged reform, which just means that you can work more, without losing your social security. You do not have to pay back, and you do not have to reassess your entire disability. I believe that was an important reform. Then we have corrected the unintended consequences of this reform, and we shall continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1475	The majority of the population tightened up the Working Environment Act on 4 June, including the following: the content of permanent employment is defined by law. Employment contracts in employment agencies, which were recommended by the NHO Service and Trade, i.e. fixed-term employment without pay between jobs, became illegal, and the use of temporary agency to replace permanent employees is tightened up by the fact that an agreement with a trade union that has the right to stop employment will now be required. However, there was no majority to empower the Labour Inspectorate to ensure compliance with the Working Environment Act by means of a new section 18-6, but a transmission decision was unanimous. The fight against the crime of working life must mean that public institutions, with the law in hand, can break down crime. My question is: Will the government come to Stortinget with such a change in law, i.e. the Working Environment Act § 18-6, so that the Labour Inspectorate can follow the new law after 1 January 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1481	Yes, it is right, as the representative Lundtigen says, that the Stortinget promoted a number of changes to the Working Environment Act before the summer, and the government should, of course, follow up all the decisions taken by the Stortinget. With regard to the Labour Inspectorate, we also had a problem with some of the issues raised: the fact that the Labour Inspectorate does not today have the authority to supervise in the way that was also taken into account by the Storting or for which a proposal had been made. But now we're going to do an investigation, too, to see how the Labour Inspectorate's authority can be expanded. And then we have to get back to Stortinget when it's ready. But I can assure the representative that all the decisions adopted in Stortinget will of course also follow up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1486	This is surprising. It was a unanimous transmission decision with a precise wording that was sent to the government. The government has decided, after the treatment of the Storting, that the law will be enacted on 1 January 2019. The government is talking about the fight against the crime of working life. This must mean that a person has the necessary public offices to ensure that the law is observed or not. So I repeat my question: Will the government come back to the amendment of the Working Environment Act § 18-6 this fall, so we can make the necessary decisions, so that the Labour Inspectorate gets the tool they need to follow up the changes in the laws that were adopted by a large majority on 4 June this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1491	As I said in my previous answer, we will follow up all the decisions that the Stortinget has made, and that the Stortinget has intended us to follow up. Some of it requires closer investigation. To the extent that the representative Lundtigen believes that the government does not take the fight against work-wreck seriously, I will, of course, strongly contradict it. The government has just launched several powerful measures against labour-related crime, such as the first government. We have our own strategy that we developed together with the parties in 2015. It was revised in 2017, and we are now revising the strategy and coming up with a new one in 2019. We have reinforced the sanctions also in the field of work-wreck. We've improved and changed the information sharing possibilities between the agencies. We are also going to take even more action in the future precisely because we want to bring unprofessional actors to life. They acidify Norwegian working life. That is why we must also step up the fight further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1496	I get a lot of e-mails about Nav and individual things in Nav. I am absolutely sure that the Department and the Council of State will also get. There's a lot of sad reading. It's mostly about people who feel they're being pressed down in the third of Nav – very long processing of applications and refusal of help for power accounting and other vital things. I expect that the Council of State will read a lot of these emails and have noticed that more and more of them have come in recent times. Does the Council of State not believe that a softer hub, where a non-complaint on a refusal to cover all the necessary expenses, will lead to more motivation than depression and to more quality of life than concerns?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1501	I fully agree that it is important that we have a hub that works well, that meets the individual user in a good and respectful way, and that helps as far as it is possible to help. That's also the background for, and some of the purpose of, the Nav message that we presented a couple of years ago. An expert committee had gone through the entire Nav organisation and made a number of suggestions for improvements and changes, which also provided the basis for the big news we provided. It got a lot of support here in Stortinget and got a lot of support and support from the Nav employees. There is a great turnaround towards more trust in the Nav employees, more employment correction of social benefits and the way Nav should work, and more user-oriented and user-friendly services. We saw that Nav might not work as well as you would like, and that Nav employees themselves also wanted to contribute. We now see improvement in Nav, and of course we also have to work on it to improve it even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1506	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1511	Councillor Hauglie said that small differences are a goal. If small differences are a goal, it's strange that we have a right-wing government that in the area by region deliberately increases the differences in Norwegian society with the policies they run. Differences are increasing between cities and countries. The differences are increasing between those who have the most, and those who have the least. Differences are increasing between women and men. Differences are also increasing in the area for which the Hauglie Council is responsible – between them at work and those without a job. In addition, we have a government that systematically does not listen – neither to professionals nor to ordinary people – but that jumps over people's everyday challenges and runs on with blind, ideological right-wing policies. A good example of this is also from Hauglie's State Council's responsibility — when the government jumped over all the trade unions and the needs of ordinary people when they went on with more temporary work and more renting and abolishing our instruments against involuntary part-time. They didn't listen to me either. They went on a general strike, but they continued to claim that this was for the benefit of the workers. They ran on with pure right-wing policies against people's will and against the real needs of working life. We in the Workers' Party are fighting for a working life with room for more people, where more people can get permanent jobs, because that is what creates security and freedom in life, where fewer people have to know about time, where more people can get to the combination of working life and family life in a good way, and where no one has to deal with handicrafts and short-term contracts. Another example of the blind ideological right-wing policy, which is directly harmful, is that our most vulnerable kids, those who need care the most and need to get it from child protection, are going to be able to run stores, make money on, by taking out the profits of community resources, money that would go to better care for the kids. Yes, this is incomprehensible. The working party will ensure that the community's resources benefit the most vulnerable children, that the money goes to more warmth and care, not for profit. That is why we believe that child protection should be operated by public or by ideal forces. A third example is equality. The tongue of the throne did not mention equality with a word. As a matter of fact, the government continues its tough course. The equality is put in reverse under this government. The right-wing government has weakened the gender mainstreaming tools that have made Norway one of the world’s most equalised countries. They cut in the paperwork, but fortunately we got it back in the opposition just a year ago in the vote of the corresponding debate. The government also cuts to them like every day out there where people work and live, out in the municipalities, doing the job of making more people equal, making the job of making more people feel more free in their lives, more respect and more equal. Yes, because it's about increasing equality. When those who do this job, those who work in the equality centres, those who work in the Ombudsman, or the thousands who work through the voluntary organisations, get cut in the budgets, they are told to do less, not more, while we know that the challenges are great. The debate of winter on sexual harassment and metoo is just one example of an obscurity that needs to be combated harder. Women's right to control their own bodies is not real. But what happens? Well, when the Equal Opportunities Ombudsman asked for a hundred million extra dollars in the revised state budget to be able to handle the amount of requests to hold courses around the country, what was the government's response? It was no. So it didn't work out. The working party will move in a different direction. We want to strengthen, not weaken, equality, because increasing equality gives people more freedom and real freedom of choice. The government's results point in the opposite direction. The result of the right-wing policy is greater differences. That someone has to be left behind is less equality, more inequality. The working party believes in something else. We know that the major challenges are best solved in common, and we know that we are stronger together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1526	We have a society that is characterized by trust, openness and small differences, even if you would sometimes believe something else from those who speak from this pulpit. We have a state that has a solid safety net for those who need it and that's going to help everyone get the same opportunities in life. A good growth and a safe environment offer the best opportunities to create their own lives. Family policies are therefore important. For the Right, the family is the most important social community in society. The public shall support the family, but the public shall not govern it. For the SV and the Workers' Party, family policy is an area of intense governance. It was mentioned blind ideology, and I might join in on family management. Yes, because there are no limits to detailing what the state should decide about what is good for the family. Here we might be at some of the cores of the difference between SV and the Workers' Party on one side and the value-conservative thinking and direction on the other. For the Right, there must be a balance between civil society and the State. There must be a limit to state interference. There are limits to politics. Society must be built from below. That is why we are concerned that the family and community should have greater power and influence over their own decisions and their own lives. Because all children and families are different, we want the family to have the care solution that best suits them. Many people are faced with the following choice: Should we choose a good nursery place, or should we actually take advantage of the possibility of being at home a little bit more? The cash support provides more opportunities to make the real choice. We think that the families themselves are the best ones to make decisions about what's good for themselves and theirs. Together with the Christian People's Party, we have therefore strengthened the cash support and made it more flexible, so that it can also be used together with part-time nursery facilities. A good and secure growth requires – apart from a safe base – a good community environment, a good kindergarten, a good school and access to leisure activities. The government, together with the Christian People's Party, has therefore increased its efforts in these areas through ten budgetary settlements. A new framework plan for kindergartens has been adopted, a minimum standard for childcare staff is in place, quality has been strengthened in kindergartens, specialist teachers have been introduced in school and, in particular, a standard for teachers has been introduced, grant schemes for recreational activities have been introduced and more money has been allocated to local sports and associations. The non-profit and voluntary sector has improved the framework conditions and the voluntary declaration between the KS, the government and non-governmental organisations working with children and young people was signed in 2016. In the census, children in low-income families were shown separately. It is a particular challenge with low-income families and children who need to be seen and heard. Kindergarten and school are the key areas for combating social inequality and exclusion, and measures such as free core time in kindergarten and school leisure are introduced in many municipalities, including in my home municipality, Drammen, which was early out. The aim is for all municipalities to put this into practice. Thus, municipalities have received grants to counteract differences. Seven hundred and seventy million. kr is set for this this year. This is a formidable increase from when we took over in 2013. Many municipalities have now introduced the free lending system for equipment. We want all municipalities to have that. Regardless of the parent’s finances, children shall be able to participate in activities. It is good for the government to provide a big message on how we can reduce differences. It is important to have a policy that supports the freedom of choice of families. If you want the child to go to a montessori school, in a community nursery, or actually not participate in organized sports or other activity, it's fine. We don't want the state's or the left-hand side's override.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1541	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1546	For the Workers' Party, it has always been a goal that everyone living in our country should have equal opportunities, including our older people. We know today that not all of our older people have equal opportunities, especially when you think about retirement. Therefore, the pension from the first crown is one of the most important matters for the Workers' Party. Retirement is also a matter of equality, because we know that many of those who lose out on the current pension system are women who have worked temporarily, who have worked part-time, and who do not benefit from today's pension system. Our proposal will lead to more than one million Norwegians getting better advice. Then my question is, why is the Right against getting a better pension for that group of one million Norwegians?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1551	Thank you for the question. The right and government are concerned that everyone should have a good pension, and a pension you can live on. Then we have a pension settlement, and that's what we're running after. In the case of women, at least I can tell the representative that more women than ever are now in full-time positions. That means we're on the right track in terms of women's policies, as another representative brought up here today. We're concerned that everyone should have work, and that everyone should earn their own pension. Pension settlements are determined in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1557	I believe that if the policy is bad, you have to change it, and we see that it affects over a million people in the North, especially those who may have worn out through the world of work. Women who have had to stay home instead of having a career are those who are the real losers in today's pension system. I believe that as politicians we are here to make people's everyday lives better, not defend the system, as it has been after five years with the Right in government. The social partners have given the government responsibility to look at the proposal. Then I wonder, is the government going to do it, or are you not going to do anything – that you've done in the last five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1562	With regard to pensions and pension settlements, it is also about how we distribute our benefits and how everyone should participate in the welfare goods in Norway. It also means that we need to focus on how values are created in Norway. There's not much talk about how values are created, but there's a lot of talk about how values are distributed. This is about a policy where we want to distribute the funds the government has at its disposal, in the most correct and fair possible way, and then we have made a settlement that we believe is currently in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1567	The representative said that society should be built from below, but the Right now implements a regional reform that the population does not want. An analysis shows that the new regions will create more difficult conditions for social security, crisis management and preparedness. The Viken Giant County, in which Ørmen Johnsen will eventually live, violates the principle of coordination that came after July 22. The merger decision is taken across the structures of the State, the police, the civil defence, the Home Guard, the NVE and the State Road Administration, among others. For example, Viken will include three different police districts. It creates difficulties when resources are to cooperate and find each other. My question is then: how can Ørmen Johnsen defend a regional reform that can weaken social security in large parts of the East, including in her own state, Buskerud?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1572	Firstly, I must say that I am very disappointed with the inaction of both the Workers' Party, the SVs and the Centre's parties in the area of regional reform. If the counties are going to get more jobs today and do them, they have to be bigger and more functional. That is why the government has launched a regional reform. Yes, there are some regions that are more challenging than others. I believe that the Viking, as it is today, will be a good region both in terms of work and not least in terms of transport. All the problems that are coming, we're going to have to discuss gradually, but the point of making larger regions is also to make it easier for the population and get tasks close to where people live. It's the decentralization of power from the state and out to the population, and I think it's a shame you don't want to be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1579	If there is something the representative has done in his post, as I also see several representatives from the right-hand side do, it is to settle down so deeply on the chest with regard to the government's proposals and efforts against child poverty. Now it's one year since the last throne debate, and during that year we've rounded 100,000 children growing up in poor families. At the same time, during this blue-blue reign, we've got over 108 billionaires in the country. This is one of the worst consequences in terms of the increasing differences in power and wealth of the unsocial distribution policy of the government, with cutbacks in the uneducated child allowances, with cuts in the transitional benefit for lone dependants — just to mention something. What I want to ask the representative is: can you really be satisfied with the effort to combat child poverty when we have had over 100,000 poor children in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1586	Of course, we should work hard to balance income differences in Norway. But yes, I think we can actually be proud of what we've done. I have to remind the representative that when you were in government, the child's pension did not increase by one penny, and the subsidy to the municipalities has actually increased dramatically during this government. We have taken a number of measures to prevent child poverty and not least to enable children to participate in leisure activities. It is part of the Right Municipalities that lead by example, using the funds they receive from the government for equalizing measures, for free core time in the SFO, free kindergarten. That's how we've done a lot, but we're going to do more, and I remember there's going to be a big message that will also lift this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1591	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1596	It's almost five years since Norway got a new government. Since then, we have been reforming an entire sector. We have done that at the same time as it has been full speed in the development and maintenance of the infrastructure. The potential for conversion and the will of thousands of members in the sector have been fantastic and far surpasses the will for conversion we have seen in parts of the opposition. When we established Nye Weier, it was for protests from the left. Now they build the road faster and cheaper than many had dreamed about, and the Labour Party spokesmen are waiting to get their road projects into the company. When the cooperation party carried out the rail reform in order to achieve a more efficient rail system, the opposition also protested. Now the number of train takers grows year by year. There were 10 million more travelling by train in 2017 than in 2013. New companies are ready and will compete to provide passengers with a better train service. However, in Central Party countries scepticism is still great in using private companies, although experience shows that more competition provides more rail for the money. Even when we carry out a toll reform to save the cars from unnecessary tolls, we encounter opposition from the opposition. But now we're about to have the last deal in place, and we're going from between 50 and 60 bombers to 5. As part of the reform, we also spend half a billion dollars a year reducing the cost of the caristics. The car charges are almost 2 billion. kr lower than when the Progress Party came into government, including the tolls. It wouldn't have been like that without us. Our government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, has presented the most ambitious national transport plan of the time. Not only are we going to build more, but we're going to maintain better. And we're going to apply new technology, for future banks on the door. That's why we have to deregulate, pilot and modernise the way we think about transport. The climate challenge requires more than festivities; it requires results. Consequently, the transport sector shall provide emissions reductions. In 2017, emissions from car traffic went down by almost 10 pst. compared to the previous year. In September this year, nearly half of the cars sold in Norway were an electric car. The work of a climate-smart transport continues, while this government, unlike parts of the opposition, has respect for the fact that many people need the car to get their everyday lives up. We're far from done. New reforms are at stake. More than one route should be extended. Since 2002, T-Bana has been autonomous in Copenhagen. Under this government there is now a pilot project with autonomous buses in Norway. The picture companies pop up, people change travel habits, and they travel more. In the meantime, there will be more and more time between the arrival of taxi drivers in cities. That's why we need to change the taxi industry. It's the government going on. The digitized age is here. Norway is on the verge of providing and using mobile, broadband and the Internet. Our market-based broadband policy has proved successful. 82 pst. Households currently offer high-speed broadband, compared with only 63 pst. in 2013. Nearly no households lack basic broadband. Digitalisation gives people faster access to information, new ways of organizing and changing patterns of use. This leads to changes to the Post, because people simply don't use the post office to the same extent. We're going to move more goods from road to rail and sea, and we're going to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport. Air transport is an important part of the provision of collective services in the districts, and we need to improve the potential for profitable commercial routes. The state road system must continue to reorganize when the new regions now take on more responsibility. As we continue with the structural changes, we're going to build, maintain and operate the infrastructure in a way that allows us to get more money back. Good roads, modern digital infrastructure, efficient rail and a functioning collective service are decisive for the competitiveness of Norwegian business and for people to get to kindergarten, get to work and live and work throughout the country. Therefore, we will continue to focus on transportation in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1628	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1633	Let me first take the opportunity to congratulate the Dale Council of State on new challenges. We look forward to good and close cooperation from Stortinget's side, also from the opposition. There's a lot of commitment about tolls, and I noticed that the council didn't spend much time on it in its post. I think it's very much accepted in many places for tolls, but there's a tolerance limit, and in many places we're obviously now at that tolerance limit. On the North Jären, there really was a fire at the fire when Dale's predecessor threw petrol at the fire and said that the question of tolls is settled locally. State representatives in the negotiations on the North-Jearth and elsewhere, the people of the Minister of Transport, say that this is determined by big business and government and cannot be decided locally. My question to the Minister for Transport is: Who decides the question of tolls? Is it decided locally, or is it determined by staging and government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1640	I want to start by thanking you for your congratulations. I can solve this question, but I have already done so to the spokespersons on the North-Jear, which resulted in the President of the Labour Party being happy with the clarifications. It is quite clear that what my predecessor said about, namely that there was full local freedom to defer the introduction of the curfew fee and renegotiate the agreement – under two provisions: a new agreement to achieve the zero growth target set by the Storting, and a balance between expenditure and revenues in the agreement, gave local politicians the freedom to postpone the introduction of the rush time charge that began on Monday this week. The operating space they have chosen not to use, and we take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1650	There are many places where there is debate about tolls, including in Kristiansand, and I stand here with a look at the fatherland friend, where it says: 'The government is turning on about motorism'. It also states that the State ‘restricts itself to the Kristiansand region in the negotiations on new urban capitals’. Here, State Secretary of the Department of Transport Anders B. Werep states: ‘Before the Kristiansand region gets to the negotiating table, more offensive measures are needed to keep car traffic at the 2016 level. That's the requirement. Ship launcher: More stringent requirements for centralised deployment Remove multiple p's Refuse employers to provide free parking.’ I think there's quite a confusion out there: who is it that decides this? In the municipalities and locally in the Kristiansand region, one does not want the high level of tolls to which it is now added, but the state's representatives add to it. Again, who decides these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1672	It decides a local. But one cannot incur greater costs than one is willing to pay. If you want to have the same costs as you have so far, unless you have to pay tolls, you have to provide other local funding. There is great freedom to do, but there is local one that takes the decisions. One thing that cannot go away from is Size's fixed measure of zero growth. That means that when you're going to have money from the state to contribute to good collective provision in the biggest cities, money that you didn't get when the Labour Party was running, you have to be aware that the Storting has said that you should have it, requires that you don't have growth in private cars. There is a clear lead that exists. In addition, there is great local freedom of action to actually organise this for yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1677	One of the six areas of government activity is inclusive work. In this context, I would like to point out the changes that the Council of State has now proposed for the taxi industry, which he was to the extent included in his statement: runs should no longer be based on transport needs, they should be reduced to skills requirements, and no financial guarantee should be required, among other things. This I think is the wrong way to go. Over several years, the industry, in cooperation with the authorities, has been working to clean up the black economy and illegal activities. Many measures have been taken to ensure income and orderly conditions. The centre party wants to have good working conditions for taxi drivers in the future. The operating system must not be rejected, but the requirements can be evaluated. My question is how the Council of State sees that the taxi market will look like in the future, with the release to which it is now being put.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1684	With the proposal that is now being heard, I am absolutely sure that people in the cities will experience a greater supply of taxis at the times of the day they need it. I believe many passengers who do not use it today will experience that the threshold for ordering taxis is lowered. I am absolutely sure that we can do it, while making sure that there are taxis available in the districts – of which the centre party is normally busy. At the same time, we will also facilitate new technological developments in an industry that is constantly losing competitiveness. Because that's what's the main challenge: fewer and fewer people use cars. That means the cars are standing. We need to have a regulation of the taxi industry that makes the cars roll and carry passengers. Then taxi is an important part of the collective service, but then there is also a need for other types of regulation than those we have had so far. That is why I think it is a good suggestion that has been sent on the phone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1691	The NRK has written about the disappearance of the emergency network in the Strynefjell tunnels and the disruption of the mobile and broadband networks in the area during the last few weeks. Calling the emergency kits went on only via a fixed telephone. The centre party has called for plans and money from the central authorities to increase its commitment to preparedness — over and over again. KS requires telecommunications companies to prevent line breaks that power companies may have. What does the Council of State think about the consequences of a serious accident in or at the Strynefjell tunnels and other tunnels without emergency networks, whose mobile and broadband networks are down? What is the opinion of the Council of State on the KS’s proposals related to preparedness in such situations? And what will the Council of State do to ensure that citizens and road users are protected against such a thing happening again?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1698	The state and preparedness in and around Norwegian tunnels are too poor. That's why in this government period we've been behind us, we've made a massive effort to resume the maintenance process and to take back this kind of technology in the tunnels, which was neglected when the Senter Party had the Minister of Transport. We're going to continue to do that, because it's absolutely decisive. This means that there has been a significant investment in the years that we have behind us, and there will be a significant investment in the years to come, in strengthening preparedness in many tunnels. And now, too, we have another conceptual choice when it comes to the Stryne Mountain Tunnels, especially, which means that those of us who actually use these, can also look forward to brighter times, not only because the readiness is better, but because we actually get tunnels that it's possible to run trucks through.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1703	I also wish the Council of States welcome back, in a new theme, and I will make sure that he becomes quite active in the future, we get faith. The party colleague of the Council of State, Hans Andreas Limi, said so eloquently today, "There is an elem of asphalt across the country." That is so true, so true. In general, the Progress Party and the sitting government want large motorways to connect the country, not the railway. The government's budgets are going to come out, and it's coming out of the country. Motorways are built as never before, while county roads fall due, and not least the railway loses. The flagship itself, the intercity expansion, is being postponed for several years, as it looks now. The size and government's goal of getting goods across from road to track is completely failing. CargoNet says people up. They say that something has to be done, and they point to the charge imposed as killing. Will the Council consider supporting the SV's proposal, which is immediately promoted, to compensate for the path charge – as has been approved by Denmark in the EU – and, where appropriate, when?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1712	First, thank you for your good health. Yes, I am very pleased that the Progress Party is in government and is ready to build motorways throughout the country. It is simply because it provides better accessibility, and it provides greater benefits, including for the transport of food in the area from which I come, which is strong in nutrition, but which does not exactly have a well-developed rail system, and which will not achieve it for the next 30 to 40 years, regardless of the type of government that governs. Therefore, the road network is important. Then we do it at the same time as we have full pressure on the intercity expansion, and at the same time we have shown that we are betting on the Ringerix track, which the former governments have chosen not to do. This also means that in the years to come, we will see a formidable effort on the road and an intercity development, mainly because it offers great opportunities to transport passengers efficiently in and around the big cities. Then we're going to keep working on freight transfers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1721	I note that the new Minister for Transport has inherited a weakness from the old Minister for Transport, and that is that when you think about something, you talk as if it's already done. There was talk here of one having carried out the railway reform, and that it had given several passengers. They even seemed to be happy, these passengers, with the new private companies running trains. Then my question to the council is, on what lines do we find these new companies that are now running trains? Or is it the old recipe that gave these results?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1726	I am not so much aware that the representative Pollestad only partly listens to what I say. I've witnessed that a couple of years ago. What I said is that several actors are now involved and are competing for permission to join in and deliver a better and cheaper offer to passengers. This means that the contracts are not yet landed. It's also quite right, and I'm glad to remind you that while we've been waiting for the concrete results of that reform – which has taken time, but which has gone well – we've also bought several train sets, we've seen them on the railway, and we've bought more supplies along the existing infrastructure. It has the power to improve the provision of passengers. We're doing a lot while we're working on the long-term solutions, and I'm happy to have the reminder from the representatives of Pollestad about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1735	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1741	Fish is a fantastic resource. The fish has enormous value for Norway. The fishing gives us income. Fishing secures us settlement and living communities along the entire coast, and it allows us to drive further processing along the coast. Fish is simply an important contribution to creating jobs in Norway. Managing these resources requires a policy perspective as politicians. The government has announced that it will present several major issues in the fisheries field. The central party fears that the government will take the fisheries policy in the wrong direction. There will be a historical failure if you help centralize fishing and collect more and more resources on fewer hands. The centre party believes that marine and coastal resources are shared their property and are to be secured for future generations. We need a resilient management, and not least we need to ensure national control of the fish. The fishing resources in Norway shall continue to be owned jointly by the Norwegian people. A good fisheries policy is not about the greatest possible boats. A good fisheries policy is about having some basic principles on which a policy is based. A fishing grounds fleet is important. It is important that fishermen take care of the first hand placing on the fish, through fish salads. Fisheries shall contribute to living communities along the whole coast. Fishing rights shall not be privatised and the State shall not tax the industry as a whole. Value creation must be left along the coast. It has been difficult to see what the government wants with the fisheries policy. Per Sandberg was a non-directional fisheries minister. We hope that the new Minister for Fisheries will have a compass, because this industry needs a clear course, and the main points of the Centre Party are clear. Firstly, we have to slow down the capital gap that is going on in the fishing industry, so that it is possible for young people to enter the industry. Therefore, we need to change today's system, and we need to change it in a way that makes those who have invested not suffer. Secondly, the idea of a ground-interest tax on fishing must be rejected. Thirdly, companies that have obligations to secure value creation in Norway must comply with these obligations. If you don't, there must be consequences. Fourth, the structural quotas are time-limits and should still be. Fifth, it's important for the Center Party to have a varied fishing fleet. This means that there is no great need for further fleet structuring. The Central Party will contribute to finding solutions to a long-term fisheries policy in the United Kingdom, but being part of a policy of further centralisation is not relevant to us. Many in the fishing industry are despairing and worrying about the future, and it is understandable that there is uncertainty about the fisheries policy. Our task is to land this and secure a long-term fisheries policy that provides widespread ownership and allows young people to see opportunities to become fishermen. Not least the Center Party will be aware that the fishing and fishing boats are supposed to be in Norwegian hands. Therefore, we have to tighten up when it comes to the ability of foreigners to own a boat and fish in Norway. It also applies to the large-scale, tourist-covered poaching of poaching fish. There must be a far tougher effort to stop it. Fishing is a modern industry for the future. Norway is a fishing nation. Then we'll have to work for the clean sea. We shall not operate oil and gas in the most vulnerable areas, such as the Lofoten and the Westphalian. We must increase the catch of nausea and sell, so that we can secure the balance of the ecosystem. The centre party wants to be a clear voice in the fisheries policy. He is a central part of both business and district policy. Then we can't allow the wind to set the direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1771	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1776	I am pleased to hear that we have many common positions in the fisheries policy, and I join in the wish that we may have some important issues to deal with, so that we can set the right direction in the fisheries policy. In the throne, the government says that they want to create new jobs, but at the same time, the willingness to invest in and create them has been absent from the government budgets from the right-wing government so far. I think, in particular, that what they've done is to take away the state's most important means of stimulating the development of nutrition, by cutting 1 billion. kr in the regional development funds. Only Northland states have lost 170 million. I'm left with 30 million kroner. kr for regional development among their enterprises. How does the representative Pollestad assess the development of state resources, or muscles, in order to drive regional development under the right-wing government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1783	I thank you for the question. I also record that the government is pursuing a reverse industrial policy, where a goalkeeper and implement measures to move jobs out of Norway. The sugar levy may be a good keyword there. When it comes to regional development funds, I thought the way the government and the government have treated and discussed them has been shameful. This room has repeatedly been fooled by the fact that no one is going on demonstration trains for regional development funds. I'd like to go on demonstration trains to get back the regional development funds, but I'd rather be in government, so we can build them up. We need to get back a regional commitment to industrial policy, because I don't think it's just the state schemes that will ensure value creation. We also need locally adapted funds, and these are means that actually work, and we're going to have more of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1792	Then we go from the support strips department to real lines. In a fresh speech another president, Donald Trump, just held, he said among other things: we reject globalism, and we embrace patriotism. His speech to the UN was a strong defense of the nation state, the isolation of nations and protectionism. The impressions left for confusion were similar to the rhetoric and politics of the Centre Party. The last time we heard that was in the speeches by the parliamentary leader earlier today. International agreements to be repealed by the EEA Agreement. Norway is to be more isolated in an increasingly global world, and more barriers are to be introduced at the border, both physical and economical. Miraculously, little Norway is going to strengthen its position by cutting off the threads that bind us and our business together with the outside world. So the question is whether the representative can explain in a slightly simple way the fundamental difference between the Central Party's international approach to trade policy and that of Donald Trump?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1799	I was of that opinion and thought that the Right Spink Doctor had found out that it was a bad idea to try to put Donald Trump and the Center Party in the same box. But I think it's about to come back. There is no basis at all for such a comparison. The reality is that Norway is a very open country. We don't have any customs duties on goods entering Norway. But we have some values, that's that we want to protect our own food production because we think Norway has a right and a duty to produce food for its own people. Norway is a country with a cold climate and a high cost level. We thought it was right to protect our own food production. Otherwise there is very little customs and protectionism in Norway. The representative Eidem Løvaas was in Japan, where I called for the establishment of a free trade agreement between Norway and Japan. So it's a wrong impression of the Center Party being created. But we think we should keep Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1806	I guess that's just the point. When the representative says that today there is little customs and protectionism, the Center Party wants to do something about it. They want more customs, more protectionism. We also heard the Central Party parliamentary leader in his intervention have a warm defense for the isolation of nations and a quite powerful attack on globalism, while in the next sentence she says: we are open to the world. How does this openness and this story of history that the Center Party is trying to tell us, that you want to cancel agreements at the same time? The representative Pollestad devoted much of his contribution to fish and fishing. 60 pst. of maritime food exports in Norway to the EU through an agreement that the Centre Party wishes to remove. How does it harmonize with wanting to be open and inclusive, and thus defend that there are great differences in protectionism in Norway compared to protectionism in other countries – the protectionism advocated by the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1813	The parliamentary leader held a defense for the nation state and its meaning. I fully agree that the nation state is an important framework for human freedom. The fact that one connects this to protectionism, I don't think it's any basis. Our party program is very clear. We want to replace the EEA Agreement with another and less extensive trade agreement with the EU. It is not that the Centre Party wants to stop trade with the EU, but we do not want such a policy-making agreement as the EEA Agreement has been. When the Central Party wants to strengthen customs protection on e.g. Whereas agricultural products are the result of the fact that the customs protection which we have had has been weakened and, in order for it to be effective, we must strengthen it; But it is not the case that we have ordered customs duties on cars, refrigerators, kitchen machines or other things that the representative can find that we want to have customs on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1820	I thought it was nice to hear from the representative Pollestad's articles on fish and the food industry, which are, in fact, the production of food, and which create jobs throughout the country. I'm going to go into a slightly different field, which maybe isn't always called food, which is different kinds of products that contain sugar. In my office I now have a stack of chocolate and pastilles after various representatives from Brynild, Freia and Norsk Food and Beverages unions were outside the Storting today and protested against the sugar levy imposed by this government, which goes directly beyond jobs all around the country. What I wonder, because the Central Party has been concerned that we have to remove this sugar levy, is: how can we follow this up with the budget that is now coming in the harvest? What other action will the Central Party propose in the future to secure this industry and jobs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1827	I thank you for the question, and I am glad that the representative has received chocolate from his office. SV does well on the polls for the time being, and I thought it was nice to have a party with some chocolate. The sugar levy is a good example of how a policy should not be pursued. There is a targeted attack to wind up Norwegian jobs and get a budget to go into a pile. I would understand if this charge came in a situation where the sugar consumption in Norway was out of control and rising year after year. The reality was that it was strongly falling. In the first place, I believe that one must reverse the tax increase that came into the budget, and there is no doubt that the sugar levy as it has been for a long time has been illogical, as there is a sugar charge on the product that does not contain one gram of sugar. It's probably a bigger job to clean it up and get a clean system for it. That is why we are calling for a holistic big message on the food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1834	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1840	This summer should have been one waker too many. There has been extreme drought, not only in Norway, but throughout Europe, and it directly affects the food production that we rely on. There have been massive forest fires, which both do material damage and have cost lives. There have been constant heat records around the world. We might think back on a nice summer here, but also heat waves take life -- over 100 dead of the heat in Japan and about 70 in Canada. Climate change is no longer a future scenario. It happens now, and then we also have to act now. The government says in the guise that they will meet Norway's climate obligations. That sounds good, but that's not true, because the government has cancelled the climate agreement. The follow-up is not mentioned in the census, and in the climate communication we find no action. The 2012 decision to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 is still pending. The government has only given up on implementing it. Therefore, the SV and the Workers’ Party are today promoting a proposal for a representative with nearly 40 measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and convert Norway into a zero-emission society. We can and should do more, and there is the difference between the right and left sides of climate policy. We want to do more. We recognise that the world – and Norway – is not on track to succeed in combating climate change. We have to be honest about that. If we continue as we are now, both we and our children will experience catastrophic climate change. Time is running fast. When I started as an environmental activist, I had home-built posters where I had drawn ink wolf and put a line over the cars I had drawn. Then it was long until 2050! It's 30 years into the world must have cut 80 pst. of its greenhouse gas emissions and 30 years to Norway must be a zero-emission society. Because we have so little time, we need to understand that the investments and decisions we are making today determine whether we will succeed in combating climate change. It will not work with massive efforts in 2049. A building that is being built today is going to stand for 100 years or more. A new factory invests in means of production that are in operation for decades to come. A new car, purchased today, is still driving on the roads in 15 years. The oil fields that the government boasts of in the state of the kingdom report, which is now under way, will still produce oil for 2070-20 years after the world will have cut 80 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions. Today, we are proposing nearly 40 measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions because it is possible to do more. We don't have to wait for other countries or other generations to do the job for us. When the government says they want to renew the car park, we show how – without being able to clear the rainforest. We show how the construction site can become fossil-free and how public transport can be expanded. We show how our buildings can become green and fossil-free, and how shipping in the vulnerable parts of our coast cannot operate on heavy oil. And we show how we can be the best in the zero-emission industry that will ensure competitive and green jobs for the future. The decisions we make today, here in the house and in the business world, will determine whether we succeed in combating climate change. The decisions we are making today must be defended in the light of the world's need to cut emissions by 2030 and by 2040. I think more here on the Storting will be involved and do more for the climate, because we know that people out there, outside this house, want us to do more. That is why we invite you to a new climate agreement with concrete proposals to cut greenhouse gas emissions. I hope we can join forces that climate is more important than anything else. It is more important than political games, and it is more important than political achievements. Therefore, we should join forces on a new climate settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1861	I am grateful to live in a country where we are concerned about equivalency, equality and inclusion. Nevertheless, the distance between political intentions and the reality of individuals can be very great. I'm thinking about Hannah. Hannah lost her exasperation after she fell off her horse when she was 14 years old. It resulted in neck fractures and permanent paralysis that make Hannah dependent on user-driven personal assistance, BPA, in order to participate in school and leisure activities in the same way as everyone else. Hannah is experiencing a fight against the system. There is a difference between municipality and municipality and between city parts in one municipality in terms of how many hours of user-controlled personal assistance she can get. That means Hannah's worried about moving to study, because she's afraid she'll get a different number of BPA hours than what she has today. I'm thinking about Nathaniel. Nathaniel was born with Down's syndrome. Second every year, Nathaniel and his parents have to go to the board to get a confirmation that Nathaniel still has one more chromosome, and deliver it to Nav. And I'm thinking about Jon. Jon is now a 63-year-old adult. He lost his one foot as a teenager and has used a pretty big prosthetic throughout his life. When he was 18, he got an offer from the social security office, which was hot at the time, about a good disability, because it was the easiest thing for society. Jon chose differently. He wanted to take education and has been working on robotization until today. These individuals are examples of reality too many. This tells us that we need to do more to ensure diversity and equality in our society. That is why the Christian People's Party is launching an egalitarian reform. What we want is to make sure that more people with disabilities can be active, like Jon. We want to strengthen the measures for an inclusive working life. We also want more space for action for people with disabilities, more places for permanent work, and we say no to competitive outsourcing, because very many of these require stable frameworks around them. We will continue with measures like HELT MED, which show that it is possible to include them with a disability in normal work. I got to follow this down at the center of Oslo and got to see a woman get a job at the Scandic Hotels. She signed a job contract, and they in the kitchen said, "It'll be a better job when we have a diverse working life." We want to change the BPA scheme to an equality tool. Persons with special needs must be able to participate in society in the same way as their fellow human beings. We want Hannah to be helped to participate in society, and that Hannah can move where she wants to go and go to school where she wants to. It was just supposed to be missing. We want to change today's aid schemes and documentation requirements, as the rules demonstrate the lack of trust and respect for people with permanent disabilities, so that Nathaniel and his parents can avoid having to go to the board and Nav every other year. Families shall not be burdened with incomprehensible bureaucratic arrangements. Last but not least: the Christian People's Party will continue the fight against the sorting society and for an inclusive society. Medical science must be used to prevent and treat — not to identify children in their mother’s life with impaired function or diseases that cannot be treated. The Christian People's Party will fight for a society rooted in Christian human vision, where your value lies in who you are, above what you perform – a society where ethics governs the technique, not the other way around, a warmer society that will give space to everyone, and that needs everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1886	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1891	The throne is the government's work list for the upcoming big session, and in that work list we heard nothing about the non-profit sector, which I know that the Christian People's Party is often concerned about. That may not be so strange, because in March 2014, the Prime Minister sent a letter to the current parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party on the follow-up to the case of pension obligations in that part of the non-profit sector providing services to the health sector. In the letter, the government says it will follow this in an appropriate manner, and will invite the ideal actors to negotiating meetings in spring 2014. Before the summer they were to put forward some principles for how this matter was to be handled. You didn't say anything about the summer you talked about, but my question to the representative of Bollestad is: Is she satisfied with the progress of the work announced in 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1898	The Christian People's Party is not satisfied with the progress, but the most important thing for us is that the non-profit sector pension scheme is secured, and then we have to have measures and intervention points that really help ideal actors, because we believe that ideal actors are a glue in society. We believe that non-profit actors should not be depreciated, either in the specialist health service or in the municipal health service, or as volunteers in the voluntary work. That's why we think it's the content of what's coming, that's going to be important, and this is going to be urgent! But when it comes, it has to have an entry point that actually works for the ideal actors, and that helps with the backpack that pension costs are, because the ideal actors have actually done what the state asked them to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1903	I support the Christian People's Party's position on the non-profit sector and the urgency of finding some clarifications. That is why we are invited to a meeting on Friday, which we hope can also help the volunteers to be clear about what they actually want. Before the summer holiday, the representative, Mr Bollestad, was involved in a document 8 proposal which has not yet been dealt with in this matter. What concretely expects the Christian People's Party to come out of the treatment that can solve the challenges that the representative Bollestad himself mentions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1910	Firstly, there must be an economy in this that ensures that one actually gets the redemption, in view of the pension costs, which we are talking about, because today it is not possible for very many of the ideal actors to get into the same line – in view of having a tender – when the bidding hysteria has become like that, because it brings with it a cost that makes it not realistic. It makes very many ideal actors fall out. In addition, I would like to say that we have a business model in health that enables companies to choose to build services on the outside, which also troubles ideal actors, because they build them up in their own system. In this way, the public sector competes with non-profit actors who have been on the road for many years. Ensuring that there are both ideal actors in the public services, and that they can develop further, must be one of the most important things, we believe in the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1917	The representative of Bollestad made a thought-provoking contribution on many important issues. One of the things that the representative Bollestad said was that it's important to look at the distance between political intentions and people's everyday lives. The Christian People's Party has so far supported a regional reform that has encountered massive resistance both among people and among elected representatives. In Finnmark, 87 pst. No through a referendum. In Akershus, Buskerud and Eastfold, both the people and the people are elected in all three counties. One is against a senseless gigaregion that extends from Halden to Hardangervidda, a region that also the Christian People's Party's own party leader has said is not a sensible construction. To the NRK on 20 August this year, the representative of Bollestad said that she was willing to review the question and that the government is now reaching, among other things, that she was willing to do so. had to deliver in the case of tasks. So it turned out – according to KS calculations – that the new problems are disappearing small. Is the representative willing to reconsider the question, including: Finnmark and Akershus may exist as their own counties, such as: The representative of Bollestad's own county?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1926	When the Christian People's Party has been engaged in three levels, it has been primarily to get the tasks close to people, the tasks relating to individuals. People out there are concerned with the structure and distances to the political environment, but they are also concerned that services are close to people. The Christian People's Party's intention to have three levels is to move tasks down to the lowest possible level, so that distances should be shorter. And once we've adopted – as an example from what I said – the BPA system, it's a proposal that we've promoted at national level, but when we come out and see, we see that it doesn't work, because there are different arrangements between municipalities. Then we have to be able to get services close to people, who help people in practice. If I want to change my mind about this, we've now said to move out problems. We're not in it. There are many other tasks than the 100 jobs that you are talking about, that need to be investigated and that can be carried out gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1933	I believe the representative and I agree that we live in a society where there is really enough money. The government also has enough money. That's why it's impossible to understand that people with little and those who are sick will have to pay as high a price as they have, for the tax cuts of the richest. Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party has long been part of this gallery. I know they've fixed up some of the worst cuts, but many, many remain, among other things. to some of the groups that Bollestad took up in his post now. That is why SV has today made a number of proposals to investigate how things are going with those who have received these cuts – whether one is unemployed, sick, unemployed, has suffered fire damage or is a lone parent, as I know that the Christian People's Party has also cared about. Then the question is, Will the Christian People's Party join in supporting these proposals, so that we can see how it has gone with the peoples to whom the Christian People's Party has participated in cutting off incomes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1941	I am honest and say that there have been difficult priorities for the Christian People's Party to participate in those assessments. At the same time, we have a problem with difficult decades in the labour market – a few years ago – when we saw that we also had to put in other measures and make some choices. I can say that I can join in and see how things have worked, but we have not concluded as to whether we are going to follow the SV's proposal today or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1948	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1953	When the Left joined the Solberg government at the beginning of the year, we did so with a clear objective. It was helping to make the government greener, smoother and more social liberal. We did this because we believe that we can deliver even more in government than in Stortinget, and good negotiations on Jeløya provided a forward-looking government statement that turned the government's policy towards the centre of Norwegian policy. The census also shows what the government is going to do in the coming years. Apart from the important priority of creating a safer society and preventing children and young people from being subjected to violence and abuse, and not least ensuring that Norway has a credible defence, the number of thrones raises particularly six challenges. It is transforming the Norwegian economy into new jobs, meeting Norway’s climate obligations, creating an inclusive working life, ensuring well-being at a time when the proportion of older people is increasing, reducing poverty and implementing an integration promise. The opposition has criticized the number yesterday. But I want to challenge the opposition to be concrete. Which of these challenges or solutions is the government outlining, do they really disagree with? One thing is in very general order to claim that the speech was not good enough, as we heard the Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, do yesterday. Something else is to be completely concrete. When I got involved in politics, I did it because I wanted a brighter Norway. I wanted a Norway that took care of those who needed it, who showed close love for those who suffer, and who enable people to make their own free decisions. The individual was always in the centre of my mind, and I am still concerned about the individual's ability to expand in a community. That community is built from below, in the church or mosque, in the library, on the factory floor or in the canteen. Rudeness must not and cannot be dictated from above. That futility must come through the local communities that we know so well. The role of the government is to strengthen such initiatives and give people more real choices. The first task we are facing is therefore to improve the conditions for children and young people both in Norway and internationally. I am proud that my party has taken steps into government. It was the right thing to do to make Norway a more relaxed society. That we've gone to government, we've already noticed. For example, the Government will: not four on the aid initiative, it will increase it by 2.5 billion. kr. That's what the government is doing to keep the 1 percent. This is an objective which is also set out in the Jeløya platform and which will be implemented in the draft state budget – as we have heard in the media – which will be presented on Monday. This bet is not obvious. Assistance is an expression of international solidarity and humanity. It says something about Norway as a society that we've made it clear that we're going to meet the 1% aid target. We deliver on our international obligations. We're an example for follow-up and we're helping those out there who need it the most. At the same time, such a strong commitment to poverty reduction at international level must go hand in hand with efforts to combat poverty here too. It's a value question that concerns all of us who will create equal opportunities for our children. I had not managed to get myself out of the economic and social conditions I was born into, if it had not been for the social institutions around us, the libraries, the teachers, the ones who dared to encourage the single child. I was doing well, and after all, many people are doing well – but many of the children who are born into families with poor advice, poor parental education, poor housing. We say that a good childhood lasts for life, but unfortunately we know that a bad childhood can last for life too. For today’s children and young people, it is primarily in school, in kindergarten and in leisure activities that inclusion can best take place. Especially for minorities, the community of these educational institutions is incredibly important. Therefore, I am pleased that my party belongs to a government that has expanded the offer of free core time in kindergartens, and raises the income limit. For these children, time in kindergarten will mean a lot for language development, social skills and basic knowledge, which will later be crucial for getting out of high school with a diploma. Not everyone has had access to such a good kindergarten offer in their childhood, but I am pleased that our children and future generations will benefit from such an offer. To conclude, I would say that no parties should claim that they have exclusive rights of exclusivity or good intentions in Norwegian politics, or values or souls. The difference between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy is not the good intentions, but how we want to achieve them. For the Left, it's about the belief in the individual, and not least the concept of freedom, which is about enabling people to make their own choices, free decisions, regardless of background. I believe that the government in its draft budget and through what has been announced in the throne will contribute precisely to it – help the individual where it is now in life, and no matter what the situation of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1974	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1979	In the last period, both the President, Abid Q. Raja and I were members of the Transport Committee. There we spent a lot of time on the railway reform, and we debated it many times. The left was for the railway reform, the Workers' Party was against the railway reform. I remember Abid Q. Raja said several times that what we're doing on the railway is not going to affect payroll and pension issues for the employees on the railway. I even remember a big mark that was out here, outside the Stortinget, in Eidsvoll's place, where Abid Q. Raja promised it to many railway employees. My question to Raja today is: Will he continue to say that the railway reform will not affect the pay and pension conditions of railway employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1984	First of all, I am very pleased that, together with the Christian People's Party and the government, we have made the most ambitious national transport plan that this country has had, and also that we are going to reform the railway through the railway reform. We're going to build more train tracks, and we're going to get more trains to go. It is clear that this is an important investment for Norway. Infrastructure is important for individuals, it is important for business, and it is important that we manage to move on by building exactly the infrastructure that we think we need in the years to come. In the previous government, that is, the government of which the representative's party was part, there was a lot of talk about this, but there was little action, while this government has just shown that we are not just making an NTP, but also following up with concrete means. In the case of employee pay and pension conditions, the representative is also concerned about this. I know very well that the government is working on it, and we have to wait and see how it comes now when the government is going to conclude on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1991	The nice thing about the line changer is that you can talk about a lot of things, but it's also an advantage that one at least tries to jump into what's the question that's being asked in a line change. My question was not what is coming. We're good at the railway reform, it's already being implemented, and we're seeing what's happening to the employees of the NSB and the employees of Bane NOR, and I don't know if Raja fully believes what he's saying now, because it's been beyond payroll and pension issues already. So my question is simply – I repeat: Will Abid Q. Raja could still claim to meet the employees on the railway – I will challenge him to e.g. to join me and meet cleaners on the railway, those washing trains – that it should not affect the pay and pension conditions of employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e1996	As I repeated at the end of my previous answer, we are also busy caring for employees, both the pay terms and the pension conditions, and this is something we are actually working on. With regard to the national transport plan itself, the whole point is that we can build an infrastructure further, and just look at old solutions and think that the old solutions are what can be an answer for the future, is not the way to do it. Road reform was also individual parties here on Stortinget against. Now I think one has begun to see that road reform and New Roads were important and a proper reform. I also believe that when we see all sides of the railway reform, some opposing parties will also see that there were great advantages in implementing such a reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2003	The representative Raja took up the distribution into society in his posts. One type of distribution is also about predatory animal management and how a minority in society must take responsibility for and burden on what a majority in society is interested in. Not least the current proposals of the Centre Party are worth drawing out. In the summer, thousands of grazing animals have benefited from grazing and water sources in the outland, especially when the inland area has been more dry and groundwater less than usual. The cultural landscape enriches residents as visitors, Nordics as foreigners. But it's a pick, and it's the predators and the administration. Crustaceans are needed, but not in unlimited numbers. Stocks must be managed. Will the Left manage and take out wolves in the wolf zone, say no to the expanded bear zone in Trøndelag and make the trial scheme related to your withdrawal permanent?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2010	I don't think the Left Party and the Center Party are going to be able to agree on predatory policy, because there's enough distance very, very large. There are some in the Center Party who believe that predators have no place in the Norwegian fauna at all, and initially some from the Center Party believe that they should shoot everything of both bear, yerv, wolf and other. That doesn't mean the Left. We believe we should have a proper tribe. Of course, it has to be managed, and there are specific rules that apply to when and how you can do it, in which zones you can do it, and in which cases. And just like predator policy: something else that's not necessarily about predators, but that's also a problem, and that at least the Left is very concerned about, is fur nutrition. I expect that if we say that fur nutrition is a problem and must be discontinued, and that the industry does not have the right to life, the Senter party will disagree with that. I don't think our two parties are going to agree on either the predatory policy or the closure of the fur industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2017	Last year, Norway imported record palm oil to fill our diesel and petrol tanks. The government's climate policy bathes in palm oil. Last year the Stortinget, with the votes of the Left, also adopted the following: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to require, by means of a regulation of the Law of Public Acquisitions, that biofuels based on palm oil or palm oil by-products should not be used. The amendment shall enter into force as soon as possible.’.» More than one year after that, the government has still not made the changes needed to dispose of palm oil from the public tenders. In a short time, the representative Raja will be negotiating the state budget. My question is whether he will ensure that measures are finally put in place to throw the palm oil out of the Norwegian fuel market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2028	Now it remains to be seen what is in the budget that will be presented on Monday, but I can assure the representative that the Left is on track with the climate, and we want to bring down the greenhouse gas emissions. There's a lot of ways to get to that goal. Part of the solution is that we renew our car fleet with zero-emission cars, electric cars and not least hydrogen cars to the extent that we can get to it. Advanced biofuels are also part of the solution – and we are able to use up the surplus mass that we know we have through our forest industry. If we do that, I think it might be part of the answer. As for the rainforest, I can assure the representative that both I and the entire Left are on the layer with the rainforest, and we believe that all sorts of rainforest around must be preserved and protected. I don't want, and the Left doesn't want, to facilitate the cutting down of the rainforest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2037	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2042	A lot goes well in Norway. Unemployment is falling, employment is rising, and well-being is strengthened. Over the last few years, the government has met with a big teacher’s vow to drop out of school. We have met frustration over poor roads and the lack of public transport with the rise of time in road and rail. We have met with increased health cows with free treatment choices and reduced waiting time. And we have reduced greenhouse gas emissions, among others. through a green charging system, new technologies, renewable energy investments and an international effort to conserve rainforest. Over many generations, we have built a welfare society that we can be proud of. There's a lot of trust between people, and people trust the institutions. We have relatively small differences, many in work, and the path between the bottom and the top of society is short. The proportion of people experiencing difficulty in getting ends to meet has been halved since 2004. Growing up in Norway is safe. We have a good balance between work and leisure, and we have better health than in many other countries. The government's goal is that the welfare society we've built over many generations will be sustainable, so that our children and grandchildren too can enjoy it. I want to bring forward four of the government's efforts that are absolutely essential for us to have a sustainable welfare society. First, we need to create more jobs. They must be profitable, they must be sustainable, and they must exist in the private sector. There is no shortage of good ideas among Norwegian entrepreneurs, the number of new businesses is rising each year, but if smart ideas are to become global businesses, they must have framework conditions and investors that allow export and industrialisation. Secondly, we need to qualify people for the new jobs: the student who is about to apply for his first job, the immigrant who has recently come to Norway, the 60-year-old who has lost his job due to digitisation. We're going to help more people, no matter where they are in life, get the knowledge and skills they need to participate in the world of work. Thirdly, we must ensure that economic growth occurs at the same time as a reduction in CO 2 emissions. We need to cut emissions from economic growth and continue to deliver on the objectives of the Paris Agreement, both at home and internationally. Fourthly, we must continue to work to reform, modernise and prioritise policy. Only then will we have a bigger room to bet on school, health, environment, defense, preparedness and assistance for the world's poorest. If we succeed, we will have a more inclusive society with less poverty, lower emissions and opportunities for all. Uncertainty and unpredictability in the world are important to us in Norway. It affects us when the United Kingdom votes in favour of Brexit and the United States withdraw from the Paris Agreement. It is small countries, such as Norway, that lose most when forces in different countries want more solitude and less community. The international work of the Government shall promote joint and cooperation. We are going to hang on to the multilateral system, and we are going to be drivers of major global challenges, such as climate change and poverty reduction, because the government will not only create a sustainable welfare society in Norway, we are also going to contribute to the creation of sustainable welfare societies in the rest of the world. We do so in solidarity with our fellow human beings, and we do so because it is in Norway's interest that the poor of the world succeed better than they do today. Norway is a major development policy player, and through clear objectives and priorities, cooperation with selected partner countries and partners, effective and competent support management and a wide range of instruments, we can make a significant contribution to achieving the UN's sustainability target by 2030. The government's goal is to create sustainable welfare societies here at home, where our children get a safe everyday life and the opportunity to follow their dreams in the future. But we're going to do that without losing sight of the great world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2066	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2071	I am pleased that we have got our own Minister of Development, and that the Prime Minister has actually taken the Council that came from the majority in Stortinget, that we need that, because the Norwegian aid budget is large. It is important that we have a review of it, so that we know that it meets the political objectives that we are to achieve. I would also like to commend the Minister of Development for talking about multilateral cooperation. In the time we now live in, it is increasingly important. Then there's an area where I see that the government has changed strategy. This concerns UN organisations, where we believe that there have been no legitimate recruitment processes. I have been very surprised – not to criticise recruitment processes, not to promote Norwegian candidates, because they are old Norwegian attitudes, but to cut money contributions to this in the case of the UN organisations. What is the reason why the Minister of Development is changing the Norwegian strategy and following what has been the American strategy and the strategy of developing countries in many contexts when they have not hired their candidates?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2078	Let me first say that I fully agree with Huitfeldt's representative that it is gratifying that we have got our own Minister of Development. It's a personal pleasure that I have of the election that the Prime Minister has made here. Having said that, I am also pleased that we agree that multilateral cooperation is important. 54 pst. of Norwegian development efforts go through multilateral organisations, and therefore it is important that we help those organisations to become as effective as they can be. That is why we have been a driving force for a UN reform, and we are still. And we were very happy to see the open, transparent process when UN Secretary-General Guterres was elected. That's the kind of recruitment process we want to see. And then over time, we've seen that's not the case in a number of other UN organizations. It was also pointed out when Huitfeldt's representative joined the government, and this time it became a consequence of a somewhat reduced contribution to a single organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2087	I am also pleased that we have received a Minister for Development, but not always as pleased with his development policy. Look at you four weeks ago, the development minister and Norwegian chief Bjørn Kjos, and he let big packages into an emergency plane. I will not criticize the fact that help was given to Chad, for that was the case, but I will criticise three things by saying that the Minister for Development was standing there in T-shirts with Kjos and eased emergency kits. I want to criticise the very traditional dramaturgy that is behind this, that white people from the north should help the poor helpless in the south. I also want to criticise this advertising stunt against Norwegian. And I also want to criticise his view of poverty that was conveyed through this. I have long criticized the Council of State for being too little concerned with the political dimension of poverty, but now I will challenge him: Why would he cooperate with Bjorn Kjos in this way, and what kind of assistance and relief solutions was it he conveyed through this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2096	I was invited by UNICEF to join the Fill a flight campaign to Norwegian that this year went to Chad. Norway is one of the biggest contributors to UNICEF. For me, this was an opportunity to see some of the UNICEF projects on the ground in Chad, and I also got the opportunity to do that. UNICEF is doing important work, both related to the schooling of refugees in Chad — and unfortunately there are many refugees in Chad — and also related to mother and child health and nutrition issues. There is a significant challenge with misnutrition in Chad, where 40 pst. children are underdeveloped as a result of it. Then Norwegian aid policy consists of something far more and more than filling aircraft with emergency aid, and I think the representative Eide is familiar with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2103	Of course – I do not criticize the fact that assistance and emergency aid are given to Chad. What I'm concerned about is what traditional dramaturgy the Minister of Development presents. When people are poor out there, it's because someone wants it to be like this – it's because of mismanagement, lack of democracy, abuse of the poor population and, to a large extent, greed. Communicating assistance solutions through packages is a very traditional way of thinking about assistance. I have repeatedly challenged the Minister of Development to point much more clearly to the political solutions he will implement to change the political causes of southern poverty. I have not yet heard a very good answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2108	Of course, we are concerned with the system failures that lead to many developing countries hanging as far as Chad does. In Chad is 90 pst. of the population illiteracy, 10 pst. has power, 40 pst. As I said, children are underdeveloped, and we need to help do something about this. At the same time, they are plagued by a security situation that does not help the situation either. In the Chad region, it's 3 pst. who have access to education – 3 pst. of the children. Of course, we have to work on this, and that's why we put great emphasis on education and health, and we bet on the system and not just on the individual level. There are important issues that the representative here raises. As for the dramaturgy here, I'm concerned with one thing about the Norwegian campaign, and that's that we need the private sector on the team. We need partnership, we need to meet sustainability target No. 17 if we're going to achieve the other sustainability goals. So there's different ways to have partnerships, and this is one of many examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2115	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2121	Many countries have experienced great wealth throughout history, but few of them have the ability to distribute the good. Our welfare community, where everyone gives equal opportunities, is the nobility mark of the country we've built. These are good Norwegian values, I would say social democratic values – a country where many are in work, where pay differentials are relatively small, and where all meet in the same schoolyard. Our wealth, our community arrangements and equal opportunities did not come of their own or because we were happy and found the oil. It has come through conscious political choices and a working life where responsible parties have distributed wage increases relatively equally between employees and employers. The Working Environment Act has guaranteed us equal rights. Social democratic policy solutions have provided free welfare arrangements and tax distribution. In all the progress that has brought Norway here, together with the Nordic countries, which have also largely chosen a social democratic social model, the right side has been rather a brake block than a driving force. Many people are doing well in Norway. The right-hand side uses it as an argument to let go of the problems that people experience in everyday life. But the Labour Party will never sit calm and watch that the differences increase, and that tens of thousands of young people do not get into the labour market. We have a government that has been talking since 2013 about exclusion and inclusion without following up on measures. We have a government that claims to be on the side of serious working life, but which in the government platform honors an unorganized working life, which weakens the work environment law, and which does not interfere with rental and unprofessionalism. We have a government that says it will be investing in increased skills, but that does not put the money that is needed on the table. While the languages of the throne continue the tradition with fine words from the government, the differences between people and the problems of working life are increasing. But there is no lack of alternatives to the government's course. If the government was serious about the fine words, they could help to get more people to work — instead, they cut the measures. They could have supported the bulk of the population in the narrow access to rentals – instead, Stortinget had to force this through. They could have invested in entire, permanent jobs – instead, the right-wing government wants more temporary jobs and a release for the manning industry. And they could have provided pensions from the first crown – instead, they live well with injustice and call our proposals premature. The Labour Party is deeply concerned about developments in which those with the lowest income are reduced their purchasing power, while others are withdrawing. But the census testifies that the government will do nothing to counteract increasing disparities, to ensure the security of all permanent jobs, to increase basic staffing in welfare professions or to protect family life. On the other hand, we are well aware of the government's policy of increasing taxes that affect flat rates, and an unsocial tax policy that increases disparities. There is also no concrete response to strengthen the organised working life, despite the fact that a year ago the Stortinget gave a clear message to the government about prioritising the work for a higher level of organisation. As a result, governments are becoming increasingly irrelevant in both labour and welfare policies. For it has no policy that takes ordinary people's concerns seriously. It has no policy to strengthen the community, and it has no policy to better distribute. It is clear that it is the opposition that must take responsibility if we are to achieve improvements that provide greater security for individuals and predictability for families. I have great faith that the majority will take that mission where today's government has failed. The Labour Party will stand in the front line to bring together the parties that will participate in a policy of stronger community and a safe and family-friendly working life for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2138	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2143	Right-wing talk about creating a sustainable welfare society. I know it doesn't create the biggest cheerleaders when we talk about efficiency, saving, effort and accountability, etc. We are labeled as the party that cares about gross domestic product – I don't know when it became a shell word, but it has become. Then it is much easier to be the Workers' Party, with the simplest and cheapest trick in the book: to promise things from here to the moon that will be free, and then to mention yourself as raw and warm. I don't have time to frame up all the measures that are in that category, but the last thing I got with me was that all the families of children are going to get a week's free vacation. That's the last one. I have a question about whether the Workers' Party really knows the price of these promises. Do they realize that the sum of all the laws are in the process of weakening the welfare of future generations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2152	The characteristic feature of all the reforms and measures that today’s government has carried out has been that their motivation has been to save money, that it has been centralising, and that people have generally felt that there has been a greater impact on the job. It's not a policy we can join. That is why I am pleased that in a number of areas we have joined forces on the left side of the Stortingen to stop some of those measures. But we see that the government is coming forward, for example. in the labour market, they ignore the concerns of workers. They ignore the concerns that, among other things, In the case of mafia-like conditions in the labour market, the crisis has been ignored by the social partners in terms of policy-making. This makes solutions worse. If Frölich is wondering where we have coverage for our proposals, it's just to sit down and read the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, and in what we're presenting later this fall, we're going to do well to figure out how we have coverage for the different measures we're proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2159	I assumed that the representative did not have the price tag on this measure over the table, so I cheated a little. I checked with the Ministry of Finance: 10 billion. kr is the first estimate of what it will cost to give such a holiday week. There is only one action by a very large number on an ever-long list of measures that will weaken the sustainability of our welfare society. I think it is an incredibly simple trick all the time to lure voters with new things that seem tempting. Who doesn't want a vacation, who doesn't want a vacation? The problem is that it is not sustainable in the long term. Nor is it close to being able to be covered in any alternative budgets. So if this is going to happen, it has to be about, first of all, a reversal of the important tax cuts that we have been through in the last five years, and also a significant increase in the level of taxation. I think the voters are going through this kind of promise policy. I think they'd rather want politicians who say what it is: that it has to be created before you can distribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2166	What is at least unsustainable — and the Prime Minister himself has confirmed — is government policy. She said in the lead to Arendalsuka that if today's situation continues, where we don't succeed in getting people to work, it might lead to people working 43-hour weeks. She didn't say it was Right Policy, but that could be the consequence. That's right. If you do not succeed in getting more people to work, if you do not manage to stop the under-exploitation of young people, if you do not succeed in ensuring that the 70 000 young people who are currently out of work are given opportunities, and if you do not succeed in having a third of those who are out of working age today come into the labour market and contribute their resources, it is not sustainable. It is clear in the census, and in the question as well, that policy developments in the Right have stopped completely, but the Workers' Party now has major processes in place to develop our policies in the area of migration, in the field of working life and in an election for growth. Right might like to be spectators and think it's uninteresting to discuss this, and that it's just dangerous, but we want to drive those processes forward. I think that's exciting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2173	When I heard the post of the representative of Grande, I wondered if he had confused the script with that of the representative of Bjørna Moxnes, for the spouse of the black-painting of Norwegian working life one should look for a long time. I would assume that the representative, Grande, did not get nine out of ten employees in Norway to work, and that most companies are doing well. There is a good relationship between the employer and the employee. What this government has done is take hold of the unprofessional actors. That is why we have strengthened the Labour Inspectorate, provided several checks outside, provided a-krim centres, made sure to remove several of the unprofessional actors. It's basically about what kind of work we're going to have. The Progress Party wants a good working life that has room for more than today. My question to the representative of Grande is: why does he blackpaint the working life that we now see works, as we see, making sure that more and more people get a place inside and get the opportunity to get a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2182	It is quite right that the working life in general is well organized, and that most people experience that they are doing well at work. It uses the right as an argument to say that then we can relax, lean back, do nothing at all. For the Workers' Party, it is important to listen to those who are concerned about developments today. When the Kripos boss is out warning of mafia-like conditions, Wiborg would like to think it's black paint, but we're taking it seriously. When employees and serious construction companies in the construction industry warn against developments in rental and criminal operators, we take it seriously. Wiborg must call it black paint, but we cannot stand still and watch it. We have other studies from the Codetermination Survey that go wrong, we have the YS' work-life barometer that expresses a concern for young people who are at risk of being out of work, and we have Free Word's monitoring project on freedom of expression that shows that employees – perhaps especially in the public sector – feel that freedom of expression is being restricted. We're listening to this. Wiborg likes to call it black paint, I take the complete distance from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2191	A well-organised working life is a prerequisite for a safe family and social life. The Central Party fully agrees with the Grande representative. In the Political Quarter of 19 September, the representative of Grande said that the EU's unilateral free flow of labour threatens many workers to become cross-border wasteballs and to be exploited in the most serious way in the labour market. We see this in a wide range of European countries, and we also see an increasing trend in Norway. It's the Center Party fully aware of that. The representative of Lundtigen challenged before today the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Gahr Støre, on precisely this, but Gahr Støre rejected Lundtigen on the grounds that it would threaten the EEA Agreement. At the same time, the Labour Market Committee in the Labour Party, chaired by Grande, says that stricter requirements should be imposed on the EU in order to rehabilitate the Norwegian model. What are the stricter requirements for the Workers' Party to apply to the EU in order to hedge Norwegian employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2198	Firstly, what has been the weakness of Norwegian political debate related to the EEA Agreement and processes in the EU is that the extremes claim that there is no room for action. Those who are the most concerned EEA opponents say that there is no room for action, so we have to go out, while those who are the most eager followers of the EU say that there is no room for action, and if we put something on hold, it challenges the whole EEA agreement. But that's not the reality. The head of the Employment Committee is concerned about exploring exactly what the room for action means. That is why, in the context of the EU's new labour market agency, we have ordered a separate investigation in Stortinget that clearly shows that there are some important things that can come about in that process, but also something that we need to clarify before we can get into it. We have recently been outside the Labour Party saying no to the European Railway Package IV, and we have had fundamental elements in place in relation to the property of the community, through the process in Stortingen in connection with ACER. All three of these cases show that there is a significant space for action that we have to exploit. That is what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2209	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2215	Fortunately, we have good things in Norway, and we see a lot going in the right direction. Growth goes up, unemployment goes down, more people get a job, and the results in school go up. We bring home high-ranking research crowns from Europe, we create more values, and at the same time we strengthen our well-being and create a secure framework for each family and not least for children's growth, to mention something. So we're getting ready for the future and taking action to convert the Norwegian economy. We create new jobs and get more legs to stand on, and that's how we build the welfare state. We build communities, and we create safer frameworks for families, children and the future. New knowledge also strengthens the ability to grow. I therefore look forward to the government presenting a revised long-term plan for research and higher education, and that is how we can continue the good work and set new records. It is particularly gratifying to see that we have never before, in fact, had a higher pressure on research and development in Norway than we have now, and that gives us a good starting point. Fortunately, there are many who lead the way, either in research or by creating new, exciting jobs, thus giving us more opportunities for the future. But opportunities alone create little. Now we're going to aim for the future, and with the Norwegian economy in transition, therefore, education and research is one of the most important things we can do. After five years with the Right in the Ministry of Knowledge, we see that the students learn more, are more present, are more involved, are more professionals and are given an apprenticeship, and more complete secondary education. Nevertheless, I still believe that there are too many young people who fall out of high school. We have to stretch more. But also in higher education, we see challenges, and this creates a need for action. First of all, this is demanding for the individual, but these are also lost opportunities for our country. That's why we have high ambitions for the way forward, and the bet that the government parties together with the Christian People's Party have been delivering for the last five years, we're going to follow up with intensified efforts. It is particularly important that we address the basic skills of the children in the training process. That's why we're doing well to raise early efforts, so that everyone gets the real sense of mastering when they're small, learning through play, getting soft transitions into school, focusing on ensuring basic skills like reading, writing and billing early, but also closer follow-up throughout basic education, so that we contribute to learning. At the same time, we have also changed the courses of higher education and thus created more interesting courses of education, which better meet the needs of the workplace as well. We are also strengthening the framework for investing in quality in higher education, and we are creating a education system that will help ensure that no one goes out to date. Education and training must become a stronger part of our working life, and lifelong learning will be central to facilitating the completion of a working life with faster and faster changes. However, the most important thing will be to succeed in childhood if we are to give everyone the opportunity to complete and pass higher education. Only in this way do we give equal opportunities in life, something to build on in the middle and early stages and in higher education. For this reason, it is also particularly important that, in the further work on early intervention, we get the resources around special education more targeted and, not least, at an early stage. The goal must be to put in place a better system than today, to speed up the follow-up and to put in place measures with well-qualified specialised educators, rather than to have too many investigations and a little too much waiting-and-see attitude that will make the help too late in school. The efforts of teachers in recent years have also been central. Skilled professionals with good communication skills are the most important resource we have in school. The introduction of master's training for teachers and a high level of continuing education have raised the profession of teacher. The introduction of teacher specialists at all schools will also contribute to important development work in School-Norway. We also know that the demand for skilled skilled workers is high in the future. In order to ensure the ability of the industry to provide training, the commitment to higher vocational education will be central to the future. Now that we are making it possible for more people to take vocational education and receive master's letters, this is an important step towards giving our young people more education and ensuring that the labour market is given the necessary highly skilled labour. We have provided considerable support for the strengthening of the professions, and the focus on a sufficient number of apprenticeships, which also ensure the necessary professional and bachelor letters, is and has been important. When we know that just 40 pst. There is also much to suggest that short and practical courses of education at vocational schools can be an important and necessary complement for Norwegian business and youth in the future. We have to give our children – and therefore the future – the best assumptions. We have to make sure that everyone can get a good education, get a meaningful job and get a good life. We will need more competent hands to share in the many possibilities ahead of us. The focus of knowledge will therefore be on Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2243	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2248	The regional reform shall be carried out by force. It has the majority in this room confirmed. It is again presented as a large-scale decentralisation project. Yesterday's NRK was an eye-catching look-up showing that KS had counted on the number of jobs being transferred to the counties and regions on the basis of the agreement concluded between the government and the Christian People's Party. It would represent less than 100 jobs and would only give a budget increase of 0.25 pst. In the light of this embarrassing disclosure, I would like to ask the representative the following questions: Will this transfer make the regions robust, and which of these 100 jobs is such that they could not defend Finnmark as a separate state, but had to coerce with Troms?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2255	Firstly, I would like to remind the representative that she is part of a party that has raised just three levels, and I think it is really quite strange to see the Workers' Party's follow-up to the regional issue in this Chamber. The weaknesses of the tasks of today's county councils have been highlighted for a long time. There are, among other things: point out the lack of integration of the State Road Service in the follow-up of the county roads. And then you get to one of the points. For example, the representative does not include: co-roads management is part of the task transfers and it corresponds to approximately 1600 jobs. In addition, there are a number of other tasks to be explored, and in this way you are really only in the starting pit as regards what will be the scope of the regions as they are to be built up to become stronger and more robust.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2260	We both belong to the new coercive state of Troms and Finnmark, and the government and the majority have not taken into account the strong resistance that has been from Finnmark, where 87 pst. the population has said no to this. When we see what has come out of this now – it is possible for further investigation to take place – and how little robust these regions will be, I wonder: Was it worth it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2265	Once upon a time, there are a number of challenges already in today's county councils. Finnmark County has a lot to do when it's going to get more young people to complete and pass higher education. The Workers' Party has run Finnmark County since the war and must therefore bear part of the burden, if you say so, for that result. In this way, I think it is good to point out that by getting larger regions there is also a greater opportunity to deploy resources, get action and get a more systematic follow-up in one of the most important areas in the counties today, namely higher education. In addition, it is important to look at industrial development and the opportunities available in the north. By transferring co-roads management e.g. will be much better and closer follow-up of the county roads. By looking at the FOT routes, which are one of the proposed ones, one would, among other things, be looking at the FOT routes. be able to coordinate better public transport and travel opportunities. So here I mean there are many possibilities – you just have to look after them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2272	It is difficult to disagree with Mr Gudmundsen's conclusion that research and education will be important in the future. It has always been, no matter how you have acquired the skills. An important part of learning is, among other things: through play and participating in trips and excursions directed by the school community. In recent days, the NRK has focused on the fact that there are between 8 and 15 students each year who are seriously injured in the use of red alcohol in connection with excursions in the Norwegian school. State Council Sanner's answer to the undersigned is that this is a responsibility that the school itself must take. I wonder what answer the representative Gudmundsen has to the many people who suffer from fire damage, and whether he agrees with the Norwegian Fire Protection Association that we should actually put in place a national supervisor for this, just to keep the turbulence and to strengthen the competence and training to avoid these serious accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2279	There are clear guidelines for the care of health, environment and safety for Norwegian students, but also for teachers. In this way, I believe that there is an overall code that is very clear on all the eventualities that may apply when you run a school. There may be more things than traveling on a trip with a kerosene that can be challenging and require a conscious attitude to safety. I think it's going to be a bit tricky to point out that we're going to have a supervisor in this particular area. I think it's much better to focus on safety in general in school everyday life, to contribute to a conscious view that the activity you have is proper, and that when you're out, you take the necessary measures. In this way, I would rather address it as a better and much wiser approach and follow-up from the school side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2284	Through a series of articles in the past week, VG has focused on how the six-year-olds are doing in school. These articles have been depressing reading. Teachers slaughter the school for the youngest. Too little play and movement, too much stress and theory are the teachers' hard judgment. Children’s psychiatrists, researchers and students and teachers have long warned about how an increasing performance pressure, many tests and tests and hours of sitting will create stress and school rejection. The right and the knowledge minister have finally recognised in the rhetoric the need for a school that takes into account the fact that kids are young, but when it comes to what needs to be done, there is almost one answer: the renewal of the profession. It's naive to think that the curriculum itself is going to change school practice. Will the representative from the Right not only talk about the challenge, but also start to address what students, teachers and researchers think is going to do to change the school in practice, namely to overcome the excessive testing?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2291	I think the representative of Fagerås may have had a hard time following what the Right has done for a number of years in the main hall. It's probably the Right who's been the most at the ball when it's going to meet the kids on their own premises, the one with organized education and not least ensuring that everyone is seen. That is precisely why what we now have is a massive commitment to early action, to ensure that our young people get the necessary supplement that they need to succeed in their training course, and not least the great efforts we have taken in the kindergarten sector – from the framework plan that is in place, to legislate good transitions between kindergarten and school. In this way I believe that we have done well, but I agree that this is a major matter, and that will require further follow-up. That is why we have announced our own forecast of early efforts. We will come back to Stortinget with concrete proposals towards special education and how we can follow up on that kind of student even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2296	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2302	Most of us experience being able to get up in the morning and have a job to go to, be part of a working environment and work out friendships and networks. It's good for the individual, and it's good for the community. This year, even more than last year, are getting the pleasure of having a job to go to. Unemployment continues to fall and was 2.4 p.m. at the end of August. That's good. We also see that the proportion of young men between the ages of 15 and 24 has the strongest percentage increase in employment share, but other groups have also increased their employment in the last year. The Norwegian economy is going well, and the prospects ahead are good. There are important prerequisites to give even more opportunities to participate in the labour market. The good unemployment rates show that development is on the right track, but the job is not completed, it is started. In the future, we have to be able to include several of those outside. Some stay outside or fall out of work for a longer period of time. It can quickly become a trap of poverty. The number of children growing up in poverty, where the family has had persistently low incomes, is increasing, and it has done so in the last 20 years. The common denominator of these children is that parents have low education and low professional participation. Children of immigrants account for about half of these. Making sure to include these parents in working life gives both parents and children better opportunities to succeed, to get out of poverty and to be included in several arenas. We know that exclusion can be inherited, so we need to ensure that qualification and work are high on the agenda. Work is the way out of poverty. In the last year, the government has focused particularly on inclusion. The inclusion duvet is in progress. It helps by getting more enterprises to employ them with gaps in the CV or health challenges that may require some adaptation to work. This also shows that there has been a red thread in the work of this government. In the last growing period, we modernised the Working Environment Act so that we get a law and a working life that has room for more. We continued the door and provided more flexibility for both the employer and, in particular, the employee. I am glad that just before the summer, we decided that the main rule in Norwegian working life is permanent employment, without us hitting the door completely again for the company's ability to lift workers who are employed in temporary jobs. One foot within is far better than two outside. For me, inclusion is also about a different perspective: the inclusion of those who are exposed to the crime of working life, into tidy working conditions and legal frameworks, as fortunately the large majority experience. The crime of working life is harmful to society. It creates unclear conditions of competition, and individual individuals are exploited. I am therefore pleased that the Progress Party and the Government have put this high on the agenda and made several concrete actions that work. We have set up seven work-life crime centres, where the agencies sit together. Work also produces good results. In 2017, 3,400 establishments were controlled by these a-krim centres. 481 criminal actors were removed from the market or reduced their capacity. 61 criminal networks were revealed. In the future, we need to continue our work in order to get more people to work, so that they can participate in society. We will continue to work to combat the crime of working life and ensure that employees meet serious employers. Much good has already been achieved through the work that has been done, but we should not lean back, as the work for a good and decent working life in Norway continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2325	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2330	The progress party likes to call itself the ‘party for people most’, even the ‘best friend of pensioners’, even though the latter, through several social security settlements that have gone minus, may have gotten a shot for the bow. But in the autumn, the Progress Party has the opportunity to correct that impression somewhat by voting yes to the Workers' Party and SV's fair proposal that everyone should be entitled to a pension from the first crown. The representative Wiborg himself was involved in his work by those who go out and into the labour market. That usually means a very low pension. The representative Wiborg himself has said that he agrees with the principle in our proposal on the pension from the first crown, but he will not support proposals on that if the NHO says no. Is it the NHO that decides what should be the policy of the Progress Party for people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2337	The short answer is: Of course not! But we in the Progress Party are listening to both sides of industry. The best policy is thought to be developed when you hear what both employers and employees have to say, and then you have to weigh the different interests. But it is very strange to get criticism of the Workers' Party for the pension reform. The working party was – with respect to reporting – the party that was at the forefront of the pension reform. The working party is those who stood behind, put forward and fought through the proposal for underregulation. The Labour Party voted against when the Progress Party and the Government in the previous period reduced the unsocial shortening. So the working party wanted married and cohabiting pensioners to get less in retirement only on the basis of whether they are married or living together. Fortunately, this government has taken action, and the Labour Party has fought against it. But my hope is that the Workers' Party can now support the Advance Party and the Government and provide good and decent conditions for the country's pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2344	A good trick is that when you have a bad answer to what you are asked about, you respond to something completely different. Pension from the first crown is a measure for the balancing of differences between pensioners. In the 2018 tariff settlement, the NHO has refused to discuss tariff fixing of the fair pension requirement from the first crown for all. It didn't belong in the court order, it was a matter for the legislator, as the NHO saw it. Now, as legislator, we have taken them by the word, but that's also wrong. Does the representative Wiborg think that ordinary people and voters in Eastfold — young people, part-time employees, temporary employees and pensioners — think it fair that the Progress Party is refusing them pensions for the first hundred thousand dollars of wages?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2353	We are talking here about a pension reform and a pension system that the Workers' Party is the main architect behind, and then the Workers' Party comes here and criticizes the Progress Party. I think it's very special. There was one thing the Labour Party was very clear on – at least in the past – it was that we should respect the fact that the social partners were going to negotiate pay and working conditions, and here it is about occupational pension, which is part of it. The working party has always had it as an important principle – that it is the parties who are to negotiate. This is why the Labour Party, for example. has argued against and opposed the request of the Progress Party for a national minimum wage, for it considers that the Workers' Party is an intervention in the privilege of the parties that it is those who are negotiating wages and other working conditions. This was up in the schedule last year. Then the parties came to an agreement. The Progress Party actually intends to deal with this: once the parties have reached a settlement, we respect it, and then we work to strengthen the economy of pensioners in a number of other areas, despite the fact that the Workers' Party is fighting against us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2360	We have to do better with integration. Under today's government, it's only 61 pst. by newly arrived refugees who have progressed to work or training. The road to self-sufficiency is long, we need to qualify refugees so that they can enter the labour market quickly. It is equally important that a person living in Norway should also become a part of Norway, which should be part of a strong Norwegian community. This integration work is becoming more difficult in areas where many cannot Norwegian and are out of work. That is why the sample I have managed, which deals with immigration and integration, has called for municipalities to stop resettlement of newly arrived refugees in areas with major living conditions challenges. Therefore, my question is: Will the Advance Party support the Workers' Party's proposal to say no to the settlement of refugees in areas with major living conditions challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2365	At first I think we'll see what actually becomes the Labour Party's policy. I note that there is a great deal of disagreement, and that the Workers' Party is a party with very different opinions on the field of asylum and immigration – not least on the measures to be taken in the field of integration. A good example of this was when, at the end of the last period, the government proposed to abolish the special advantages that refugees had in terms of popular security, where we thought that we should have one set of rules in Norway that apply to all, and eliminate these special advantages. One of the parties that then strongly argued against the Advance Party and the Government was the Workers' Party. The Labour Party clearly wanted refugees to have special advantages. So I think maybe the representative of Gharakhani should take a round in his own party and first clarify what they mean, and then we'd like to have good and fruitful discussions on how to integrate more people into Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2370	The representative Wiborg spoke about a good working environment. If there's one place where there's a challenge this day, it's in the police. Recently, the last figures came on the large sick leave in the civil part of the police case. Suddenly we're up to 7.4 pst. a full percentage point higher than in other countries. The near-police reform is going to be blamed. Then we can probably stack a report or a survey at the top of the ever-growing pile of evidence of how unsuccessful the reform is. But the Progress Party defends this reform closely, no matter how many faults and shortcomings it has. So my question is about something I've been asking for a very long time: why can't the Progress Party just admit that not everything is good in the police reform, and soon use enough energy to sort things out – and not least afford enough money for this? In view of these last ominous sick leave figures of the police on the table: Can the representative Wiborg agree – at last – that the near-police reform is not a great success?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2377	I think first you have to let the whole reform be implemented and have worked for a while before you bring the final judgment on it. And it's not like the whole of Police Norway is going to be perfect because of the near-police reform, but again: this reform is helping us get more police force. We also see that we have a government that is willing to invest in the justice sector, bet on the police. That's why there's more police in the streets now than when the Center Party crashed, that's why the police now have more money to invest than when the Center Party crashed. I think we all want to have a safe society and a police force that has the resources and the ability to move out when there's actually a real need, and have a police that can investigate. But the solution to how we get to it is not to go back and believe that everything we did in the old days, and the way we did things in the past, is the best. We need to look forward to what kind of crime we have, and then we need to take concrete action to do so, and that is what this government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2384	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2390	The Central Party wants a policy for the whole country that guarantees the authority of local democracy and thus the ability of people to influence their own everyday lives. The centre party will have services close to people and is committed to facilitating people to live where they want to. It ensures value creation, resource management, local presence and invaluable local knowledge of both small and large sites in the country. If we are to be able to achieve the Storting's goal of maintaining the housing pattern in Norway, we need to move jobs out of the press areas. Today, the opposite happens. However, housing is also about local conditions. Centralisation is also taking place within municipalities. The potential of local politicians to ensure development throughout the municipality is restricted by the fact that local plans are now stopped by claiming that all housing construction will only take place around agglomerations or collective centres. By restricting the space for action of local people elected in this way, local democracy is being overrun, and the state becomes a brake block for people to live where they want to. Major changes have been made in the income system of county and local authorities in recent years. The changes have given rise to major redistributions by reducing the income of areas with low population and large distances from cities and populous areas of the country. After the conversion of the municipal income system in 2017, 239 municipalities lost between 2000 and 25 000 inhabitants on the changes, while 51 came in positive. All municipalities over 25 000 inhabitants came out as winners in the income system. Changes in the income system and the lubrication of the municipal reform have increased the income gap between municipalities and weakened the ability to provide equivalent services to residents – wherever they live in the country. This is in stark contrast to the languages of the throne, where it is said that the government's goal is a society of small differences. It is essential that the Storting ensure an income system that offers equivalent opportunities for developing welfare services to the population, irrespective of the local structure. It's the Center Party willing to give priority to its budgets. We want to significantly increase the local government framework and restore a system that does not punish municipalities that have chosen to continue for themselves. An important task in the future is to ensure better integration. Many municipalities have major living conditions challenges. Urban areas with a very high proportion of immigrants face challenges in language training and social differences and face major challenges of integration. The major cities also experience a higher proportion of secondary housing. This should be taken into account when planning the settlement of refugees. The situation of lower arrivals could have been used to reduce the pressure in these areas. It is incomprehensible to me that refugees still live in the big cities that have these challenges, while small municipalities with very good integration have to build up their apparatus because they are refused to live on, despite the fact that the Storting has decided that it should be settled in small municipalities in the future. Another clear example of government centralisation is regional reform. Rapid work and coercion have created regions with enormous geographical and population differences without justification. If they wanted to strengthen the regions, it would have been essential to listen to the populace in these states. Instead, local democracy has been overrun and a poor starting point for development. In the Finnmark referendum, 87 pst voted. No to conjure up with Troms. In a new poll among the inhabitants of Sogn and Fjordane, 65 pst replied. No to merge. This should be taken seriously. The so-called task transfer to the municipalities is quite woolly. The KS study shows that, with the proposal submitted by the government, it will total approximately. 100 new jobs combined in the new counties, and that it's about 200 million. kr total to be transferred to the counties. The figures for KS show that the counties get new tasks that give a budget increase of 0.25 pst. By comparison, the expert committee's proposal was 4,760 posts and 15 billion. kr in transfers to the counties. André N. Skkelstad from the Left said, when this was presented, that this is the largest extension of the county authorities' responsibilities since they were established. I have to say I am quite surprised that the left is being eaten with crumbs in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2411	The municipalities are the bearer of the rule of the people and the welfare society. Most of the inhabitants of Norway use municipal and county welfare services every day. There are children who attend kindergarten and school, young people who take secondary education, newly-baked parents who get help at the health centre, or older people who need a sick home or receive care in their own home. Today the situation is that too often youths meet closed doors in the school health service. We see that more and more municipalities have to recruit unskilled teachers or that older people are sitting alone in everyday life. For the Workers' Party, therefore, a strengthened community economy and increased commitment to good schools, safe care for the elderly and good health services for all are more important than large tax cuts for those who have the most in the past. Until the next fall elections, we will hear claims that the local economy is better than ever. Highly and clearly, it will be proclaimed from many pulpits that this is the government's profit. It is true that many municipalities have made profits or spent less money than they received in the last few years. There are exceptional tax revenues, including: as a result of adjustments to the tax reform, which is why the financial performance of municipalities is good. Of course, we're happy about that, but it's not because of the government, because the government itself has not foreseen these revenues when they created their budgets for transfers to the municipalities. That's the problem. You cannot plan the operation of kindergartens, recruit more teachers or take action for the lonely elderly with money you do not know you have when making the municipal budget. Centralisation is a strong international trend that we, of course, also see in Norway. But in Norway, people still live throughout the country. It's an important value in Norwegian society that we want to take care of. Then there is a need for policy and political governance as counter-power to centralisation. Here the Labour Party stands in the first place because as a party we believe that cities and districts are interdependent. In the Workers' Party, we have a positive and optimistic starting point for our district policy. We will pursue a policy that facilitates growth and development throughout Norway. Future optimism and a positive human vision are deeply rooted in social democracy. We think that together we can get more than the sum of what we as individuals can accomplish. We think there's a future in the whole country. But then we have to meet the challenges. Access to good digital infrastructure is crucial for both business and citizens. Today’s efforts to expand the Internet and mobile coverage in the districts are not good enough. There is little business that can be operated in 2018 without good network access. Flowing movies and music contributes to a better life for people, including those who choose to live outside the big cities. We believe that the public must take a much greater responsibility for the development of Internet access in District Norway. The Labour Party believes that Internet access in the digital future will be just as important for people as electricity. Exploitation of existing resources, combined with education and skills, will provide forward-looking jobs. We don't just want to export raw materials, we want higher value creation, higher margins and more to those who share in creating the values. It is therefore essential that we also have relevant knowledge and competences across the country that can contribute to technology development and knowledge, which in turn will contribute to the further development of goods and services that will provide export revenue to the country in the future. Safe welfare services near people are fundamental to housing. That is why we want to strengthen the economy of the local government sector. We want a fair distribution to ensure equivalent services, no matter where in the Kingdom you choose to settle. Social democratic district policy is based on a core wall of work and well-being. Norway has a good distribution of natural resources across the country. In order to exploit this in a sustainable way, we also need a diversity of services, such as kindergartens, schools and healthcare in the vicinity of people. The future cannot be met with the idea that the market is the best solution. The future must meet with conscious political choices and actions that serve the entire nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2438	It is said that politics is the art of the possible. For me, every day politics is fighting for the things I believe in, to put in place good solutions for people, for the country, for Europe and for the world. That's also why the Left joined the government. We have some things we believe in, and we have some things we work for -- every single day. When we went into the government, Trine Skei Grande said that we should make the government greener, smoother and more social liberal. We've done that, and we're going to keep doing that. Now we have a government that will not open the Lofoten, the Vestreålen and Senja for petroleum activity during this big-scale period. And we have a government working to reduce emissions in the transport sector. And when we got the news yesterday that a record proportion of the new car sales were zero-emission cars, it's tempting to say that with the Left in the government, it's really speeded things up. But we haven't just got a greener government with the Left. We've got a raiser and a more social liberal government. The government is now implementing a social drug policy on which the Left formerly was entirely alone. 6 500 more kids are entitled to free core time this fall. Free core time is what Left has been working for for many years, and now there are 21,000 young people with free core time in kindergarten, and for over 35,000 young people there is a reduction in parental pay due to low income. For the Left, aid and our international responsibility for the world's poorest has also been a heart issue for many years. It is the government's policy that we should maintain high quality Norwegian aid and continue the goal of 1 pst. of GNI for development cooperation. These are issues for which the Left's government councils and government representatives work, and which made us choose to go into government. Even I'm so lucky to be working on what's the answer to all the questions and challenges, namely knowledge. Investing in research and education is investing in the future. It is to ensure that Norway continues to have a sustainable welfare society and that we are able to develop new jobs. When I became the Council of State in January, I pointed out five areas that I believe are particularly important in order for us to equip ourselves for the future. First of all, it's the quality of higher education. For working life, it is important that they get good candidates who have a high level of competence when they leave universities and colleges. When I travel around, I see that things are going very well on the teaching front out there, but we also get feedback that it's a lot to go on in terms of quality. Then we have raised teacher training as a separate point, because it is an incredibly important profession, because there have been major changes in that field in recent years, and because we are going to need many skilled and motivated teachers in the years to come. Fortunately, the arrows point in the right direction for teacher training, but it is important to keep the pressure up. The third point concerns research in industry. An important part of the transition must be to create a more knowledge-intensive business. Both large and small companies must be involved if we are to be one of Europe's most innovative countries, if we are to be able to achieve the goal we have set, to have 3 pst. of GDP for research. The fourth point is digitization. It's a point that's left in large parts of the Jeløya platform, and that's a very central part of the transition. It's all about everything from research to further education. The fifth and last point is about the green shift. The climate challenge is our greatest challenge, and research and development are crucial if we are to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Next week, the government will present the revised long-term plan for research and higher education. That's where we point out the direction. That's where we show our bets. That's where we put our commitments. I am delighted to be treated in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2461	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2466	First, welcome to the Council of State. It's nice to see her again. I would like to ask the Council of State to take stock of the follow-up to the Stortinge decision in relation to the treatment of the quality notification for higher education, which was adopted last year. I wonder to what extent the students who are currently attending universities and colleges notice that we have received a quality report – and for that matter that they have received their own education council. What will the Council of State point out as the main changes that ordinary students will notice when they are now in the process of a new academic year?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2473	It is a comprehensive question the representative promises, and it is a comprehensive task we have ahead of us to follow up the quality notification. We've been dealing with different things over the last growing-up period, and the Stortinge has also been active in the debate. It is clear that part of what is to be followed up will come into the state budget, but it is not presented until Monday, so I find it a little difficult to go into those things there. But it is clear that quality work is important for the government, and as I also said in my post, quality in higher education is important. It is important that students learn more and get through the study. And it's important for the labour market that they get good candidates. I would also like to say that it was good to see the representative again after the summer break. Now we're ready to start up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2480	I'm glad I got another line. It shall apply to research — the second main area of the Council of State. Last year there was a real decline in the appropriations for research in the State budget, according to the NCI review. The Labour Party tried to strengthen this in our alternative budget, including, for example: to set up three new 150 million research programmes. ICT and data security, social security and preparedness and professional research. We proposed this under the Research Council, so that it would be put at a competitive disadvantage to the environment, but the government parties voted in favour of those proposals. What does the Council of State say about the sector this year? Are we probably researching these areas of society, or is there a need for increased investment, as the Labour Party proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2489	This is something we will talk a lot about beyond the fall, both in the context of the State budget and in the context of the long-term research and higher education plan. This government has increased its research efforts. It is now on just over 1 pst. GDP. It is true that there has been a slight decline, due to the fact that a research vessel was taken out – that is understandable and understandable. But there is no doubt that under this government there has been a shift in the rate of research. One of the reasons it's just about the long-term plan. We got the first long-term plan four years ago, and it has given us a tool and an opportunity to prioritize. It has given the sector a way of working in the long term. Now we have a revision of it. This is not a completely new plan, but a revision that we are presenting on Monday, where we also show in what direction we are going to go further and what priorities we need to pursue in research policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2494	Quality in higher education is addressed by the Council of State — and, on the other hand, by the definition of learning outcomes, also known as the national qualifications framework, important for both students, institutions and the labour market. The Minister of Knowledge announced the start of an evaluation of the NKR before the summer. Strengthening the NKR may support under the challenges of Norway in terms of competence, the strategy of tripartite cooperation and the wishes of the Council of Competence Policy. What does our higher Minister of Education and Research think about the potential of a strengthened NKR, and does the Council want a full review?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2499	This is a field that falls a little between my responsibilities and Jan Tore Sanner's responsibilities. But if we're going to talk about quality in higher education, we're talking about a width of this that's important in many fields, and where we have a big problem ahead of us. We have announced a roll-out on mobility, which is about quality. We get better when we send people out. We get better when we get people home. We've created a new directorate, Diku, to work for the quality of higher education. There are many actors here, including: is NOCUT an important actor. There are many who work together to raise quality, and it's about having to have good studies, we need to have a higher degree of implementation, the students need to learn more, and the working life needs to get good candidates with the skills and qualifications that are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2505	It's not just individual efforts that are the recipe for success as a student. Good welfare arrangements for students are an important factor in ensuring equal rights to education. However, according to the students ’ health and well-being studies, nearly 70,000 students are struggling with severe mental distress. This is an explosion and very alarming. SV believes that we need to be willing to prioritise this area financially, and that at least we need to put in place a survey of the auxiliaries and see better how to organize much better for the students. What has the Minister and her government done specifically to address this problem at the root? And will the government consider making such a student message?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2512	Student health is linked to health policy as such and is part of the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Health. But even though he is responsible for the community health and specialist health services and the services that students and the rest of the population need to make use of, whether in the case of community psychologists or in the case of other services, many of the prevention tools are available to me. Here's a lot of things that I think we're already working on. First, it is important for students that they receive a good welcome when they come to universities. It is also important to become socially integrated in the study context. Student housing is important for making good living situations where one can also facilitate a relationship between the students. The students themselves point to eleven months of study support. The government is doing a good job of escalating.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2517	The question was whether the minister was willing to send a student message to monitor the auxiliary equipment and see how to facilitate better for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2522	As I said in my post, a large part of this will not be in my constitutional field, and therefore I can't answer the Size of it either. But what the Minister for Public Health has announced in the public domain is that solitude among students will also be a theme of the public health report she is presenting. I am concerned that we need to look at the prevention measures that are in my area, because the most important thing one can do is to make sure that the students are doing well when they are studying. That's good for the students, that's good for the implementation to the students. So I'm busy that we're going to continue with the good work we've done. I think it's a potential for getting even better. The institutions have put a lot more into this year's feeding week. They have good evaluations now, they see that they can be even better. We know that loneliness is a challenge, that intoxication is a challenge – these are things that they look at thoroughly in the institutions, and I feel that there is a great will to be even better here. But as I said, student housing, student support, and a lot of things are recording.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2529	Thank you, President, for a line number two. I try to continue where I left off, considering when something falls between two chairs. When the Left came into the government, the Ministry of Knowledge was divided into two, with the Minister of Knowledge of the Right and the Higher Minister of Education of the Left. After all, the vocational schools were promised higher vocational education this spring. Nevertheless, the vocational schools are not under the responsibility of the Minister of Higher Education but under the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge. Is this an organization Left Heath out when they got into government? And how does the Minister of Higher Education view this in terms of increasing the activity, quality and number of students at the vocational schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2538	This government has a common goal that we should have good higher education at our universities and colleges, but we should also have good higher education at our colleges. It's a goal of this government that students should choose from their interests, that they should choose from their abilities, and that we should get more people to choose professional directions, because we're going to need a lot of those skills in the future. So there's no difference between having a Left State Council running the colleges and having a Right State Council running the colleges. On the contrary, we have good dialogue in the Department of Knowledge with each other, because we have a common goal. We have a common goal of having a good education, because it's the most important thing for the individual student, whether a student attends a university, a university or a college. But it's important for society that we have students who acquire important skills for work and for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2543	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2548	Right will create the patient's health care, and we're doing well. More and more patients are being treated, fewer are in health queues, and waiting times are shorter. Norway has a good health service, but in some areas we can improve. The government, through five budgets, has facilitated an overall growth in activity of 11.9 p.m. and an increase in all patient treatment of about 2 pst. It's a bigger growth than demographic development suggests. Patients have experienced too little predictability in the past, too little freedom of choice and too little adaptation to their situation and needs. When we took over, the waiting times were too long. We've reduced them and we're going to keep doing that. The average waiting time was 58 days in the first tertiary 2018. We have reduced waiting times by 16 days from 2013, and are well on track towards the goal of being less than 50 days by 2021. This had not been done without the strong efforts of all health care workers. We know that they have a challenging everyday life. Good operational frameworks and better management are necessary to further develop healthcare with employees and for patients and relatives. Norway is the world leader in emergency medicine. It is required in a long-distance country. But we can get better at helping people live on after sickness, injuries and accidents. Even if you're done, you're not always completely healthy. It is important to take seriously the challenges that patients and their relatives face after they are outsourced and have undergone cancer treatment or surgery. Rehabilitation and better interaction are important, as much support to relatives. The work on the situation of relatives is important for this government. It is a resource that is often misused incorrectly. Being a relative to someone with chronic disorders or extensive care needs may affect their own health and quality of life. The greatest health difference in Norway is between those who are struggling with drugs and psychiatry and the rest of the population. The treatment offered to those who are struggling with intoxication and mental illness has not been good enough. We are therefore concerned about continuing the escalation of these groups, both in the municipalities, in the specialist health service and not least through free treatment. The fixed medical system also has challenges. Many settlers consider quitting. This happens at the same time as many retire. In addition, recruiting fixed doctors to less central areas is a challenge. This has marked the health debate in recent years. It is important for us to secure this system – without fixed doctors, patients will experience a more difficult everyday life, and hospitals will be under greater pressure. It is therefore gratifying that we can now put the disagreement between the decision makers and the state on the standard tariff behind us. The parties agree that the amount of the task has become too large and that the patient lists need to be down. If we're going to have to do that, we're going to have to have more set points. The Government has now committed itself to a development in which list-length reductions are to be compensated for financially. These measures will help patients to have more time for their decision-makers. It is gratifying that the tripartite cooperation is reestablished, and it seems that the discussions there bear fruit. We will treat more patients and continue to reduce unnecessary waiting for the patients. It is necessary to create the patient's health care. The right will further reduce the waiting time; we want the average waiting time to be no longer than 50 days. We need to increase the availability and capacity of healthcare, while at the same time strengthening the quality of the healthcare sector. An important task for us will be to continue working on the escalation plan for the drug field, the escalation plan for violence and abuse, and, in particular, the mental health programme, which is now under preparation. Good mental health is important for good quality of life. This is why we want to introduce a mental health package in order to provide a predictable and faster treatment. The right of the government has introduced a cycle of cancer packages, which has been a major success. Now this is to be expanded to include alcohol and psychiatry. Neither the Workers' Party nor the Centre's party supports the government's objective of the patient's healthcare. Creating the patient’s healthcare means involving the patient as a partner in the development of services and providing all access to equivalent quality healthcare. Each patient shall experience respect and openness in dealing with healthcare and avoid unnecessary waiting time, and no decision shall be made whether to take the patient without the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2571	It might go towards a more exciting harvest here on the Stortinget than many saw separately. I don't intend to spend so much time on it, but I have to admit, however, that it has inspired me a little to explain why I am on this side of the middle line of Norwegian policy. In 1872 Johan Sverdrup stood on this pulpit and said the famous words: All power in this hall. Even I hope that I, as a wholesaler, can contribute to less power in this room – not exactly what Johan Sverdrup thought. My goal is to move as much power as possible away from politicians and bureaucrats and move on to every human being and let the inhabitants themselves decide more. I appreciate that people are different and live a different life than I would have. We are unique and different, we have different desires and needs, we see different opportunities, and we make different choices – fortunately! We complement and challenge each other, and that's how we get a stronger and better society. These are my basic values, and I'm convinced that most people know better than me what's best for themselves and their families, for each family has different opportunities and different challenges. That is why I work for more decisions in a family's life to be made around the kitchen table and not in this room or around the King's table. People should have more control over their own lives, their own property and their own money. I'm too equal opportunities, but not that everyone has to choose the same. This government shares this view and is concerned that we should put people ahead of systems, and that we must facilitate more freedom when it comes to important decisions in people's lives, whether it be the option to choose kindergarten or school, free treatment when a person becomes ill, or free home choice on the day of the need. We are born as individuals, we live differently through a long life, and then we should not allow ourselves to die as copies of very similar institutions. I experience an ever-increasing pressure from the red-green parties against this freedom of choice and the diversity of welfare services we have in this country. I fear that private initiatives, which help to increase diversity and strengthen competition, and which deliver good quality to users, are at risk, both at a government shift and at a local level, by several cities and municipalities re-communalising or shutting down private actors. Property law is another important principle for me. I am opposed to property taxes, and therefore it is very gratifying to note that the government has already announced that they will lower the maximum tax on property taxes. The Law on Planning and Building is far too extensive and heavy. It should be easier to build on their own property, and more power to decide this should be transferred from politicians and bureaucrats to those who are going to build and live. This government has simplified this legislation, but we should simplify it more, and then people have to choose local elected representatives who promise to use the flexibility of the regulation, i.e. not those who always say no, but those who are good at looking for reasons to say yes. His Majesty the King mentioned the need to create a sustainable welfare society. In order to maintain and further develop a sustainable welfare society, all citizens have to pay a share of their income as taxes. Although this government has reduced taxes and taxes by about 25 billion. kr, there are still some who are struggling to live a good life of their own income. The level of taxation we have is still too high, and that is a great potential to make the public services we have more efficient. We as growth representatives should know an obligation to always look for better and more efficient ways to do things. Unfortunately, many choose the simplest way out when expenditure increases: taxes and taxes increase. Then, as politicians, we let go of making unpopular decisions about efficiency and cutbacks, and increased costs spread instead beyond everyone. I have a basic belief that people know better than me how to best manage their own money. That is why I work for us to operate more efficiently and at the same time facilitate more business development to get more people to work, so that everyone can pay less in taxes. Respect for people's time, life, property, money and the need for freedom of choice drives me and places me on this side of the line in Norwegian politics. I'm in politics because I want to make less decisions about people's lives – just because I want less power in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2594	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2599	I want to address a challenge that is best solved in common, not around the individual kitchen tables. The government of Stoltenberg presented the Education for Welfare Communication to meet the challenge, among others. an ageing population and fewer active people in the time ahead. Unfortunately, today's government has done little to follow up on this. Several participants in Life's Life Hearing pointed to a lack of competence as one of the major challenges facing you. In 2016, the National Center for District Medicine presented a study showing that the nurses who are educated in North Norway will be in North Norway. Nevertheless, decentralised education in Helgeland is cut, and the offer in the Westål still faces an uncertain future, despite the fact that Health Nord’s development plan focuses on training as much as possible in its own region. What will the Progress Party and the committee leader, Steffensen, do to ensure that Norwegian municipalities and Norwegian hospitals have access to enough health professionals, and not least a good distribution of professionals, throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2607	There's no doubt that we'll need a lot of professionals in the future, it's just that we need 100,000 more skilled workers in the next 20 years, a lot of them will have to work in the health sector. It is then important that we, as politicians and society in general, suggest the need to choose a profession and choose in the health sector, where there is an increasing need to get more people to work. If people are going to choose a health profession, we have also given the opportunity that, after they have taken a professional letter, they will have the right to build on it, so that they can move on to higher education and train themselves as nurses, for which there is also a great need.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2612	I am pleased that the representative Steffensen is bringing out the trade union workers, and we agree that we need them. However, it is also not possible to stick under the chair that there is a huge shortage of nurses in Norway today. I have spoken to two of our rapporteurs in Nesna and Hadsel, respectively, today. They say it's just a crisis. The municipalities are overcoming each other, it's not enough nurses, they don't get enough people. That's why I'm wondering what the committee leader Steffensen wants to do with decentralised education offers, precisely considering what I was up to in my first question: nurses who train in North Norway are staying in North Norway, yet these offers are being put down. At least it's not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2617	In revision, 100 new nurses came around the country, among others. came 10 or 15 to Finnmark. The feedback from there is the same, that the experience is that 60-70 pst of those taking training in a place are resident in the area where they take the education. So that work I feel that we're doing, that we're spreading education beyond, and that work we're going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2622	Education, research, innovation, democracy: these are important things no matter who gets more or less power – whether it's in this room or it's around the kitchen table. The objectives are often the same, but the instruments are very different, as we got an example here. Who is going to preface innovation and regional development is such an important issue. Regional reform is moving forward, but who wants this, and who really is the architect? You can still wonder about that, and maybe especially when it comes to statements from the Progress Party. When the situation has become as it has been, with a fundamental view that the state level should disappear while reducing bureaucracy, it is in particular that the Progress Party does not have a clearer voice in this debate. Is it once again the task message it is going to argue with, which is going to erase any doubt? We remember that same locomotive chemical was used when the municipalities were to be merged.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2629	I did not really register any specific question, but about the regional reform, I can say that the Progress Party is involved in an agreement with the other three parties. There is no secret that our primary position is two levels of government, but in an agreement to implement a necessary municipal reform, we have also agreed to reduce the number of counties to eleven. We think that's a good thing to do because we'll be able to reduce bureaucracy. There has been a report which shows that it can be estimated down to approx. 340 million. kr. But it's no secret that our primary position is to put down the county municipalities. We think it's better with eleven county municipalities or regions than with the county municipalities we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2634	Recently, one of Norway’s largest kindergarten chains has increased its income by 43 pst. the first six months of this year. The chain has increased at express speed and over the last six years has quadrupled its turnover. Hundreds of kindergartens have been purchased in the last two years. Now the kindergarten group is worried about their own profits because they have to comply with the nursery norm, and they say they have to cut the activity offer. We see a development in the kindergarten sector where more and more small ideal kindergartens are bought up by large commercial companies – less diversity there. And we see regular examples in the media where some owners have created private wealth by, among other things. to buy and sell kindergartens. Does the representative think that kindergartens in Norway, both municipal and private, have so much money to spend on – that the employees have so high wages and good working conditions – that it is quite fine that your taxes and my parental payments go to profit?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2641	Here it was a lot at once. Only to include it in profit first: the average dividends in the sector are 0.4 pst. 800 private kindergartens in 2016 were in deficit, and the profits made in 2015 were 85 million. kr. So there's not huge dividends being taken out. Let me make this clear right away: I'm in favour of private kindergartens, I think they're important contributors to the diversity we have in the sector, which has made it possible for us to have full kindergarten coverage today. When we know that private kindergartens score better in the parental survey than the public ones do, and we know that they run cheaper than the public ones do, I don't think it's wrong that there's also someone who can make money to run these kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2648	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2653	Our biggest challenge for health policy is that we have major social health differences in the population. Elsa is divided differently. External factors with which income and education are involved determine how healthy one is and how long a liver is. In studies, more than half of the population respond that they feel that our health services are two-tiered, that the personal economy means something about how well you are treated. The government announces in the throne that they will create a viable welfare society. But without addressing the deep social causes that health differences are all about, and preventing a two-way sharing of our health services, neither the health services nor our welfare community could be called resilient. If a strong and decentralised public health system is not protected where health services are provided on demand and not on demand, health services will be able to reinforce social and geographical health differences and not counteract them. That's what's happening. The government's policy is individual-focused. It's the patient's health care. It's not even a patient's health service. The patient’s healthcare system is not a healthcare service for those who do not want to become patients. It is not a health care service for increased prevention, improving public health and minor illness. The patient’s health service is not a health service for better preparedness, for security in local communities throughout the country. The Central Party is responsible for another policy. Our goal is to create people's health services. It involves a strong public health service, where we prevent the centralisation and privatisation of important health services, and where we can centralise a part of planned treatments, but where we cannot centralise our health care. It is about the security of our communities, which is important not only for patients but also for busses and business development. The government promised to strengthen the emergency medical out-of-hospital supply when they presented their national health and hospital plan in 2015, but that has not happened. A strong centralisation of the ambulance service is now being reported throughout the country. This leads to the impoverishment of emergency services in the districts. In general, all regional health services occur, despite the fact that none of the regional health services currently have an offer where the ambulance services meet the guide requirements for response time that Stortinget has seen, and because of the lack of financial framework for hospitals. As a result, residents in several district municipalities experience increasing and long response times for ambulances. The centre party has submitted a Document 8 proposal, where we want a stepping up plan for the ambulance service and prevent centralisation, and where we ask for legal requirements for the ambulance response time, as in the fire service. I find it incomprehensible that it should be more important to make demands for response time in case of fire than when it applies to people's life-threatening conditions. What happens is that health professionals in a large way shift their responsibility of preparedness to the municipalities without the money being paid. A councilman in a municipality in Hallingdal who I recently visited said that now was 60 pst. of the expressions in the fire service health mission. The emergency services in the fire department are a good supplement in the district, but they are now being replaced with medical services when the state centralizes their emergency services. There are signs of a policy where a set of prices everything, but there is no value of anything. The medical service must also be mentioned, as there is a simultaneous centralisation of the medical service as in the ambulance service. There is a reason to think about the fact that today there are those who are responsible for this health care in the afternoon, night and weekends. They do it on leisure time, in shifts outside normal working hours. That's one of the reasons why we have a fixed crisis in Norway. It is also important for preparedness to increase it. Trust is an important value in the Norwegian health system. People still have great confidence in public health, but more and more fear a two-way street, and the Storting must take it seriously. There's a limit to everything, especially the centralization of our nude services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2674	The July 22 Commission said it very clearly: the most important response resource is the ordinary police. So I'm going to use my article on that topic today. In 2015, the near-police reform was adopted here in Stortinget following negotiations between the Bending Government, Left, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party. The government and the left had multiples without us. The choice was between wanting to affect the outcome or not. The Labour Party was and is in favour of a reform of the police. The clear recommendations and criticism after July 22 demanded it from us. We achieved a number of measures for better culture and leadership, which were mentioned in the original proposal and were a clear recommendation from the Gjørv Commission. We had clear demands for good local processes at an early stage. Overall, this is not followed up. There is a lot of work being done in the Norwegian police department. Despite challenges and a strong pressure on the resource situation, I am impressed by both the efforts and the will of the police to resolve the societal mission we have imposed on them. But we also need to be able to see and hear them when they shout warnings. Yesterday, in the census, it was referred to the near - police reform in response to a strong protection for victims of crime. The implementation of this reform does not seem to be the answer to it. The most serious thing now is that reform work and lack of good implementation clearly seem to go beyond the legal certainty of people. For example, we have many examples of bursting capacity in the districts that lead to criminal cases with a known perpetrator being abolished, and of serious criminal cases that can lie for years without coming to court. This has been clearly communicated in the last few days by several aid lawyers, and by the police. In particular, we've seen it from the East Police District. There is also the right of a police officer who himself says that the reform work is a lot of the reason for the large, demanding situation they are now in in the East Police District. This clearly breaks with the premise of the agreement on police reform, that it should not be austerity reform. The reform would free capacity and police force. So far, we can document a significantly reduced economic space for police districts. Police production is falling, the remains are increasing, and the response time is not being kept – despite the fact that there are many, many more in the police now than when that reform was signed. One has to ask himself where these police posts have actually ended. The central part of the agreement – at least for the Workers' Party, before we got it in place – was the promise we gave to the inhabitants. This part of the equation I think is clearly broken. There we made clear demands for the local process in the early phase, which was to guarantee the municipalities ownership of the final result, in order to ensure close police. The working party stands firm at the agreement we made, but I confirm that the government does not. Instead of cutting the budget for the police districts, the Labour Party has proposed reinforcements. Instead of almost emptying the rest of the canteen offices and the content service locations, as we do. sees in my home country, Telemark, we will strengthen them, as we originally were some about, and as we decided in this hall in 2017. The Minister of Justice told the NRC last night that the police have the resources they need to be able to take care of things, and that one sees many good results as a result of the reform. Yes, it's clear that we also see good results, something that works, but that the police have the resources they need to carry out the biggest police reform maybe nothing, is not the case. We have seen too many examples of weak bets on security and preparedness in the last year from the sitting government, despite the fact that the Prime Minister made choices on a stronger preparedness. The ordinary police are the most important response resource in our country. The working party will continue to work to strengthen the most important response resource, namely the ordinary police.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2695	The languages of the throne give clear priorities as to what kind of society we want. The debate also provides an opportunity to stress that Norway, our good country, which is safe and good to live in, should continue to be so, and that there is an overall value to characterise our society. There's unrest out there, beyond our borders. We see occupation, terrorist attacks and also signs of a global trade war. We also see that both foreign and development policies have become local policies. The fact that Norway has a defence that ensures and supports that we remain a safe country, secure security and freedom, but also respect the fundamental democratic values for which we have tradition, is one of the things that should shape our society and which is the ultimate value. For the Right and also for the Government, it is important that we make Norway's place in the world safe, but also that it is predictable. The right-hand objective of foreign policy is to promote precisely the Norwegian interests and to contribute to resuscitation and increased international cooperation. There is a serious peace effort on the ground. To the right and to the government, it is important that we also ensure predictability in what is security policy, protection of free trade and close cooperation with Europe, but also our neighbouring countries in the Nordic region, and that we see clear priorities in getting results management in what is development policy, our assistance. In Norwegian policy, all these areas are under pressure. It is therefore important for me to stress that I am well pleased that both the right hand is on the steering wheel, and that we are also responsible for these areas. The goal of concentrating assistance both geographically and thematically makes us more strategic, and it also enables us to provide help that works, and that we can show results. It's the results that have to count, it doesn't just keep with good intentions and warm thoughts. It helps and makes good sense, but the right will also ensure that Norway is firmly anchored in our defence cooperation in the NATO alliance. I am very proud of the Prime Minister's statements at the UN General Assembly that we cannot afford to let protectionism, discrimination and economic rivalry define our future. The work for Norway's candidacy in the Security Council in 2020 has also been good, and I also hope that it can lead. For the Right, the defence of the country and the security of the inhabitants of our country are one of the most important tasks of the state. A good defense is more important than for a long time. The world has become less secure in many ways. We see a more self-reliant Russia and a Middle East in great, dramatic change. Norway is not unaffected by this. When we went to the government in 2013, the defense was underfunded, and since then the budget has increased by 24 p.m.. - From 43, B.C. NOK 55 billion. kr. This will continue in the years to come, but it must be done on a planned basis, and it must also be professionally thought out. In the case of the aid budget, Norway is at the top of the world, both in terms of absolute figures and also in terms of gross domestic product. The 2018 aid budget therefore amounts to 35.3 billion. kr and corresponds to 1 pst. of GNI. This also means that Norway has exceeded the UN guidelines on using 0.7 pst. of GNI for development assistance. In 2017, the aid amounted to 34.1 billion. kr., and 54 pst. were channelled through multilateral organisations such as the UN, but also the World Bank. By precisely providing multilateral channels of assistance, we can also cooperate with other donors and commit ourselves to achieving better results. The sustainability objectives are leading the development policy of the government. It is stated in the Report. St. 24 for 2016-2017, Joint responsibility for the common future – Sustainability objectives and Norwegian development policy. All UN Member States have also committed themselves to working to achieve the 17 sustainability goals. Norway has contributed a lot and can contribute a lot, but we cannot do it alone. That is why I am very pleased that the government has chosen to give priority to assistance in five main priorities: education, health, climate, environment and renewable energy, business development and job creation and humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2721	The party of progress is now starting the sixth year of growth in which we see the stamp of the Progress Party on politics and create a simpler everyday life for most people. Norwegian economy is in a good track, we're in an upturn. Growth is not fragile – although some social debaters and actors claim it. The growth of the mainland economy is higher than the long-term trend, and employment rose rapidly and on a broad basis. Both Noregs Bank, NHO and SSB report great optimism in business, an optimism that we also feel when we're out and meeting business and residents. Investments have increased in both mainland and oil companies, and exports from the country are improving. Since spring 2016, employment has increased by 70,000 people. So far this year it has been rising in the proportion of employment in most age groups compared to the same period last year. In the eight years of red-green government, the Progress Party had more mandates than in the previous and in this period, but we still had much less influence on the governance of the country. Most people then experienced an increase in taxes, especially through the increasing use of tolls and the increasing use of property taxes combined with a poorer municipal economy than we are witnessing today. After the red-green period, we have seen a government and a large majority that have reduced taxes and taxes by more than 20 billion. kr. Today we registered that a lot that can be affected already during this accumulation period has proposed to reintroduce the inheritance fee, which we have removed. Another party that may also have an impact during this period will increase taxes and taxes in the country by over 15 billion. kr. The last Norwegian business life needs is that such batches that will reintroduce and increase taxes and taxes will have an impact on future government budgets. The next year is going to be very exciting. I believe that the tax on ownership will shape the political debate of the coming year. The Progress Party has made sure that there will be a case that will be debated in the Storting, because we have had a government breakthrough to reduce the tax rate on the homes of people, from seven to five per million. In addition, we would like to take other steps to make it harder for Norwegian municipal politicians to send the bill to their inhabitants. The party of progress looks at the dwelling of people as a home and not a treasure item. In addition, we have municipal elections less than one year in advance, where Norwegian municipal politicians can also discuss ownership taxes. I hope that many of the municipal politicians who make choices will propose to reduce and remove the property tax, so that we do not see the big paradox that the municipalities have never had better income than now, combined with the fact that they have never demanded more property tax than now. It is quite possible to run a Norwegian municipality with good services in the care of the elderly, kindergarten and school without a tax on ownership. The property tax is primarily unsocial and frames the weakest. Nor should anyone be in doubt about the Progress Party's policy on fees. I notice that the Center Party leader Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum used the debate today to also talk about fees, and he made a little fool of the fact that the bulk of the population has made sure to increase some charges in some areas. It's very special when we know that his own party trap Kjersti Toppe has been fighting for years to tax unhealthy foods harder. It has been a centre party, which has also been supported by the Labour Party and which has been mentioned by many, but which does not have our government party policy. When the Christian People's Party negotiated this into the state budget, it was agreed with many other things. But making fun of the fact that we have increased some charges from Stortinget's side, which the Center Party has asked for, gets a bit hollowed out. Therefore, a fool should not be made of it. In addition, the Centre Party has agreed to remove the so-called 350-kroner limit for duty-free imports. How good is district policy? One knows that there really are people in the districts who now have access to buying things on the Internet and getting them delivered out into the whole country, and then we will clearly discuss in the fall to take away a good for District Norway, and the Center Party is in the rush to take it away. We are working with consumers, so that Norway can make purchases in a sensible way, with no costly fees and problems for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2738	Security for ordinary people is important for the Workers' Party. We therefore see with great concern that the differences are increasing and giving rise to uncertainty. Real security and an effective security situation are equally important access to welfare services. It is no wonder that the Workers' Party believes that these services should be organised through a public offer or offer made by a non-profit organisation. This is in stark contrast to the Right, which has an ideological approach to privatising public welfare services. Privatisation of public welfare services does not increase employment or value creation, but it leads to greater uncertainty, increased disparities and reduced popular governance of important services. When, earlier today, the representative Trond Helleland made his incredible statement that the private sector is not valued by the left, this was a meaningless and somewhat blatant statement that must only be seen as an attempt to cover some of the major challenges that actually characterise the Norwegian economy. One of the most widely used arguments in the autumn of 2013 was the need to convert the Norwegian economy, to reduce oil dependence and to remove the concerns associated with the two-way division of the Norwegian economy. Since then, it has not been lacking in rhetoric but in politics and results. Now that the Norwegian economy is improving, it is once again about the rise in the oil and gas sector and the emergence of the two-part economy. There is now a need to demonstrate greater capacity to transform rhetoric into a policy that actually underpins growth in real mainland investment. L.L. Chief Inspector Roger Bjørnstad writes in a chronicle this week: ‘Nordic economy is experiencing a very weak economic recovery. In fact, we have not registered such a weak rise before." That's the opposite of the representative Mr. Njåstad just now tried to present. The claim of Bjørnstad is well supported in an analysis by LO. For each krone of enterprises with profits, only 50 dollars is spent on investments in new business. Investments made and jobs created in the mainland economy are low-productive and low-resilient in the face of new economic cycles. In addition, there have been major redistributions of value creation. Workers have been reduced and the owners of the holding have received more. Summary: Differences are increasing — errors are being invested. The NHO's quarterly report, which came yesterday, also supports a weak optimism in the economy, but also addresses worrying issues. The NHO warns against a falling proportion of younger age groups being at work. According to the NHO, it is also worrying that there are falling shares in work and increasing social security benefits for people of pre-employment age. There are also alarming conditions related to export parameters, and several important points have been downgraded since the previous report – in other words, demanding and serious conditions. Therefore, I think it is good that the government also this time mentions that the biggest challenge is to convert the Norwegian economy to create new jobs and more legs to stand on. I hope that this time, after five years of rhetorical approach, we can, for once, see a political approach to this issue from the government as well. We have faith in small differences between people, which gives higher confidence and a more productive business that can invest more in the future. We think safe people dare more. Therefore, it is necessary to have a policy that ensures permanent jobs and smaller differences, also in order to support value creation. Surplus and renewable energy needs to be prioritised for growth and value creation in Norway. We need to ensure the framework conditions that make Norway a preferred country to invest in. We need to process more and create added values of the amazing raw materials available to us, whether it's fish, forests, minerals, wind or hydropower resources. The general nature of business policy has failed. Billions of taxpayers do not increase investment in forward-looking, secure jobs. We need a specific policy that develops opportunities, ensures investment and provides a safe basis for future value creation, which in turn ensures safe, good jobs for the future. We therefore need less rhetoric and more politics. We must create more security and not less, for the mariners included. We should spend the big money on new opportunities, reduced differences, increased security and equal opportunities for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2764	Norway is a good country to live in, and most children in Norway have a safe and well-growthed population. A good childhood lasts for life, but unfortunately a bad childhood can also last for life. Not all children are equally well in Norway. Unfortunately, there are children who grow up without a safe frame and with parents who have enough to take care of themselves, children who are bullied at school, and children who are worried about whether there will be food on the table tomorrow. As politicians, this is one of the most important responsibilities we have, namely to ensure our children a good future. I am proud to be part of a party that raises children and young people, families and human dignity, a party that puts man at the centre of politics – not the systems. The stories of those who tell about how they were subjected to bullying are heartbreaking. The causes of bullying or even bullying are often very complex and complex. There is no single measure that can solve the problem. We need to talk, both professionals, parents and politicians, about how best to prevent bullying. We in the Christian People's Party are happy that we've had a positive impact on the creation of bullying agents in all counties. The Christian People's Party has also been a driver for the establishment of the chat service Talking about bullying, a nationwide service with headquarters in my hometown, Kristiansand. This service I hope can help children to believe that it is useful to say from. Violence and abuse against our children and young people is one of our biggest societal problems. This winter we could read in the A magazine about 89 Norwegian net offenders. The reading is a very strong diet, but we must not take the skyscrapers on for that reason. We need to do more to prevent, detect and combat these cruel acts. In the last period, the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal in which we asked the government to present a comprehensive escalation plan to combat violence against children. I look forward to a report by the government, in the context of the submission of the State budget for 2019, to provide the basis for the assessment of the economic needs related to the fight against violence and abuse during the planning period. I'm a child of Reform 97. When I was 5 years old, I bought my first lap and my first pen, and I got ready for my first day at school. For me, this became a soft transition from kindergarten to school. There was organized learning and little demand for performance. But unfortunately, I think the everyday life of today's five- and six-year-olds has changed. This week we could read in the VG that preschool children get sick of stress. A child psychiatrist now warns against the pressure that children experience in kindergarten and school. It's serious. Generation performance has unfortunately become a fact not only for young people but also for children. Here, as adults, we have to lead and help children get the growth they deserve, with healthy and good values. That's why the Christian People's Party has fought to get more health sisters in school, so we've fought to get our own lifelong education in school, and that's why we've fought for a teacher's norm to ensure teachers have the opportunity to see each student. We have also set up a crew standard in the nursery. This is precisely because we believe that the children are the most important thing we have. These are quality reforms, and I think they will have a great impact on the growing generation. The Christian People's Party will give time to the families. The Christian People's Party will give time to the children. That's why we're going to increase child-responsiveness. We've increased and will increase the parental mortality rates of those who are not at work. Christian People's Party is also the guarantor of the cash support. For the Christian People's Party, this is about parents knowing what is best for their children – not us who are here at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2783	It's been a hectic and instructive first year at Stortinget. There has also been a year of some real-life orientation, and there has been a rapid transition from working life to the United Kingdom and from local policy to national policy. In local politics, I experienced good debates where we often agreed on the description of reality. It happened that we disagreed on the instruments, but it is part of the policy. I therefore received a real awakening when I took part in my first debate in the 2017 election campaign and was met with a dark report on Norwegian working life. The poverty descriptions were in line: unemployment would increase, employment would fall, and Norwegian work life was characterised by crime and workers who were dissatisfied with work. I thought for a long time about why he had this sad worldview, because the truth was – and is – that unemployment is falling, employment is rising, and more jobs are being created. At the same time, there is no need to lift the flag and say goodbye. It is seldom wise to settle down on what things are, and continuous improvement lies in the nature of the conservatives. There is no doubt that we need to change in order to preserve the good of our society. It is not good enough when 400,000 Nordics are out of work. It is not good enough when working hours are not adapted to needs and different situations of life. And it is not good enough when unprofessional and criminal actors get away from working life. Even though a lot goes well, we've done a lot of cleanup. Especially are we concerned about the kids who grow up in families that can be described as poor. These kids are deprived of the opportunities of other kids. They have worse conditions for success in school, and they have more health problems. A member of the Salvation Army said that although distributing food and clothing is important to alleviating poverty, the most important poverty fighter they have is working with Frtex. It gives you the opportunity to work. We need a Norway where everyone gets to participate. It is therefore essential that we be able to qualify more people for work, and that we start early, with kindergarten, primary and further education. We have to cheer up both professionals and academics. We both need, and we need a lot more. The inclusion virtue is an important success factor, but then we have to stop putting people in the booth. One of today's major challenges is to include both men and women in work and in the world. It's thoughtful that I'm seen as a bad mother when I work, while my husband is a sacrificing father who looks after the kids. It is thoughtful that Mr Astrid Noklebye Heiberg fought against these positions 50 years ago. Now she can be a big-time representative, but she can't go on in her profession, and she can't be a settler. She's still fighting important games. Age is a bad indicator of function. When the People's Security Act came 50 years ago, most of them worked for them. Today we live over 20 years after retirement. Then we have to participate further. It is good management and a diverse and inclusive working life we need in the future, not discrimination and exclusion based on sex, age, ethnicity, function and diagnosis. Society is not sustainable if we do not allow more people to participate in the labour market. So we've committed ourselves to 5 pst. of all new employees in the State shall be part of the inclusion service. That is why we are going to introduce the programme and increase the funding for Jobjeansen. That is why we are continuing thousands of action sites and strengthening the system of permanent work. Therefore, we increase the use of wage subsidies and ensure better follow-up of Nav by young people. Young people now report good experiences. They've got a dialogue and an offer of activity. Too many people, this has meant a foot within. To make demands is to care. After following the media during the summer, and also several of the posts here today, I am concerned about our debate here on the Stortinget, because it seems that the Workers' Party will continue its black paint of Norwegian working life, and wrong diagnosis leads to wrong medication. There is a bad promise for inclusion, where the assumption is that we have employers who take employment risks, who create jobs, and who lower the threshold for those who are out of work. We must jointly promise Norwegian working life and at the same time include several, for Norway should still be one of the best countries to live and work in. Then let's not be fooled by the rhetoric of the left, which reminds us more of the fairy tale of the emperor's new clothes. It can lead to the mismedication of the times, and we will face an uncertain future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2806	Many people are talking about challenges today, but climate change is the biggest challenge of our time. There is no doubt about it, and with the drought summer behind us, we can only imagine what an additional temperature increase of 2-3 degrees will destroy: human beings who will be affected, the nature that will be destroyed, the food production that will become weary, the value creation that will be shattered, and an ever higher level of conflict in and between countries. Great climate change is devastating for everything we do, and everything we are. In addition, Norway has another challenge. Either we want it or we want it, the income from petroleum goes to the end. So we're facing a huge challenge both as a planet and as a nation. We must act quickly and make courageous choices. We must create a viable economy and a business that does not destroy nature and that contributes positively to the climate struggle. What, then, is the answer from the government? We heard today in the speech of the throne that they are going to cut climate emissions. Why has climate change then gone up under this government? They say to allow multiple workspaces to work. Why haven't we seen any growth in new green jobs in the last five years? They're investing separately in industry, they say. Why, then, does industrial production fail for several years with a favourable currency and good trading conditions? They're going to bet separately on the oceans, they said in the throne. Why, then, does the processing rate of fish go down? Why do they have massive cuts in support of port remediation, and why do young people get swept out of both marine and maritime industries? The problem is that we have a government that doesn't take this challenge seriously. They have no strategy, and the measures are small or trees on targets. The truth about the government's industrial policy is that they have spent the big money on tax cuts for the richest, which in spite of the government's desperate marketing of this as an industrial policy, does not strengthen Norwegian business. If industrial policies were important, the government would rather spend the money on retaining machine depreciation in industry, investing in large-scale carbon capture and storage, or put forward ambitious initiatives and strategies for individual industries. These are things SV has suggested repeatedly, but as the government party still votes down. Instead, over the last few years, the government has been obsessing about space workplaces, cutting off successful technology transfer programmes from the oil sector, and practically waging war with both farmers and fishermen supplying raw materials to Norway's largest mainland industry. Even the lists of speakers in today's debate illustrate the same thing: the politicians from the government parties shine with their absence. Only one of the industrial politicians from the government party is given five minutes of speech – that's Ingunn Foss – but without a line. To be fair, I have to say that there's one area where the government spends a lot of time and resources, and that's the most prominent bet on the Right and the Government. It's commercializing well-being. It has gone so far that investing in privatised well-being is now often more profitable than most of what we find in ordinary business. It's not only bad and expensive welfare policy, it's also bad business policy. Where was the government’s policy on nutrition? It's in place to crush the myth that the right-hand side is good at industrial policy, because that's never been the case in Norway. Success in Norwegian industry and industry has not come from policy on the right, rather on the right. Norwegian success stems from the insistence that value creation based on Norwegian labour and Norwegian resources will benefit society. The right side has always opposed this policy, and the resistance has been the same for all years: no to ensure national control of natural resources, no to strong trade unions and rights, no to state ownership. They have been on the wrong side in many of the most important chapters in Norwegian business history. They went against the introduction of the law of concession for hydroelectric power at the beginning of the 1900s, which would lead to a monumental national fossanum. In contrast, they were state control over the ownership of oil and gas on the base in the 1960s and 1970s, which would throw today's oil wealth into the hands of foreign oil companies. The same role they play today, too, now that the pad of government offices meet with the greatest challenge of our time. On behalf of SV, I would therefore like to urge a respondent with the state of play and the refusal of action to the government in business policy. I announce many new initiatives that aim to turn the Norwegian economy and industry. On behalf of nature and all future generations: we have to win the big fight against environmental damage, and we have to be able to create a healthy Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2825	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2830	I record that the representative Knag Fylkesnes wants to kill the myth of the Right as a nutritional party, and I think there were a lot of good points. As far as nutrition is concerned, my home country, Westfold, has a particularly warm and beating heart for our seafarers. The working party is working to avoid starting a race towards the bottom of Norwegian shipping, and I am concerned that Color Line can replace 700 of the employees on Kiel ferries with crews who can work for a salary that is impossible to live on in Norway. We are disappointed with the right-wing government, which will not take Norwegian seafarers seriously and ensure Norwegian shipping for the future. Will SV – also in the future – support the Labour Party in the fight for Norwegian seafarers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2837	Yeah, we're going to support that whole-heart fight, and what we're talking about here is a tradition that stretches back several thousand years in time. Norway has always been a maritime nation, we have the second longest coastline in the whole world, it has our activity along the coast in all our time. It's the coast that has made people initially settled here. It is the sea that is both our past and our future. What is now happening in the maritime industries is that the labour force is being pushed out because the pursuit of profit is increasing. We also see similar developments in the fishing industry, that there are also more and more impacts of foreigners. There's a direct danger for future Norway as a maritime nation, and I think it's not just an unwise policy for Norway in the future, but also a direct attack on our cultural history.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2842	The representative was present on many themes in his article, including: well-being, people and also some Norwegian history, and I wanted to keep going a little along that track. Right is, as most people know, concerned with people's freedom to choose how they want to live their lives, whether that's how we organize our family life, or who should care for us when we get older. This freedom of choice must also apply to life's views; we must show tolerance and respect for people's belief in different things. However, we must not forget that Norway's Christian heritage involves and has involved much more than what we actually perceive as religion. Much of what we perceive as best in Norwegian society is due to a thousand-year tradition of Christianity and Christian values. Even what we today perceive as universal values in Norway – love of neighbor, human dignity and equivalency – originates from the Christian cultural heritage. With this as a hindrance, I have the following questions, which I want the SV to answer: Why is it so necessary to remove all references to Christianity from kindergarten, school, yes, also from the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2849	It's completely wrong. Christianity is a fundamental part of our cultural heritage. He has also been a strong social bearer – not only for Norway, but for the entire Western world. Recognising it as a foundation in our society, SV has no problem with it. Our goal is not to secularize Norway in total, a kind of postmodern project where one is to eradicate all religion. It's never been a request from SV. What we want is to get a better balance in what we want, for example. is taught in school, that one also gets insight into other religions, that Christianity does not get too much weight. But we certainly don't want to do that, that the training done in school is so that one doesn't get an introduction to the foundation that Christianity is for the Norwegian community. It's a very fundamental part of our cultural heritage, to be passed on, but it's not to be confused.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2854	A short follow-up: The first representative says, does not relate to what he ends with. Is it really the case that there has been an excessive emphasis on the teaching of Christianity in Norwegian school? Is it really the case that there has been a need to tame the teaching of Christianity in Norwegian school? Why does SV think that the K in the KRLE subject must be removed and Christianity out of the Constitution so that we can have a better balance? I have never experienced Norway as an unbalanced society in terms of the place of the different religions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2860	As far as I'm concerned, the party of Kapur, Right, is also of the opinion that one should not engage in Christian preaching, mission work, school, but that one should provide information on what is the basis of our culture. It's open. And then the question is, how is that balance going to be? There are perhaps some of the most interesting discussions in Norwegian politics – how to pass on the Christian element of Norwegian politics, and how to facilitate transparency in what is the foundation of our cultural heritage, and at the same time facilitate our gaining insight into other religions. When it comes to it, it's about creating a society with mutual respect, no matter what the background one has, regardless of religious practice, and then it's absolutely fundamental that we have knowledge of it. But, as I said, Norway is going to move away from telling history about what is the foundation of our society, never has our SV's meaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2867	Years ago, the jets got fish from the coastal fleet to help the coast to have work when the coastal fleet was unable to deliver. For a long time, we haven't seen this fish delivered to these farms, and large parts of the coast are weathering. Much of the trawler goes straight to production in other countries, and we lose thousands of jobs. In Finnmark – with its huge quantities of fish – there are increasing numbers of municipalities without the right to harvest the resources located just outside the living room door. For years, the government’s policy has systematically driven a demise, which is not only shameful and illegal, but also unheard of in Norway’s history. The central part will bring the fish back to the coast, so that we can bring life to the coastal communities. Does SV want to be in on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2874	SV is very aware of that, and I think the developments that have been in the Central Party in recent years have been very positive. We're now in a situation where we've given a large part of the fishing resources to a bunch of marine teams, through the so-called obligation system. The starting point was very simple, it was that the trawlers could fish cod and hay if they delivered the fish to the industry on land. That's the one condition one had. It's just 10 pst. which is today delivered where it is to be delivered. Otherwise, they deliver in exactly the shape they want. It's a regular run that's happened, a historical run. It's about huge resources, hundreds of thousands of tons of cod and haze. Now it's time, we in SV think, that we take a given with this system – and there's something else that has our government's policy – but the given must make sure that the fish comes back where he belongs, to the coast. So one has to take the fish back, a rebound of fish resources to the people along the coast of the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2881	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2886	The most fundamental task of the state is to secure its citizens. That's the whole starting point of why people seek together in a society. Security and preparedness are therefore high on the agenda of this government. We have shown that through our period of government, we are able to give priority to police and preparedness. This government has provided a historic promise to the Norwegian police. We have provided a significant staffing in the Norwegian police force. In fact, police staff have increased by about 2 600 years' work, of which nearly 1,500 are police. This means that we are on track to achieve the target of two police officers per 1000 inhabitants by 2020. Under this government, police coverage has increased from 1.71 at the end of 2013 to 1.91 in the first quarter of 2018. Before I find out that the reform is on track, it is good to remember why we are implementing it. This government is not implementing a police reform because we want to centralize, not because we are saving money or having a reform for the sake of the reform. The reason we carry out the biggest police reform in Norwegian history is that society and the crime scene have changed. The old repeats of the local police have been replaced by hardcore gangs with an international network. Professional criminals who previously committed crime across municipal borders are now committing crime across national borders. Infringements against children are no longer committed not only within the house's four walls, but also on the Internet. When crime changes, the police also have to change. As I see it, the biggest problem with the police reform is that it has not been implemented before. Close-up reform is a major reform. The government has followed up with funds. It is demanding to carry out the largest reform ever in the Norwegian police force. It will take some time before we see all the effects of the grips that have been done to improve working methods and provide better tools to the police. Nevertheless, we are already seeing the results of the police reform. Since 2011, the average duration of treatment has been reduced by 11 days, while the percentage of clearance has increased by 4 percentage points. The number of non-prosecution cases over three months has been reduced by over 3000. According to the Police Directorate, the number of cases that have been closed due to procedural capacity and where there has been a suspicion in the case has been reduced by a total of 34 pst from 2013 to 2017. A lot remains, but I want to remind you that the structure first got in place this spring, and that we have to give it some time before we get the best results in place. During 2018 we had a debate on recriminalism, especially in Oslo. We must avoid Oslo having the same big city problems as we see in Stockholm and Copenhagen. Oslo is one of the last major cities in Europe to stop the development of criminal gangs. In other words, we're going to succeed in what maybe no one else has done. Then there must be both hard and soft instruments. We're going to fight the gangs, and we're going to prevent the recruitment of next generation gang members. It requires that we give priority to the whole chain – from child protection to conflict advice with youth follow-up and juvenile punishment and prevention police efforts in the local environment. At the same time, we're going to strengthen the sharp sections of the police, like Kripos and Ecokrim, to take the hard-boiled criminals and the backers, who make a lot of money. We have to use the entire toolbox, and it's not sure we've been good enough before. This is why the Ministry of Justice has, through the summer, challenged various actors in the criminal justice chain on which measures contribute to the fight against gang and youth crime. The actors have responded, and we have received suggestions and recordings for, among others. new reactions and legal remedies, including: how to ensure the more effective implementation of youth penalties, the ban on membership of criminal gangs and the more effective withdrawal of values. These are issues that we are now working on, and that we will consider coming back to Stortinget with. I therefore look forward to an exciting harvest session in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2913	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2918	I want to start by saying that I thought it was nice that the Minister of Justice at the end of his speech took on self-criticism, that there are actually things that could have been better done. But in the agreement on police reform, we agreed on a promise to the citizens. We wrote us in detail in the setting. This part of the deal was very central to the Workers' Party to ensure the police, and I'm assuming that the Council of State is well aware of this part of the deal. This part of the equation I think is clearly broken. My question to the Council of State is, doesn't the Council of State mean that this promise to the inhabitants was important? And if the Council of State disagrees with the fact that it is broken, does the Council have an example of this being followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2923	I would first like to remind you that the important and major parts of the police reform have been put in place this spring. For many, the structure came into being now on 1 June. This does not mean that the whole reform is in place, but that means that the important organisational grips are in place, and people are to be placed where they should be. I fully agree that there are still a lot of things to be done, but I also want to remind you that we only have a few months behind us from the last things were in place. There should be police contact in all municipalities, they should have follow-up talks with the municipalities, and we should listen to the citizens. What we see so far in some of the measurements is that the police have great confidence – yes, actually more trust. Public confidence in the police has increased during the reform. I think that in itself is quite impressive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2928	I register that I have not received an answer to my question. But in addition to the agreement we made, we made some decisions here in the Stortinget in 2017 to remedy a rather poor implementation of the agreement. It was that the government had to follow its own agreement – it should have been unnecessary to adopt – and ensure that the remaining LEN's offices were strengthened effectively after the structural changes. The situation in the country now is that implementation is quite far from that decision. On the contrary, I hear from the police that there is no political signal to follow up the decisions we have made. So my question is, what kind of responsibility does the Minister of Justice have for the decisions we have taken to be followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2933	The representative does not explain what decisions she is considering, except for one point, and that is strengthening the bilgeman. Otherwise, it is very good to know which proposals and which agreements they believe are broken. I believe that the most important thing is to strengthen police force. Then it's not necessarily a sign or a building with the name Länsmannskontoret that's the important thing. The important thing is that the police force in the districts, too, is better and able to deal with a new type of crime, which perhaps the old Länsmannskontoret did not deal with earlier, but which is growing today, unfortunately. Among other things, we have had a strong growth in the number of sexual offences. There's a type of crime that requires competence, experience and effort to solve, and that's what we've been through, among other things. the children's houses.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2941	In almost all police districts, very difficult conditions have been reported over the summer – crisis conditions are described as – as a consequence of police reform, because the economic framework is extremely tight. Serious acts of violence are not investigated, the balance increases, sick leave increases, and it is reported that employees on leave are not replaced by economics. A local team leader in the police lawyers said to the NRK this summer, ‘It’s naive to believe that the police reform will succeed with the existing resource and manning levels.’ We in the Central Party have constantly warned against the police reform. When it was first implemented, we have at least been a strong critic of the underlying economic framework. We believe that there has been too little follow-up with financial resources. Then the question to the Minister of Justice: Does the Minister of Justice think that police reform can succeed with the existing level of resources and staffing?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2948	Let me first remind you that we've strengthened the police by 1.8 billion. kr since this government took over. 2 600 annual works have been added. So it's not like there's a lack of resources, but I understand that in many places you should want even more policemen and even more resources. But there's been a historical commitment and a historic boost for the police that I think is hard to find. Then I also see the press releases that have arrived. I also applied for a little ‘crisis’ and ‘police’, and I found out that there were quite a lot of headlines – a significant police crisis in the country through a large public meeting, 104 000 cases were pending, etc. The problem is that many of these statements are already before the police reform and while the Senter Party was in government. So you don't have to make a picture that everything was better before. Also, every summer there was a call for crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2955	I'm pretty worried when we get a look in the NRK this summer that trustees in 11 out of 12 police districts report very serious conditions. I think it is a bit serious that the Minister of Justice does not take it seriously. It is constantly highlighted that so many new employees have arrived – 2,600 new employees. Over 1,000 of them are in POD offices. But when, despite having 2,600 new police officers, despite 1.8 billion dollars. kr. What the Minister of Justice is talking about are crisis situations, isn't there anything about the fact that the police are poorly organised after the reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2960	First of all, I think I want to invite the representative on a trip to POD to see if she can find over 1,000 people there. Then again, I would like to remind you that these posts with which we have strengthened are distributed beyond the police districts. All police districts today have more police officers than they had before the reform was carried out, and all police districts have more police officers than before this government took over. So it's been a real strength. But there have also been developments in some criminal cases that are very demanding. That's the one thing I think we should bring. The second is, as I said, that the reform has worked for a few months. I would like – and I am pleased to – to take this debate when the reform has got something more going on. I'm impatient, too, and I don't think everything is good or good enough, but I'm absolutely sure it'll get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2967	I almost feel sorry for the Minister of Justice. He gets a lot of criticism now, and here comes mine too. It is not true that youth crime is the biggest, increasing problem in Norway today. It's not at all. Where the police now see the highest proportion of increase in reports, it is about violence in close relationships, rape and sexual crimes against children. Only the first six months of this year came close to 400 reports of child rape under 14 years of age – 400 rapes of children under 14 years of age! Despite a historic uprising in the police, as the Minister of Justice says, the police report that they do not have the capacity to handle this. Only one in three cases of family violence is the police able to get to the court — one in three cases. That means that two out of three family violence cases are not brought before the court. Then I wonder, because this has happened under the guard of this Minister of Justice: what has gone wrong during the term of the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2972	I am also very concerned about developments in violence in close relationships, and about the violent increase in the number of sexual offences. Because there is no lack of capacity, but there is a strong growth in these areas, especially sexual offences, that have grown by 66 pst. That means we have to reallocate resources there. We have. We have invested heavily in the children's homes, and it is provided with our own means of working with violence in close relationships. I am also concerned about some of the rape figures we see, especially among minors. The important things we can do to reveal this and fight it lie in the police reform, by creating units where you have specialists, resources and skills to reveal it. It is also worrying in the light of juvenile delinquency, which has had a good development for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2979	Both the Minister of Justice and I have reacted strongly to the shocking, well-documented reports VG has had on the Addictology Academy and their treatment of vulnerable, dependent people. Yes, the Minister of Justice has even called it totally unacceptable, and well-known lawyers have told VG that these are criminal threats, reckless behaviour, criminal coercion, prosecution, etc. They stress that the police can investigate possible criminal offences on their own and view reports and cases in the context. Nevertheless, the police have now attributed at least 15 reviews to the Addictology environment, largely due to capacity. And they're still responding that they don't have the opportunity to prioritize this case complex. My question is: what does the Council of State think that the police say they can't give priority to a matter of such social importance? What does he think about not taking their own initiatives? And what does he think this says about the resource situation in the police, especially in the Oslo police?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2986	It is not natural for me to comment on individual matters. But let's say it like this: Things with threats and threats of violence should be investigated. That's my position, and I've also expressed that to the media. Oslo Police have had significant access to resources. But those are the ones who are going to give priority to the different issues, because I'm not sitting in the political areas and can say that one thing is more important than the other. But I'll be surprised if the Oslo police don't do anything about any of these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2991	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e2996	Yesterday, it was said that Norway is characterised by small differences, relative economic equality and equality for certain fundamental rights. It is a political responsibility that it remains the same. A political area where you have seen challenges with this very thing, is where humans and animals live closely on predators. Many of these areas are defined as grazing priority areas, where just grazing animals and food production are to go ahead of predators. I appreciate that those who live in predatory areas do not experience their fundamental rights, such as: security is ensured. In this way, some voices and some groups in this country become less valuable than others. It creates inequality, and it is a serious democratic problem if this development continues. It is now up to the government to decide whether they will take this seriously or not. This summer, we have seen a major rapporteur's appeal, in which more than half of Norway's rapporteurs have reacted to the government's inefficient predatory policy. The centre party has today presented two proposals for representatives dealing with the effective harvesting of predators in areas defined as grazing priority areas. The difficulty of harvesting predators in grazing priority areas, so bureaucratic and so little practical, is difficult to understand. In Trøndelag, the bear attacks are this season among the worst in many years. Over 200 sheep have been documented killed by bears so far. It is the number of bear infestations in grazing priority areas that have significantly increased in recent years. What is the answer from environmental bureaucracy? It's expanding the management area of the bear. This is in direct contradiction with the 2011 Robbery Agreement. This summer I visited the municipality of Bardu after the farmers in the area were hit by a large attack by the bear. It makes the impression of meeting people who each day have to fight for their livelihood, and who have to find their animals badly injured and killed in such a way. In 30 minutes, over 20 sheep were taken by the bear in Bardu. It's amazing to me that you don't intervene from a political point of view, but you let the department and the director train the case. It took five weeks for effective measures to be taken, such as: Dog. Then the bear had killed over 60 sheep. It led to five weeks of enormous extra work for many when it came to supervision, as well as that this was during harvest. Once again, we are witnessing an extremely bureaucratic and heavy-rooted management of predators, where predators are constantly favored over domestic animals and Norwegian food production. This happens in grazing priority areas. Many nutritionists are now assessing whether they're able to continue, because it takes so much energy and is so hard to work against the systems all the time. Today we see great challenges with the withdrawal of both bear, yerv and wolf. The fact that the government does not follow the predatory game deal, does not follow the two-part goal – yes, largely not follow up the decision of the Great Britain – is actually more than predators. It's basically about people's trust in the authorities. When the state changes the rules of the game along the way, when the state exercises power without democratically anchored justification, the confidence of those who govern the country is weakened. Can the government live on the fact that parts of the population feel that their experiences are not respected, that their arguments are less important, and that their rights are less valuable? Can we live on the fact that the robberies deal is broken every year on a number of points? The center party can't do that. That is why we have today tabled a proposal for a representative, for which we hope we will have a majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3013	The aim of the Health Policy of the Workers Party is good health and quality of life for all. Good health services shall be equivalent throughout the country. In our common healthcare service, you will be helped if you are poor or rich, if you have a doctorate or are a primary school graduate. But the Institute of Public Health has revealed that the social health inequalities in this country are increasing. In parts of the country, people are unsure whether they have a good enough ambulance offer when the help is urgent at all. Hospitals have to cut budgets, and the quality of services varies greatly from one municipality to another in the care of the elderly. We also have a fixed medical system, which is the very gold in health care, that cracks in the joints. There are tasks to be solved, and government solutions are bureaucratic attempts, such as: State care for the elderly. We in the Workers' Party will give the municipalities money to deal with the elderly with the need for health care, but the right parties in the government insist on an additional bureaucratic link to give more money to six municipalities. The government's solution is also to give private hospitals a suction tube into the hospital budget. Connected with the underfunding of our common hospitals, they make sure that the ability to manoeuvre in the system determines who gets the best help. Stortingsmelden Leve his whole life – A quality reform for the elderly, as the Minister of Older People himself said at the launch: no new appropriations and no new paragraphs. But we have some carrots -- not a whole field, but a nice bunch. Honesty can be praised, but the quality promise is lacking. Many good examples can be found in the message, as an inspirational catalogue. 13 of the 15 municipalities that the Senior Minister drew up in the launch are also Arbeiderparti-steered municipalities. The government promised us an older reform, but what we got was buttons and gloss pictures. And the geographical differences will still increase. These priorities do not equip our common healthcare for the future. On the contrary, the growing number of service providers is frustrated by the lack of political will to address the major challenges facing us as a community. The number of unemployed young people almost doubled in seven years. Nearly 70,000 children and young people need treatment for mental illness. The proportion of older people in the population will double by 2060, and the need for competent health professionals will also double. That is why the Workers' Party will continue to work for our common healthcare. We come up with concrete proposals to increase the quality of care for the elderly in the country, linked to the resources that municipalities need to implement it. We're going to fight for official control in healthcare and can dimension them according to the needs of the population and not according to people's ability to pay. We're going to fight against unsocial cuts in dental health, in treatment and in reimbursements, and we're going to fight for a fixed system that's forward-looking. Last but not least, we will continue to promote the broad, universal public health measures, those that reach everyone – school food, free fruit and green in school, an extension of school health services, mental health in school, alcohol prevention and lowthreshold mental health services. Prevention and public health must receive as much attention as hospitals and waiting times. The government says to promote solitude in the new public health announcement. Then there are the broad measures we need — doing something active, doing something together, doing something meaningful. Social health inequalities are unfair and unfortunately increasing. In the Labour Party, we take up the fight against them, but unfortunately the solutions of the right-wing parties will increase the differences and leave more to the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3031	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3036	I want to grips with something that Kjerkol and the Workers' Party have talked about lately, and that is that free treatment choices and spending their own money on care services are called snuff privatisation. I think it is little double moral, as long as the Labour Party's own leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, has stated that he thought it was quite ok that his own father lived in a private hospital. For people who need help with, for example: Russ and psychiatry problems, choosing a treatment site may be a matter of survival or not – or, as Anne Wahl Kaldestad, who received help from Fanafjellet, said to Bergen’s Official Journal: "This clinic saved my life. My whole family has a new life." [[...]] For example, without free treatment, Anne Wahl would not want Kaldestad or all those who are assisted by it. Karmsund ABR Center in Rogaland, survived. Will the Workers' Party and the representative Kjerkol still complete free treatment choices, which means so much to those involved? Should not the elderly themselves be allowed to decide what to spend their money on, as long as we politicians provide a good public health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3050	I don't think I called free treatment options for snuff privatisation; it's a pretty open privatisation. It is stated as the purpose of the scheme: to provide private treatment providers with access to Norwegian patients entitled to treatment in Norwegian hospitals. So that's exactly what I don't think I've accused the Health Minister of sneaking around with. We believe that there are better ways to spend the money, which ensures help in our common healthcare. That you have met patients who have benefited from the scheme, I think it is absolutely right, but it is still a very small part of Norwegian patients. This does nothing to meet the major health challenges, i.e. patients who need a lot of health care over a long life. It's still just a tiny percentage of patients. We have also visited clinics where the public hospitals have had to reduce their capacity, and this is not how a larger offer has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3057	Firstly, the concept of ‘snick privatisation’ is derived from the Workers’ Party’s own website, from a statement that Kjerkol made to the media a few days ago. Secondly, good public welfare is a public responsibility, and I am sure that we are in complete agreement on that. But at the same time, the non-socialist parties have been very close together to introduce the patient's health system, and a key factor there is just that you have to be able to choose for yourself. I do not agree that this is insignificant. More than 10,000 people have used free treatment choices, 280 people in the field of drugs and psychiatry. It's not insignificant. This is life saved, and what I believe is absolutely essential that we take care of and ensure that these receive an offer. It's a little bit how to look at private providers: the working party is talking more and more about private welfare professionals. I would like to ask Kjerkol: Do you think your firm and your dentist are a private welfare profitor, or is it only the type of services that the Workers' Party approves, which you think should be private?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3066	The President must remember that the speech must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3071	Here it was very different. The term ‘snick privatisation’ stated a few days ago on a question from the Evening Post on whole-private nursing homes, where residents pay for all the services themselves. It was the quote from Kjerkol, not the free choice of treatment. So we've at least put it in place. I think that the decision-makers are great health professionals in our common healthcare service, and I should actually like to see more from the representative's party stand up for, including in the government, and that a little earlier started. We are in a situation today where several municipalities are at risk of not being able to meet the needs of the inhabitants of their own firm. It's the way that they work too much, and you can't recruit new ones. This is a known challenge that the Minister of Health has finally agreed with the trade union to partially solve, but we have a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3080	In the part of the country I come from, and in the part of the country where Kjerkol comes from, there has been a recent discussion about ambulance services and response time. Several sites weaken the offer, and the response time will increase. For example, we just see in my home state, in Senja, that the response time will increase to over 50 minutes. I understand that people feel insecure. I also know that the representative Kjerkol shares this concern. But when the Central Party has made proposals for, among other things, I also wonder how the Workers' Party proposes such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3085	I share the concern of the representative Sandra Borch about what is now happening in many parts of the country, namely that you are discussing where to place the ambulance bases, and you are looking at the response times that have been achieved. Unfortunately, the response times achieved are depressing reading. A lot of people are beyond it. We in the Workers' Party believe that it is very important to have a direction for the service that also provides security for the population. That's what the response times serve. If I had been convinced that legislating the response times would achieve better goals for them, the Workers' Party would do that. I'm not. What's happening today is that the health professionals moving out to the events are not doing well enough to prioritize what's most urgent in medical terms. That's what we need to seek to achieve, and we want to maintain the response time as a target. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3092	The President must ask that speaking time be observed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3097	I heard Kjerkol's posts, and there is a lot there that we in SV agree with. However, the representative was also concerned with concrete proposals for better care for the elderly. The Sykepleien magazine carried out a survey last year that shows that due to lack of time and staffing, addictive, sedative sleeping medications are often given to elderly people, to seriously ill people and to those with developmental disabilities, simply because they do not have time to provide the care they need. These are people who are lonely and scared and often have great pains. But they get pills. SV believes that we need to spend a lot of money on such care rather than on caring for the richest. We have suggested before that we need a staffing standard to cover up many of the professional groups that need to be, so that you do not use pills instead of caring. Does the Labour Party agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3104	The working party very much agrees that increased basic staffing is important in order to achieve better quality of service. The freedom of each place of employment is also important in order to be able to plan the agenda well and take into account those who live there and receive services every day. If a standard of personnel leads us there, I'm not sure. It's going to be different how big the units are. The municipalities also organise their offer according to the needs they know. But that there is a direct link between increased basic staffing and the quality of the service, we fully agree, and then we like to discuss norms with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3110	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3115	In defining today's policy solutions, it is important to have a long-term perspective, not just a few years, but a generation perspective. The main project of the right is to build a sustainable welfare society. It means that we have to create the values before we can divide. We need to create new jobs, get more jobs, include everyone in society and meet climate goals. It is in this perspective that we must also see the government's commitment to transport. Together with the Christian People's Party, the government parties have carried out the efforts of the times on the road and on the track. The transport budget has increased by over 60 p.m., and together we have put in place a national transport plan for the next 12 years of over 1000 billion. kr, which ensures the necessary development of new infrastructure but also continues the considerable effort we have had to maintain and renew. For the first time in several decades, the maintenance set run is reduced. The transport effort has been absolutely necessary to upgrade the infrastructure. We do so by increasing the budget, but perhaps even more importantly: we are implementing important reforms that will provide citizens with both shorter travel time, better accessibility and increased road safety. Here's an important distinction. Where this government is thinking new and reforming, the Labour Party, the Center Party, and the SV are opposed. Take, for example: Road Company: New Roads show that they can build smarter and save as much as 30 billion. kr on the portfolio allocated to them. This means that we release money for other important investments, such as health, children and young people, defence and preparedness. Green transport sector change is about developing new and environmentally friendly technologies while at the same time facilitating more people to use collective transport, bicycles and corridors in their everyday journeys. We're doing the collective vows of the times. An increasing number of trains, buses and lanes. From 2016 to 2017, there was a historical increase in the number of collective trips of 6.3 pst., against an increase of 0.9 pst. on the way. The travelling flows to the train as never before. During the period 2012 to 2016, the number of passengers on the railway increased by nearly 20 pst. A large proportion of passenger transport takes place in urban areas, and the aim is to maximise the use of such passenger transport by means of public transport, bicycles and corridors, both in order to achieve climate objectives and to build a good urban environment. That's why we're building out InterCity, and we're facilitating the sustainable development of our biggest cities. In the national transport plan, it is set at 66 billion. to measures to facilitate this development in nine selected urban areas. There is a potential to increase the use of collective transport in districts too, but then we have to think again. In Sauda they have tried a new solution, using smaller buses ordered for use over the network. The bus routes are not fixed, but are adapted to the needs of the users. This is a good example of how we can use new technologies to make collective solutions more relevant across the country, which means increased customer satisfaction, more users and even more reasonable solutions. It is a goal that more of the goods are to be transported by rail or boat, both for environmental reasons and to reduce the load on the road network. The freight analysis showed that there is a transfer potential of 5 to 7 million. tonnes. The Government has established an incentive scheme for the transfer of goods by sea. So far it seems to give good results, and a similar scheme is being considered for the railway. At the same time, we will use considerable resources over the next few years to strengthen the railway, both with our own actions for terminals and crossing tracks, and by continuing to raise efforts on maintenance and renewal. But if we are to get more goods by rail, we also need to facilitate the transport of goods by train beyond Sweden. In fact, the fourth rail package of the EU is about standardising rail in Europe so that it becomes a real alternative to freight and cross-border transport. It's surprising that parties who otherwise talk hot about the railway don't see this point. For the right, it is important to implement effective measures. We need to motivate people to choose environmentally friendly and apply new low- and zero-emission technologies. Electric car policy is a good example of how, through political incentives, we can help more people choose a zero-emission vehicle. The sale of electric cars is already one third of the total new car sales in 2018. The goal is that all new car sales of cars should be zero emissions by 2025, and we're on the right track. Another example is our ferries. Over the next few years, as many as 50 to 60 ferries will have chargeable battery solutions. It is good for the environment, and it creates new jobs in Norway. We are doing well to convert the transport sector into low and zero emissions. It has not been done overnight, but we already see that the policy is working, and that the emissions of transport have begun to decline. History has shown that new challenges are being solved with new technologies. This is most true in the transport sector, and in the years to come, we will see that new technology provides a better and more sustainable offer both for us as travellers and for freight transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3143	One of our greatest challenges has been and is still that we have too high immigration to Norway, and that we are not successful enough with integration. To signal that Norway will receive more is neither solidarity nor heartwarming, as the signals can lead more young people into a dangerous flight served by only cynical human traffickers. Norway must have both a strong rhetoric and a consistent strict policy on asylum. The Party of Presidents will be the guarantor of this. If we are to have an opportunity to maintain a safe and prosperous society with value-creating and well-integrated citizens, we must have a more stringent refugee and immigration policy. In particular, family immigration must be tightened. In Sweden, poor integration has resulted in whole urban areas being affected by crime and unemployment. It starts in the small with mob bars and look and ends with car fires and no go-zones. We don't want Swedish states in Norway. For example, there is no human right to live in Oslo, Norway's most expensive city. The Progress Party believes that it is necessary to put an end to the settlement of refugees in press areas. If you cannot support yourself, you must accept that you have to stay in places with much lower costs. Effective return of people without legal residence in Norway is a very important part of a strict and fair asylum and immigration policy. We've done a good job here in the last few years, but we can't rest. New figures show that we spend a lot of money on people who are looking for happiness in Norway but do not have the right to stay. The laws we adopt, the signals we give, and the share that is being transported, determine how much money we should spend on this – the means that should be used for people who are really in need. Lower immigration and the contribution of immigrants to the labour market are essential for the sustainability of society and for our ability to take care of our welfare society. We must never forget that. We see that the arrangements we have made make it possible to succeed in Norway. Even I live in Lørenskog, which has a very high proportion of immigrants. In my local way, I can read about property transfers and see that there is a very high proportion of immigrants buying their own home. This shows me that with hard work on the part of each person, it is fully possible to succeed in Norway, get a job, buy housing and participate in society in line with the rest of the population. Many children and young people with immigrant background are doing well in school. Norwegian-born immigrants have good school results, and girls in particular do well. But we also have other figures that show that the employment of immigrants is very low and frighteningly low for immigrant women. We also have significant challenges with social control and honorary culture. Social control and honour culture are the greatest obstacle for too many, and we must be extremely clear that this is not accepted in our society. Migrant women and young immigrants have asked us for help to combat this, and the Progress Party is setting up. Everyone must have the right and the ability to make their own choices and live a free life. We're going to have zero tolerance for coercion, sexual mutilation and violence, and we're going to find the forgotten kids who never meet in the health center. We're going to promise the forgotten women who are not registered anywhere, by offering them participation in Jobjeansen. Job opportunities show good results; therefore, we are further expanding this scheme. The government is working on an integration promise. It is important that we now find the key to why so many fail, when it also turns out that there are many who succeed. That is why we must, among other things, improve the introduction system, and we have an obligation to participate in training in Norwegian for residents in receptions of asylum together with a basic introduction into Norwegian society. We will impose stricter requirements on municipalities and beneficiaries of social assistance who, because of lack of language skills, are not self-held. The government's integration policy is based on four areas of action: education and qualification, work, everyday integration and the fight against social control. Second-generation immigrants have higher employment than the first generation, and many of these feel strongly associated with Norway. The Progress Party is committed to succeeding in integration policy. For us, it is important to stress that it is not about everything we can offer them, but even more about what effort they themselves put into it. I have met so many immigrants who themselves point out the importance of making demands, and their message is very clear: Norway is a country where everyone can succeed – if you just want it enough yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3166	The starting point for the debate on the throne is the census, where the government presents its priorities and visions for the next year. This year's speech was not exactly rich in new ideas, nor was it as Dagbladet commented: It was more gray than blue. As an educational politician, there was little to tackle the census, knowledge was a surprising little part of this year's census, and there was a lack of new initiatives. The working party wants a school where the students learn more and thrive better. We believe that in this throne the government could take up e.g. the situation of the youngest pupils, five-year-olds and six-year-olds. Now we see that there are many parents, teachers and researchers who are concerned about the lack of play, too much sitting down, lack of activity, stress and mental problems in school everyday. We believe that this can be solved through both early efforts, by subduing the pressure in an unsustainable test system and by providing more play for the youngest students. The school has a very important job in balancing differences and ensuring equal opportunities for students. Efforts at professional and professional work should be a natural part of any persuasion and persuasion debate. We need many more proud professionals in the future. Still, there's too much apostasy; there's too much social difference in who falls from. For the Workers' Party, one of the most important investments we can make as a society is to invest in trades and professions. One of the educational issues mentioned in the census was competence reform. It is an important reform for individuals, businesses and society. But the truth about government's competence reform is that so far we have seen only a small drop in a reform – not a complete act, an overall reform, which the Workers' Party believes is needed. We should already have a much stronger framework for an offensive commitment to competence. That is why the Labour Party has proposed, inter alia: a competence fund to ensure that the large investments needed are started. We want a comprehensive system to support, first of all, those who need to change their jobs due to digitisation, automation and change in their working life, who support those who get their jobs changed, and to secure those who are going from school to into their working life. For the Workers' Party, it is obvious that it is the responsibility of the community to ensure people's knowledge and competence, including in the workplace. There's nothing the individual should be left alone about. That's why we disagree with the government, and we say that we want to give people the right to empowerment through working life. We want to make it clear right now that the state is going to provide funding as monsaries, and to cooperate with the parties on frameworks and agreements that ensure this in all sectors. This is how we invest in the most important domain of Norway: people and their skills. Finally, in today's debate several claims from the Right and the Progress Party have been made that the Workers' Party will municipalise the welfare, force out private. It is quite clear that these parties are on their own scare-action before the date of November 2. The Labour Party rejects the commercialisation of well-being, because the political road choice is either that large groups, preferably international, take on more and more of the well-being, that welfare decisions are taken at corporate board meetings – or that decisions are taken at municipal board meetings, that voters and elected representatives of municipalities are in the driving seat, take responsibility for the development of services and have control over both quality and economy. In municipalities where the Workers' Party rules, we just do it. Our elected representatives take more control of the services on which the population depends. We are clear on the direction choice, just as the Youth Organisation of the Advance Party in the Evening Post on 5 September is clear on the contrary. The desire of the Progress Party's youth is as follows: ‘Privateise everything from prisons and hospitals to universities. Remove the fear of the people. Introduce private health and pension insurance – and remove all cultural support.’ For the Workers' Party, this is very simple, we want a strong public well-being for everyone, supplemented by private, non-profit suppliers. And we want well-being to develop closely on those who are to receive it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3188	The government party, together with the Christian People's Party here in Stortinget, has managed the country safely for several years. Our community is attractive. Nevertheless, the biggest challenge in Norway in the long term is to secure the welfare community as we know it today. It's about taking responsibility for our citizens and the coming generations. Norway is a country of high trust between people, and society is characterized by relatively small differences between people most. The consequences of climate change, war and unrest in other parts of the world will continue to pose asylum and migration challenges. Millions of people want a better future. But then it's important to think that immigration is one of the most important reasons for increasing differences between people most. The big difference goes between those who get work and those who don't get work. Norway is a small country, and we want to create opportunities for everyone. That means we must have control of the asylum and refugee dreams of Norway. There are millions of people we have felt sorry for, but nevertheless – the ability of society to integrate and get work must be governing for how many we can accept. So, of course, we need to use help and other tools to help all those who are not allowed to leave. The mix of poverty, organised crime, elective extremism and weak institutions and countries often provides groundwork for poor security, instability and conflict. Climate change has contributed to a steady increase in traditional agriculture. These challenges must be met by targeted and coordinated action and increased presence of local government and world society. The objective of stabilising countries and strengthening living conditions for the population will contribute to less migration and less need for asylum. Being able to seek asylum is a personal right that needs to be protected, but collective migration challenges have to be addressed in other ways: Women’s participation in employment and social life needs to be increased, and more children – especially girls – need to complete education. Regional and national actors in countries with challenges must work for security and peace. The fight against terrorist financing, criminal networks and human trafficking must be intensified. The fight against corruption must be strengthened, and important institutions such as the police and the judiciary must be supported. Human rights must be respected and access to health measures increased. Value creation and employment must be increased, and that is best done by free trade in the world. We don't need any policies that support illegal migration. Nor do we need a policy where most of the resources are spent on migrants in new countries, when there is a significant increase in the use of resources in the home countries. To lure people into perilous seaglasses across the Mediterranean Sea is unethical. Real border control must be established. We do not need policies that prioritise the immigrants with the most resources to pay human smugglers. Norway has contributed a great deal in several regions internationally, e.g. in Africa and Syria. In Syria, Prime Minister Erna Solberg's commitment has resulted in over 10 billion. We have taken 8 000 Syrian refugees over the last few years. The politics of the Government and the Christian People's Party in this area have been farsighted. We cannot say that about the new Labour Party policy. They will negotiate with the municipalities – they say – the extent of refugees to be accepted before they can decide on a national target. I myself have our spokespersons, local politicians, and I have experienced that a local authority has instructed the municipality to accept a larger amount of refugees than the more people in the municipality thought were responsible, considering the ability to integrate and obtain work. This is not good. It is also with infidelity that I see that the Labour Party wants to create a new bureaucracy that will travel around the world and approve the Korean language. Let me make it very clear that the Right will fight with beaks and claws so that children will not be sent against their will on the Qur'anicular, where there are both coercion, punishment, power and, in the worst case, perhaps circumcision. Traveling around the world and accepting the Korean language will require a lot of resources. They may also need to be followed up in their daily routine. What the Labour Party is proposing here is simple and simple solutions based on complex problem settings. The whole proposal is quite hairy. The government is listening to a proposal that can help one refuse to leave for children who are at risk of being sent to such Koreans. Preventing negative social control of children is, of course, an urgent matter to follow up in practice. There is a need for coordination between public authorities, and the government has thus strengthened the system of minority advisors. It is only through knowledge of facts and what policies really work that we can shape and improve our policies, not through feelings and rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3233	I'm proud to represent a party that takes the individual seriously, who believes that people are able to think for themselves and therefore want to make their own choices. The party of progress is convinced that all citizens want to be the head of their own lives. That is why the fight for freedom of choice is so important to us. Throughout our lives, we parents try to teach our children how to reflect on issues in society, be aware that all the choices you make, also have some consequences. Children need to acquire information and learn to make their own decisions. Nevertheless, it's not like we have a society that allows all the inhabitants to make their own choices. Too often politicians and bureaucrats find that it is better that we make decisions on behalf of citizens that are strictly unnecessary for us to take. We have to have some faith that our citizens are able to think for themselves, that they deserve to decide more in their own lives. When our children reach the age of 12-13, they are allowed to decide which choices to have in secondary school. It'll be one of their first meetings to decide about their own education. When young people go to high school, not all states let them decide which school they want to go to. We believe that this is a pity in the Progress Party, because the motivation for youth can depend entirely on the fact that they are allowed to decide for themselves which school they want to attend, because the job offers are not the same in all the schools. The party of progress will therefore have a free school choice throughout the country. The Progress Party will also fight for the right to decide which kindergarten our children should go to. Through the Swedish Children's Court Agreement and the Progress Party concluded 15 years ago, we agreed to release private operators into the market to ensure full development of the sector and to create a diversity of offers. Today, we have full child care coverage and a variety of offers, where all parents can choose for themselves what is best for themselves and theirs among municipal and private kindergartens. Some of them have food, good opening hours, offer a Christian anchoring, sport or culture. The variety is great, and freedom of choice is appreciated. Half of the country’s kindergartens are private, and there is no other welfare sector in Norway where users and families are more satisfied. This will reach SV and other socialist and communist parties reverse, and it worries me that even the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party consider cooperating with them. We should pay tribute to the private actors for the efforts they have made for their children, for their freedom of choice and for the quality of their work. When the public has to compete with the private, it results in everyone getting better. 95 pst. By parents with children in kindergarten, they say they are happy with the offer they receive. The private cuts a little bit better, but many public kindergartens also do it very well. The Progress Party wishes to extend this freedom of choice to the elderly. Why should you not yourself be allowed to choose who will provide home services, offer cleaning and assistance — and even provide health care facilities when you need it? With the model of the Progress Party, all actors who wish to provide better welfare services will be allowed to do so. The funding from the public must be equal. The actual payment must be equal to. Quality and supervision must be very similar. Then it's up to each one to choose which offer they want. I can accept that members from SV and Red do not like private actors. It is so simple that they too have the freedom of choice to choose public actors consistently if they want to, but that gives them absolutely no right to choose on behalf of all of us. Earlier this fall I was visiting Thea Eidjord, a pleasant lady of 89 years who wants to stay at home with her husband as long as possible. She has had to buy help for cleaning, cooking and other services at home for more than ten years in order to do so. As a user of a private welfare provider, she has been allowed to become acquainted with a lady who has helped her for many years and until now, when she has received a significantly greater need for home help. She could tell me that in a very common week, a few visits by 22 different people from the municipal home care service can take place. She doesn't want that, because she thinks it's impersonal, incomprehensible and difficult to deal with. She wants to use the private supplier who has already been with her for many years, but she is not allowed to do so by the municipality. The party of progress thinks it's a shame. The elderly too must be allowed to be the boss of their own lives and choose who will provide them with services in their home. Further left in Norwegian policy takes every opportunity to talk down and insult welfare providers in Norway. They run an active witch hunt at everything that's private, at all the great people who work every day, every night and every night to create a welfare offer that's good. Our welfare state would not function without private welfare providers. Today, families with children had no full babysitting without the private ones. We would not have had the violent quality increase if there were not too healthy competition between public and private players. I would like to thank the private actors for making a good offer to our citizens. The freedom of choice and diversity we have in the kindergarten sector want the Progress Party to increase in both school and care for the elderly. We have to let our inhabitants have the freedom to decide more in their own lives and trust that people can think for themselves. I am proud to represent a party that has always fought for the rights and security of the elderly, who do not believe in public monopoly, and who recognizes all hands in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3258	All those who are concerned about the development of the police and who heard the census yesterday were probably aware that the government is still using the word ‘near-police reform’ on the centralisation reform they are implementing. While we in the Central Party have always been aware that reorganizing as much and laying down as many LEN offices will have consequences for service production as well, it seems that the parties that gave plurals for the reform now have two different responses which still come from different police districts. The Government Party believes that the problems that arise in the police action are only short-term problems associated with the implementation of the reform, while the other parties supporting the reform seem to be surprised by the consequences that arise, and owes the government not to have implemented the reform well enough in line with the agreement. This last one may slowly be right enough, for there is no doubt that some leads were put in the deal that would fix some of the trouble that massive aggregation would result. But here it is important to bear in mind that the bulk of the population openly went into structural change, which is the main reason why the reform can't in any way be called a real near-police reform. We are constantly told that the Länsmannskontoret, which passed on after the reform, is now being lost for so many settings and resources that they are just waiting for them to be formally abolished. The promise that the closure of many canal offices would result in more options and more resources for the remaining offices does not have a lot of space. Why are we in the Center Party so intensely occupied with this here, why don't we just give up and invent that we lost the big round of police reform in 2015? Well, it's because it's not right for the government to continue implementing changes that prove to have results that are different from what they have. We believe that the negative consequences of the reform will not only be short-lived, but that they can continue into eternity unless good action is taken. Yes, we realize that the bulk of the population still does not want to travel back to the offices of the canned man, but we do not believe that the rest of the canned man's office will be thin for resources until they die out of itself. Nor do we believe that people from the government parties are constantly minimizing the problems of police reform. Representing this long-distance and convoluted country on the Stortinget, while believing that much increasing distances between police and residents should not cause problems, is at best naive. And when they can't even make sure that the centralised units are working properly, things don't get any better. The police patrols, of which there were so many more, and which would be so visible where the officers' offices disappeared, they can't be sure of speaking either. While Sylvi Listhaug was Minister of Justice, she answered this a written question from me: ‘The Directorate of Police reports that they also do not control police districts on the number of police patrols and that no reports are collected on the number of police patrols. Nor does the Ministry request such statistics.’ It's kind of funny that they choose not to require reporting on such things as can be highly measured, and that could potentially be used as self-confidence if they were actually closed down by getting significantly more police on wheels throughout the country, as promised. It is important to remember that the grips that have given positive results over the last few years are grips on which it has our cross-political agreement, such as the United Kingdom. better use of modern technology, more police work in the city and rapid investigation where possible. So at the end of the theme readiness more generally. We in the Center Party want to put down a total preparedness commission. A mere plurality on the Stortinget voted against our presentation on this in spring. Now it's 20 years since the last time we had a commission working on the overall preparedness picture. The world has changed, so has Norway. We therefore need to get an overview of the overall risk picture and use it to shape policy in the field of preparedness. An important part of this is to ensure that the various response actors interact well and to know about each other’s resources. Total preparedness is about everything from individual self-sufficiency in the home to flood and tailoring, and actors are everything from individual residents and private enterprises to public and voluntary Norway. We in the Centre Party are ready to go to the depths of all this in order to ensure better policy decisions in the future that make preparedness better overall. This will include both the resource and manning situation in different levels and the roles and tasks of response actors. We hope that the majority on Stortinget will soon see the need for a new review of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3297	The climate crisis is over us now. What a few years ago could look like gloomy and dystopian predictions about the future has now become present. Here we have experienced a dry and warm summer, but in countries around the world we have experienced a wild, warmer and wetter climate with significantly more dramatic consequences for people and people's livelihoods. This is no longer theory, it's reality, and it's happening now. If we look at the promises we have made with other countries, we have set good goals and goals, but we are far from fulfilling them. The world is not on route – Norway is not on route. We are not on track with concrete national emission targets that we set in this 2012 hall, which will be met by 2020. So it's less than 15 months left. You can already begin to look at the achievement of the 2020 targets, and there is a lot to be done with the 2030 targets, in order not to talk about the 2050 targets, because we know that the measures that need to be taken to achieve this must start to take place now. Buildings that are being built today will be in the future for many years, industrial solutions that are now being selected will continue to function for many years to come, and transport solutions that we are planning for now will also be measured against the climate test. We just have to take this even more seriously. There's a lot we agree on, and I'm glad. We agree on strong international objectives. We agree on international measures. The Energy and Environment Committee was in Indonesia last week and looked at a lot of successful efforts, with Norwegian support, to stop deforestation and spread of palm oil plantations, etc. But what worries me is that with the climate policy that the government is now pursuing – a government that also includes the environmental party Left – we have in many ways abdicated from the national emission targets. The government is so concerned with what is called the EU response sharing mechanisms, that we can end up making symbolic purchases of allowances of which there is a huge surplus, which means that it will look nice in the accounts, but will not contribute to real cuts at all. For an overall opposition in the United Kingdom, it is important that we also have clear and clear national targets. It's not like setting international goals means you're not going to do your own thing here at home. This is the basis for the fact that we in the Workers' Party, together with SV, have today presented up to 40 completely concrete proposals. These are proposals in the fields of construction, industry and petroleum, trade, agriculture, plastics and several other fields, with known technology. These are quick-to-start measures, which we believe will contribute to the rapid reduction of Norwegian national emissions. This is done by the Workers' Party because we are a responsible governing party. We have realized that managing responsibility in the 21st century requires recognition of nature's tolerance limits, and that we're actually only generations away from having exceeded them. That's the bad news. The good news is that technology and economics point in the right direction in many ways. A lot of business has seen this. Many actors, at home and outside, realize that future value creation lies in climate-friendly technology. The economy of e.g. renewable energy, but also in the electrification of almost everything, comes faster and faster. So it's possible to solve this problem, but it requires an ambitious policy. We want a debate on the throne and – next week – a debate on the budget that reflects the seriousness of the situation we face in Norway as a country and as other countries in the world, a policy in which we see value creation, jobs, justice, climate and environment as parts of a whole that cannot be achieved separately. As is said in the international trade movement: there will be no jobs on a dead planet. It's important that we understand this now, while it's still time. We're going to have a very high profile on this. We believe that creating jobs and value creation in the future is fully compatible. We actually believe that the opposite is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3314	It's a fact that we live longer. Each fifth of us is now over 60 years old. By 2040 we'll be twice as many over 80 compared to today. It is also a fact that we stay healthy longer and can expect many good years of life after retirement. More elderly people want to stay longer in work. They favour voluntary teams and organizations. They travel more, and they engage in the social debate, in their family and in their community. They are and will be important resource people in many different areas. In the conversations I had with older people in my years as a spokesperson, the need for and joy in community and activity was usually highlighted. For example, coming out and meeting others did. the sadness and loneliness after being a little easier to bear. Others stressed the importance of keeping in shape. For some, the day was with the high point of the senior, and as important as the activity was over a coffee cup and a piece of cake afterwards. The conversation was many, and the laughter was set loose, and I love to be invited on these hits. It is the elderly who know their own situation best, and who can convey what is important in order to live a good and rich life even in old age. For many years, care for the elderly has been about external factors such as buildings or the number of hospital beds, less about how the elderly actually do. This has been taken into account by the government. With the Life of Life, the best examples from the care of the elderly have been collected from municipalities throughout the country. The result is 25 solution proposals and several hundred examples based on input from the elderly and relatives, volunteers and professionals, and as we know, works in practice. They place particular emphasis on activity and community, food, health care and better context in services. We're going to provide for a more age-friendly society and the South for everyone to live a good life – all of life. However, age will be marked in different ways. My grandmother said in her time: it's strange, my body tells me I'm 85, but in my head I'm still 18. When health fails first, we often see that the basic needs fail and make the last part of life difficult to master. The family tells us that they are getting worn out, and many added to the care service know that they are not stretching to the job. Right, focus on the patient. No decision should be taken whether to participate without self-intersection. This also applies in the care of the elderly. On the right, a national strategy for relatives is needed to help those who are given large care for close family members. If the municipality starts its efforts earlier, more relatives will be able to contribute longer, the elderly will be able to live longer, and some may not be able to move to the hospital. We have worked out 600 leaders in the municipal health and care services in change management. We have also given 20 000-30000 additional continuing training, and of course we will continue this work. As we get older and get younger at the same time, we will have to work smarter in the future. The primary contact system, fewer different add-ons per user and the availability of help at the agreed time, are important elements in this. Many municipalities do a fantastic job. Unfortunately, the lack of all good measures has continued to be a local secret. Through "Life All Your Life" the good examples come to light, so that all municipalities can participate in them. New work and organisational models and alternative rotational arrangements have been introduced. Well-being technology is taking its toll. Many hospitals have moved the time for dinner and had more time for activities earlier in the day. The elderly are saturated when they lie down. They sleep better at night, and the use of medicine has decreased. For the Right, it is not important for anyone to drive hospitals, as long as the elderly are in good health and receive an offer that suits them and their needs. We need a lack of services and that all good forces can escape – both public, ideal and private. This is the Labour Party against. The centre party scrapped the whole reform in its 2018 alternative budget. They will also complete the project with primary health teams, follow-up teams and the pilot project in the medical field, all of which are new solutions to strengthen care for the elderly. They also cut for security reasons the strategy for an age-friendly society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3358	This is almost tradition's belief: in a chronology debate in the Storting, it's the opposition's role to criticize. But when I hear the opposition talking about a gray and boring government without vision, I wonder where the opposition has been. For my part, there might be over a thousand billion reasons why this government should continue. I want to mention the national transport plan. I'm thinking of alternatives to this government. It was an alternative where the Workers' Party was to try to match the government parties at the time, the Right and the Advance Party, which were supported by the Left and Christian People's Party. You would try to make an alternative. They came to Stortinget and turned out to be missing between 120 and 160 billion. kr on their project list. One had an SV that thought there was too much road in the national transport plan. One had a central party that thought there was too much track in the eastern part of the national transport plan. They had the Green Party, which said you didn't need roads. Then I think, where is the respect for the country's inhabitants? I think that if you ask people in the East, they'll say that it's good to bet on the railways in the East, because there's a lot of people living there. I think if you ask people between the cities, in the districts, they'll say that it's really great with a real effort both on maintenance and on building a new road, because then they come out safer and safer. This applies to all everyday trips, whether in work, in the workplace, to and from work, or to and from sports activities for families. It's safe. I think if you ask about maintenance on the county road network, many people would say it's good that there's a huge stake, because that's where most serious accidents happen. We know that under the red-green government, the maintenance crew increased by approx. 1 billion. kr annually – every single year. I believe that those who have experienced losing their loved ones, friends, family or acquaintances, or that they have been severely damaged, that is to say, it is a shame to hear that it is being built too much and maintained too much. I believe that those who are in line for Oslo – the trains are in line – will shake their heads and not feel familiar when the Center Party says that too much track is being built. There are so many trains purchased, and there are so many train sets around Oslo that there is no room in the tunnel even. It forgot to count on the opposition. They say they're going to build double tracks, but it's not so careful if they don't use it, only they're going to build it. This government has respect for taxpayers' money. When you hear the Workers' Party – yes, I wouldn't use the words 'walking seminar or circus'. But at least the Workers' Party's movement fraction, with the fractional leader Sverre Myrli at the head, must be serious when they write in all the country's newspapers – and travel around and tell about urban environmental agreements and later as if they were against tolls – that there would be lower toll rates because they would grant up to 70 pst. in the State share, and not 50 pst., as the government does. It's a little special to try to pretend like that, because let me just quote Sverre Myrli from the Labour Party in the budget debate on December 14, 2017. Then he was asked by Tom-Christer Nilsen if there would be higher toll rates in the districts if you had had 70 pst. State participation in urban environmental agreements. Quote from Sverre Myrli 14 December 2017: “I think that’s something I can promise for sure, is that there’s not going to be any lower tolls in Oslo or the other big cities.” Let me say it like this: the Progress Party has locally voted against toll financing in the cities where there is a great deal of focus now. The Labour Party has taken the lead in saying that it is fair to have such a toll financing. So it's not the state that has said you should have it, but it's about the proportion – who's going to pay what. If the municipalities and county councils fund it differently, it is up to them. I warmly welcome them to come and renegotiate agreements if they agree on it locally. Then we have been asked to increase the charge on the car. There this government has done the opposite. Charges have been drastically reduced over these five years, and in September, the world record was low. In the case of new car sales: in September CO2 emissions were 55 grams. There are no countries in the world that have such low emissions. That's because we're using the incentive tax relief, which allows people to choose to buy right and buy smart. At the 2012 climate agreement, the proportion of electric cars was about Six thousand. Overall, the number of electric cars and hybrid cars is now 251,000. We're going to keep reducing the fees, because it's smart, and it's safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3379	I want to take the assembly a little bit more back to the reality that very many people live in. There are many of those who are old and don't get room in nursing homes or help at home, and who lie and are scared and lonely, there are many of the kids who go to school with lumps in their stomachs every single day, and these are the teachers who know they don't have time to see them and help them, so they don't end up with little narcissism and have lost the desire to learn. I could also imagine that the government parties could worry a little bit more about some of the young people who are struggling mentally. They tell us that every day. Therefore, SV has proposed – as we need – a municipal mental health escalation plan. From the government we get budgets by budget that promise to bet, but when the numbers come, it turns out it's not. SV prioritises the municipalities and the community the most, and that's because we want all people to have freedom and not be worried if anything happens to them in life. Therefore, we are increasing the income of municipalities – for this year by over 6 billion. kr more than the government and twice as much as the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. This is precisely because we believe that care for the elderly is more important than tax havens. We believe that having enough teachers at school and having people in child protection is more important than tax havens, because it's about the most important thing in life, that people should have a good life even when it's difficult, and also about the safety net that we need if we're hit by sickness or unemployment. We also believe that the money we give to the municipalities should actually go to care for the elderly, kindergartens, schools, etc. and not for tax relief or for a business area for anyone who is to make a living in it. ‘Respect for taxpayers’ money’ was the previous speaker up here and said. Yeah, I got it. We believe that the money we pay should not go to a new business area for someone who is going to earn a search warrant on it. We're going to stop it, but we're going to cooperate with voluntary, non-profit, sector -- very important to do it. But to keep on having systems that allow anyone to take out billions of the tax money we pay – no, our tax money shouldn't go to such things. They will go to services that we have decided in common, and so that those who work in these professions will have decent wages and pensions. We need that in the future. Differences in Norway have increased. Everyone says they don't want to, but that's a crazy policy. When you take money from the poorest and give to the richest, the differences increase. And there are bad differences. Today we have even heard that the Progress Party and the Right believe that those who have the smallest and most unsafe jobs must take more responsibility for the sustainability of the economy and not continue to demand that they receive a pension for the small job they do. Is it the right group to point the finger at, which is going to take responsibility for the sustainability of society, which has done it every single day so far, by focusing on all the unsafe jobs – poorly paid, no occupational retirement provision? SV deeply disagrees with this. We have also seen many crocodile tears about houses and homes. Yeah, I'm looking at the bust. We pay out just as little in the housing allowance now as we did in 2009. The housing costs for people have exploded. The income of those with the lowest income has fallen. There are more tens of thousands of people getting housing support today than just a few years ago. It hits the house and home of those who have the most difficulty, in a housing market where one has no choice – there are no cheap homes to move to. So there's a big boost needed, and there's going to be an SV to suggest. Finally, I have heard some posts here now that refer to people as refugees for life from war or from persecution, almost as if they were criminals. I think that's what big business representatives should do too well. War is not sustainable, no one can demand it to be, but people must be allowed to save their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3396	The Trontals gave bids for a tough course – stow the course towards more inequality, stow the course towards even greater fortunes for the richest, stow the course towards less social mobility. There's something outrageous about such a development. Government policy leads to increased disparities, and it is clear that the government does not care about developments. The Minister of Industry has said that Norway tolerates increasing differences. The finance minister says we're not going to hang out in numbers that measure inequality between people. It's alarming when we know what greater differences in a society can lead to. Even the NHO is concerned about major differences and points out that economic growth would be higher if we were able to keep income differences low. Increased differences mean less value creation in our country – a smaller cake to distribute. And if we don't stop development now, we can get a country where big differences reduce trust in society, both between people and governments. When large groups are not allowed to share in the growth, they become understandably skeptical. It leads to disintegration. We have long said that developments in the countries around us can serve as a warning. But the differences are also increasing here, increasing differences have become a Norwegian problem. And those with the highest pay have got the highest supplements and the highest rates of tax. More than 100,000 young people are neither at work nor in education. The proportion of men aged 24 to 55 has fallen sharply in employment. And we know that women are still overrepresented among the lowest-paid. Involuntary part-time and lease-in create uncertainty in the labour market. Then more is required of a government than to invite to do to change this. In the state budget, we'll see about the government's ability to act. Another area that contributes to an increase in differences is occupational retirement provision. Private business employees are not entitled to earnings until they have earned almost NOK 100000. They don't have to work for another year. All earnings before you're 20 are cancelled. Similarly, revenues from part-time positions of less than 20 pst. The working party believes this is unreasonable. We have therefore proposed to amend the law. We're doing it to reduce the differences. After the reply of the honourable Member to Mr Marthinsen's representative in a reply earlier today, there is reason to be concerned. Greece pushed the social partners in front of him, but he did not comment that the director of the NHO was on TV 2 and said it was a matter for the Stortinget. That's exactly what the government adds up to. There has been a working group working on occupational retirement provision. At the hearing, the government has sent a proposal – which removes the 12-month rule, but not the rest. That is why we have put forward a proposal which also deals with the rest. But then we hear that we are involved in the work of the parties. Then the argument from the parliamentary leader of Greece becomes inconsistency, because the government has done exactly the same thing. When discussing the pension agreement, Greece forgets to mention that the government introduced the IPS, large tax deductions for those who can pay for their own pension. He also forgets to mention that the government has removed the possibility for the Storting to discuss the pension settlement. The private-sector pension scheme is a breach of the plan behind the pension system – all vesting shall result in the disbursement of pension payments. That's why it's important to reduce the differences. It's an important contribution to equality, and it's fair to change the pension, so that everyone gets from the first heads. The Labour Party believes that we need to use the opportunity now to give people a pension from the first penny. It's a justice claim. We need to use the uptime so that those who are out of work get safe, regular jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3413	When the Left joined the government, the centre of gravity was shifted towards the center of politics. We went into the government negotiations with a clear promise to make Norway greener, more rustier and more social liberal, and we came out with the Jeleia declaration, which will bring this about for good. The main breakthrough was that greenhouse gas cutting was raised as one of the main challenges. This means that Norway should be a driver of climate change work internationally, but also that we should do our part of the job here at home to cut emissions and develop new technologies that the world needs. The throne has raised the six main challenges this government has identified for Norway. I'm not going to repeat them here now, as many have been around them before me. Common to all of them is that there are complex challenges that require a wide range of measures. Nevertheless, there is one thing that is required to solve them all – and there is increased knowledge, both with each and with us as a society. The climate challenge will only be solved if people have knowledge of making good, environmentally friendly choices, if politicians have the knowledge to choose the best climate solutions, and if we have companies, researchers and others who can develop new technologies. To create new jobs, we also need knowledge. New knowledge strengthens the ability to grow. In order to create a more inclusive working life and to succeed in an integration promise, all must be given the opportunity to participate and to update their competences. In a knowledge-intensive working life that Norway currently has, it is put at the back of the line if you do not have a formal competence. That's why we have to make all kinds of education available to even more people. This is also the best way to reduce poverty and differences. That means that we need to strengthen the early efforts, we need to make it easier to learn throughout our lives, and we need to make more paths to formal competence. This work is very well done by the government. We have made kindergarten free of charge for families with low income. This scheme is also now extended to the two-year-olds in 2019, and during the period it will also apply to the SFO. Before the summer we got the right to intensive training for those students who do not master basic skills. We have increased teacher's density, especially at the lowest stages. And we have now come very far in a commitment that is crucial to getting an even better school for everyone – a broad commitment to the teachers' skills. Many of the measures we have implemented in recent years have been controversial, such as competence requirements for teaching in some disciplines, character requirements for learning, and not least the transformation of teacher training into master’s education. But now we see that teacher training is more popular than ever, with record applicants for the current academic year. This shows that the Left policy has fought for over many years, works. In the fall I started a visit tour to schools and kindergartens. This tour is far from finished, but the most important thing I can draw from my visits for the time being, is this: The first is that Norwegian school faces major changes that require a lot of teachers — digitisation is one example. This underlines the importance of giving teachers the skills they need. The second is that the renewal of curricula is absolutely necessary, so that all subjects have relevant content, so that we get clearer priorities that facilitate in-depth learning. The third is that diversity is important, in both school and kindergarten. We have to let go of all good forces to ensure freedom of choice and to develop better offers. I have met many welfare innovators who have already made good and unique offers in both school and kindergarten, and it is important that we continue to release all good powers. The final point is that children and young people are increasingly struggling with complex challenges, and that there is a need for mental health from kindergarten, school and even our students. The last state budgets have contributed to more psychologists and others working with mental health in municipalities, and to more health sisters in schools – we need to continue these efforts. There's some of the Left's priorities in government. Norway's future starts at school. It's not easy to create a school that's good for absolutely everyone. But for the Left, it's quite unthinkable to have a target that's slightly lower than that, because everyone has to come with – on proper. Many have, until now, stressed values in this debate, and that there is a major difference between the parties. Sometimes it sounds like some parts don't have values, while others have values. But the distinction is about what values we care about, and not least what we think is the right way to get to the society we want. The left's vision is a social and liberal knowledge society where people have the freedom and the ability to create their own path to good life, where we take responsibility for each other and for the environment. We're proud to be part of a government that has as its primary objective that people should be allowed to live a free and independent life, which will release freedom and support the creativity of the individual human beings and communities formed at work, in families and in voluntary organisations. A good society is built from below. That's also how we build good communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3441	Yesterday, at the solemn opening of the Storting, the Grand President gave a fine speech and the memory of the importance of taking seriously the task of representing the people in such a way that they still have confidence in us. It's an important reminder. Trust cannot be taken for given. That's what we've seen on TV from hearings in other countries' national parliaments lately. I think that an important part of the building of trust is by referring to a description of reality that people recognize. I have to say that the black paint of reality carried out by the opposition around reforms they themselves did not agree with is far from the feedback I get, and the results I see. The regional reform is referred exclusively to as a coercive measure that will destroy the country, while the reality is that good processes are now being carried out in the establishment of new regions. From my own part of the country, I get reports that the work on a single Agder is characterized by optimism and eagerness to put in place new and good colleges that can provide good services. The government parties, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, are united behind the steps that need to be taken, and will boast of the work done by the employees to build new and solid regions. The police reform is referred to as if the police are now completely absent in people's everyday lives. The reality is that the reform establishes environments of expertise that can address crime that were previously not possible to clarify and investigate around the country, and it is a reform that allows the police to address crime in new arenas. An increasing number of policemen are working to secure people's daily lives, which will be reinforced when a new coal this fall comes into place in new positions in the various police districts. The languages of the throne are clear on some challenges that will receive extra attention in the coming year. These are not necessarily new initiatives, but are based on the work already done in the five years Right has been in government and the results you have achieved. The government points to the challenge of transforming the Norwegian economy to create new jobs. It means targeted efforts to improve communication, road, rail and, in particular, digital infrastructure, targeted efforts to raise and renew the competences of professional groups acquired by a new era, and to facilitate the environments that will help us to be at the forefront also in future professional competences. I have received my assignment from the inhabitants of Agder. There is a region that experienced very dark clouds in the horizon as changes in oil and gas industries led to the disappearance of several thousand jobs. It has been tough for many, but today we see optimism. Unemployment is falling, and enterprises in Agder are entering new markets through the development of their own activities, new products and innovation together with new, strong environments of expertise, for which the government has targeted. Mechatronics Innovation Lab, the centre of artificial intelligence and new labs for eHealth are good examples: each of them has strong environments of expertise that can help existing and new businesses, but perhaps the most exciting where they work across and through it brings life to completely new solutions and jobs. The most important task of government and greatness is to provide support and help to those around us who, for some reason, need us to set up for them. Getting people to work is one of the most important measures, both human and economic, to help those who are in a difficult situation. Therefore, increased participation in the labour market is a priority area for the government. I am also very pleased with the clear, increased effort directed at children of low-income families and children who experience the alienation. The last five years' budgets have had a historic commitment to offer to this group, and we see that it changes the everyday life of these families. The children get good experiences, new friends, and can proudly participate in everyday life. Finally, I have to point to the value of free treatment choice. Lolandsheimen treatment centre for drug use and other addictions lost in our bidding round as a supplier to Health South-East. 37 treatment sites and 60 competent staff experienced immediate uncertainty, but the good offer is maintained as part of a free choice of treatment. The need for treatment sites in the region, combined with the good results of Lolandsheimen, thus provides a basis for continued provision. So if the Workers' Party, which is opposed to free treatment choices, were to govern the country, this offer would be removed. I'm glad that the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, have a common position, for the benefit of those who need help with their challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3462	That's about. a year since it was an election, and today's majority has been given renewed confidence to govern this country with the policies that have been pursued. I understand that the opposition thinks it's a little hurt, but when you listen to the debate today, it's like we're living on two different planets. It is a black paint, especially in the field of justice and police reform. It sounds like there's a sector in crisis. It is not good to send such signals to people when we know that the police have increased confidence in the population. If I don't remember correctly, justice policy wasn't that good eight years ago. There was low police coverage and no demand for response time, and the repair queues were longer than ever. Special SV works as they are on autopilot: the only solution for the police sector is to put in place more officers’ offices. One might think that's what could save the police sector. Close police reform is necessary. I'm glad the head of the Justice Committee was so clear on that in his statement. But it is demanding to have reformed, and police reform is a major reform. All reforms are demanding, but then the solution is not to turn around – it is to remember the importance and why this reform was necessary: we need stronger units, and we need to put mobile police forces in place and not count the premises of these police officers. The crime scene is changing, and we need a police force that's armed for it, that can deal with crime and protect the victims. I'm glad the government's priority is to create a safer society. We must prevent children from being subjected to violence and abuse, and we need to strengthen their competence in the ministry, so that violence and abuse are exposed early, and those who are exposed receive help. In fact, it is crucial who is in charge of justice policy. The Progress Party is proud of the things we have put in place in the sector in the years we have been in government: the police coverage has increased, and we are on track to achieve the target of two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants in 2020. There are about 2,600 more paid annuals in the police since 2013, and more than 1,500 of them are police annuals. About 95 pst. by the police students have got a job. The reconciliation queues are almost closed, and the clearance percentage is 2.2 pst. better than in 2013. I could keep that list, but I'll leave it. Because we've come a long way, but I'm also going to be honest to say that there's a piece left. That is why I am pleased that this work continues to be strengthened. And if the leaks from the Minister of Justice turn out to be right, which I'm sure they are, they show that the justice sector is a priority for the government next year. The Internet has come to stay. The Internet is not a thing, it's a place. It offers great opportunities, and none of us can imagine a world or a life without the Internet and social media. But it's also a dangerous place. Every day we can read about online crime and what serious consequences this can have for those affected. Especially serious for children and young people. Combating violence and abuse must be one of the priority tasks of the police, because the consequences for individuals and for society are great. That is why police reform is also important in the fight against violence and abuse. We must have police districts that give priority to this work, which have competence and weight in such matters. We must have a police force that is equipped for the future, and that is why I am pleased that the government also prioritises crime related to ICT and that this competence should be strengthened. The representative of Lene Vågslid was surprised at the fact that the census only mentioned the protection of the victims in connection with the police reform. For the Progress Party, it has been important to put in place victim care offices. It is gratifying when we see that all the police districts will have their victim care office to care for the victims from the time they report a case until judgment is given. It's the right policy, and it's like I said earlier in my post: it matters who's in charge, and this government is delivering on justice policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3483	We're supposed to be the voice of those who don't seem or hear otherwise – not the microphone stand for those who want to shine and show up anyway. – That was the position of former Depositary Representative and Prime Minister Odvar Nordli. For us in the Workers' Party, it is vital to have security of income and a better outlook no matter what profession you have and where you live in the country. It is one of our Community values, which has built our country and shaped the welfare state ever since World War II and created better hope for new generations. But the differences are now increasing. Among those who work in the private sector, workers with the 10 pst. the lowest wages and salaries have decreased in real terms since 2008. It's a large part of our population that is worse off today than you were a few years ago. It's employee groups like cleaners, waiters, carpenters, who do absolutely crucial jobs for us to have a good life. Of course, it also affects their families, who at last can struggle to get their ends to meet. Meanwhile, those who earn the most, and have the largest wealth, have a two-digit percentage growth in income in the same period. This is alarming, because we know that it is in countries with economic equality that it is the best health, the highest trust and security for all. So this is rocking the very construction of society in our country. That is why, in the Labour Party, we are very happy that in ours, there was a majority – as we contributed in this Chamber – to ensure permanent jobs with pension and income security, when we tightened up the old-fashioned, short-term use of underpaid hired labour. But we have to move on. Pension from the first crown will help the economy of a million Northmen and provide financial security for far more than today. We need leaders in our country to address these kinds of challenges. And now that we've heard the languages of the throne, there's one thing that's struck me: So much boast that's been uttered, when, for example, we know that it's 10 pst. by the employees of the private sector who are worse off today than ten years ago – it would be completely alien to Odvar Nordli, simply because he was too concerned about how ordinary people feel in our whole country, simply because it was about creating a better future, using our democracy for progress, not boasting, and using our democracy to ensure that those who do not seem or hear can become part of the opening of the Great Britain. That is what we want to take with us. We need to create better prospects for very many people in Norway who do a hard job and really deserve to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3492	For a long time, the Center Party and the Workers' Party have tried to blackpaint the image of the Norwegian police. Today's debate is no exception. If there have been events in the police where they have not acted completely after the book, the police reform has actually been blamed. The representative Arnstad today mentioned Frøya in Trøndelag and was hesitant that it was the police reform that caused a patrol to arrive very late at a crime scene. Tor Kristian Haugan says in local terms that ‘this episode has no relevance to the time and size of the County of Länsmann. – This specific incident is due to a misassessment by the police, and it shall never happen again.’ This is a matter we handle internally, he says. I think it's completely insane that Arnstad is exploiting this kind of individual pistachios to swear the police reform. It was actually the same way during the red-green eight years that the police did wrong, and what's good about this episode is that the police admit their mistakes and say that it will never happen again. Then it's a very bad thing that Arnstad uses falsehoods to gain political favor. In his eagerness to criticise the Workers' Party or the Center's party today, the need that we have for a change in the police force. The Norwegian police were analysed after July 22nd, and it was made clear that the police were unable to deal with the future development of crime. As a former janitor, I know that we need to change the police. We can't keep up what we've always done, for the changes in society and the crime that have changed, challenges the Norwegian police model, which has been made up of many small loner offices that have had short opening hours, and which have simply not had the competence to handle what's coming inwards us now. And then we see that the traditional winning crime has been reduced by 40 pst. the last three to four years. In this type of case, there is a very high level of reporting flexibility, so there are not many cases there that have not been reported. People go and report these kinds of things quite so unsolicited. We've seen an increase in sexual assault reports of 66 pst, and family violence has increased by 33 pst. I think this is because of the effort that has been against violence and assault over many years. Police and auxiliaries have become very forward-looking and professional in handling these kinds of cases, and then several people who have been exposed have reported these kinds of cases. So we need a stronger professional environment to deal with this type of crime. Then we see that online abuse explodes to an extent. 2 371 people downloaded and shared children’s images and videos in 14 days of age, according to Kripos’ studies – 2 371 persons in Norway in 14 days. It's amazing. The crime we see is a paradigm shift, and it's the new course that crime has taken, which is overloading the police and the judiciary, not the police reform. Moreover, crime has become more cross-border and complex, and so much more incidents occur on the Internet, including in the case of fraud and theft of identity. We also see that the new technology provides the police with new tools that allow them to take a PC out in the car and search for registers there themselves, to interview the police on the spot, and you become less dependent on the Länsmannskontoret. It is demanding to be in a process of conversion. Culture, attitudes and police leadership are challenged, and the police are an establishment with very strong both formal and informal structures of power. Now it is important for the police to focus on tripartite cooperation in order to get this change process into port, so that individual employees are motivated to go an extra mile. For change is tough, but absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3516	Integration policy is one of the six main areas of government activity for the year ahead. It's promising – and it's necessary. In an increasingly smaller world, I am convinced that tomorrow's winners are the nations that succeed in creating a good climate for integration. It is about seeing the resources of all people and giving space to new citizens – and that they should be able to deliver the best of themselves into the communities in which they participate in our society as well. The challenge is to create a society that masters diversity and maintains basic social values and sense of community – in other words, the goal of a diverse society where everyone feels ownership and participation. In a time of great refugee flows and political instability in many parts of the world, this is very demanding. Norwegian integration policy has done a lot of good. Many immigrants have found themselves comfortable, have learned Norwegian, have good jobs, have children who do well in school and participate in Norwegian society in a good way. But statistics also unfortunately tell us that parts of the immigrant population are far behind in terms of employment and schooling. The path from refugee to employee becomes too long and the risk of clientisation facing the support system too large. There is a need for a power cap, and it is very positive that the government has announced a strategy for this at Christmas. The starting point for government work is that the key to integration is to get a job. That's a good starting point. Work is about self-respect, about being seen for what you provide, and about feeling that with your head raised you can enter as an active social participant in all other areas of society. People who feel that they are creating their own future can move mountains. After many visits to immigrant families, on reception and on various integration measures in the municipalities, I am turned off that the inaugural meeting and the willingness to intervene are so absolute. But there are also some barriers that quickly fall into your eyes. Let me mention someone. Firstly, we must help to make the arrangements in this area more flexible and adaptable to the individual. We need more tailoring, short and good. Immigrants are also individuals, and it is necessary to take into account large differences — for example, between sexes, education and social backgrounds. Another question is whether we are good enough to take care of the skills that each individual has with him from his home country. My answer to that is no. Some municipalities work well with this. That gives good results, and it's worth noting. It is also good that the government will address Norwegian training and the introduction programme. Here there is also a greater need for tailoring, it should be safe. We also need a closer results-oriented follow-up in language training. The important thing is not how many hours you have actually had in Norwegian – the important thing is how much you master the language. Making demands on this shows that we actually care. We know how essential it is to master the language. Then we also have to stand up for the requirement that it should happen. The reform of the introduction programme also requires clear requirements and expectations as to what is to be achieved. Today, there are considerable differences between municipalities on how good they are to get immigrants into work and education. Through clearly defined requirements, also here for Norwegian training, we need to ensure that everyone receives an equally good offer – and the best possible – across the country. It is also necessary that we use all the good forces. Voluntary organisations and private actors have a lot to contribute. Let's better put them in the big promise we have in front of us. Not least, this also builds several bridges into Norwegian society. And we must not forget that good integration is not just about political decisions, but that integration is also deeply about attitudes between people, that employers do not sort out job seekers' groups by name, that immigrant children are right and make Norwegian friends at school and in leisure – in short, that our new countrymen build positive ties to the Norwegian society that gives them ownership, pride and loyalty.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3544	It's interesting to sit and follow the debate on the throne, because it gives opportunities to look at a little bit more of the long lines than during the daily debates on individual matters that we have in the hall. I've come to think in the time we've been sitting here that not many days ago Kim Larsen, a man who gave us a lot of good music, a lot of good lyrics, but who also made a lot of sense. For he once said: "I cannot understand what a government should do well for if it is not to help the weak. The strong will fucking be all right." I think that's very well said, and I think it's very relevant to the discussion that we've had so far in the case of the census. Because we're about to pass five years with the most right-wing government we've ever had in Norway, a right-wing government that also stands out in European context, by the fact that the far right is in government. It is a good conservative who has written a book about it – not about that government, but about the developments we see in Europe, where neoliberalism and the parties that have stood for conservatism have gradually been taken over by neoliberalism. It is Christian Borch, who has written a book called «Banality's Tyranni». It gives a pretty good description of how the neoliberal forces are winning, and it certainly hasn't been changed by the fact that since the last time we had the throne, we've got a party into government. Rather, on the contrary, there has been a confirmation of the neoliberalist line. This is a new course for Norway. It is a new course in relation to the Norwegian model, which has been very much bringing together for Norway, where one has collided on some key parts of Norwegian policy. It might not be so strange when some parties in that government have been aiming to break the Norwegian model. I remember Siv Jensen's national meeting in 2013, where it was a clear objective. It has given us a new course in economic policy, which is essential in the Norwegian model, where many have emphasised, rightly, that large tax credits have been given to those who already have a lot, those who Kim Larsen thought could ‘anything’ manage themselves. But what has not been mentioned so much is that tax policy becomes even clearer when we see who has received tax incentives: those who have to stop and receive termination benefits, for example, or ordinary workers, who get up early in the morning, commute quite far to do their daily dont and return home in the evening. The commuting deduction – those who deal with such things, the government seems to have to pay more in taxes. Then the profile becomes very clear. We see it in welfare policy, where the daily allowance is cut by over 1 billion. NOK, where you have found that you have to cut the support for the car for those who do not depend on the car to get to work, but who are disabled and need a car anyway. Previous mention has been made in the debate cut off support for necessary physiotherapy, cuts in the AAP scheme, etc. Perhaps the most dramatic thing about well-being is the organization we see for the privatisation of common welfare production, where it is going to be interesting investment objects to run with health, instead of creating good common health services that reach all. We see it in the cooperation model, which is perhaps one of the most unique features of the Norwegian model, that the social partners take a great deal of joint responsibility in important areas of society. For the first time, the Labour Environment Act was amended without the parties being participants in the process. It is historical in the Norwegian context that they are not allowed to participate and discuss the further development of the Working Environment Act. We see, as a result, that the measures agreed by the parties in the area of social dumping, yes, they do not come, because the measures we have received against social dumping, which the government has opposed, have been given to us thanks to the negotiating power of the Christian People's Party in the Stortinge by budgets and not by the government's initiative. The direction is clear: it's different, and we want to change it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3574	A lot goes well in Norway. Economic growth is rising, and more new jobs are being created. Young people learn more, health cows go down, roads and railways are being built, education and research are being heavily invested, tools are being used to stimulate business start-ups, new ideas are becoming jobs-creating products and services, which in turn support the sustainability of the welfare society and contribute to achieving climate goals. The numbers' speech is ready. It's pretty strange to sit and listen to the opposition's black paint of this. It's almost so I get a little bored on behalf of all the good results that are being created. Agriculture is no exception. We see a new optimism in the industry, fewer farms being laid down. With this government, the trend of land degradation has turned upside down, investment is high, and more young people see a future in agriculture. That's good. Norwegian agriculture is important primarily for the production of food, but also for other industrial activities, housing, cultural landscapes, health and tourism. We also have a large and important food industry, which depends on good raw materials. Norway has one of the world’s best food producers, with low levels of antibiotic use and injecting drug use and an even higher level of animal welfare. It ensures clean and safe food, and it gives Norwegian food production a good reputation, which benefits the industry both domestically and abroad. Food security and animal welfare are areas in which this government has a high focus. Here I would like to congratulate the Norwegian Bondelag, who has adopted a zero vision for poor animal welfare, where, among other things. states that infringements of the legislation are totally unacceptable and that total farming is to be responsible for good animal welfare. Agriculture will also contribute to Norway's compliance with its international climate obligations. This summer has been tough for many farmers. The worst drought in 100 years hit large parts of the industry. Great lack of food gave fear of a winter without food to the animals. Fortunately, the last part of the summer got a little better, when the rain finally came. The Government and the Council of State shall be praised for their closeness with the organisations and for taking the necessary measures to remedy the situation. During this summer I have had the pleasure of visiting many farmers both in Rogaland and in Agder. I'm impressed by how they've dealt with the difficult situation. Here I would particularly like to draw Henning Kolnes from the List in West Agder, who took me on a ride in the usually beautiful and green Lista landscape, which this summer was completely wasted. It was simply a sad sight. But what impressed me with Henning was how offensive he was to obtain food, and the special concern he had for the young farmers who had recently entered the industry. He is mentor of the new arrangement that the government has also established, and does a brilliant job there. At the farmers on the list there was no doubt that the drought brought about solidarity in the industry. The peasants stood together and helped each other, and it was uplifting to see. But there was one thing that upset me both at Henning Kolnes on Lista, Jannike Nystøl on Lindesnes and Jan Skisland in Songdalen, and that was the fact that animals die because of garbage in the feed. The fact that people throw plastic, metal and other trash along the roads kills animals. This leads to great suffering for the animals and financial loss for the farmers. We often think of this as an aesthetic problem, but garbage kills both livestock and animals in the wild, both in the sea and on land. Many have seen the image of the whale that was full of plastic, and now we also see dead grazing animals because of littering. This is a problem that needs to be taken seriously. First of all, it is a personal responsibility of the individual who throws garbage into the animal’s food container – we have to put an end to that. We have to see if there is anything that can be done from a political point of view. I have notified the Council of State that there will be a question about this. Much, as I said, goes well both in the country and in agriculture. We have challenges that we are doing well, and we will continue to facilitate sustainable and forward-looking food production for small and large uses across the country. We believe in the Norwegian farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3596	I want to start by saying that I think it is a great day today. First of all, there's a debate on the throne, and it's basically a big one. Secondly, Kåre Willoch is 90 years old today. I don't hesitate to say he's a great statesman, and it's with Willoch as with so many Right-wing people – they get better over the years. Thirdly, today is Germany's national day. Today, Germany and the Germans celebrate the reunification on 3 October 1990. Germany's division for 45 years was the result of a war and a regime that really showed how bad it could go in a country. Both in Germany and Norway, we must take care of what has been achieved. Nothing is anymore of course. The most important thing we and our colleagues, who have similar jobs in other countries, can do is to contribute to peace and freedom in Europe and in the world. People have to be safe, and people have to feel good about their neighbors. Many people say it's a troubled world. Yes, it is. It is not natural for people to feel good and for people to live in security. Our job is to make people feel good, and that people get it a little bit better, as we've got it for the last few generations in Norway. For this reason, policy in essence never ends. There's always something to get into, and there's always opportunities to develop society. And we should be glad that the policy does not end – at least we who are elected to this house. Many from the government parties have said in the debate today that most people in Norway are doing well, or they are doing well in Norway. Yeah, lucky for you. And I want to add – it would certainly just be missing in this country with all the possibilities! For 70 years, things have gone better and better in this country, with a few exceptions – what we in Norway call crises: the oil crisis and the financial crisis and that kind of thing. But mostly it's been going forward all along. I see the Minister of Health is next speaker. I'm tipping him off to say, we're treating more and more patients. Yes, of course the government and our hospitals do. All governments in the last 70 years have treated more patients. And I heard the Minister of Justice say that we are giving more and more money to the police, and he calculated in percentages and pro-miles. Yes, it would have taken place if the government had not given more money to the police! All governments in the last 70 years have given more money to the police. That's the dynamics of the welfare community. Luckily, I'll say. In a country like Norway, it is not difficult to find examples and talk about what is going well, and about those who are doing well. Those who have the best, and those who have the most, always manage, they – whether it's the Right Party, the Working Party or others who rule. But what's really interesting is how it goes with those who don't sit at the top of the table. How are they doing? Many of them aren't doing very well. The number of poor children is increasing, the differences in our country are increasing – in this beautiful country. Why does it do that? Well, because the government and the majority of the population are pursuing a policy that takes Norway in the wrong direction — not dramatically, not overnight, but a little after a while. When a cutter cuts the child supplement for the disabled, when a cutter cuts the holiday money for the unemployed, when a cutter in the support of the chronically ill, when a cutter in the commuting allowance, yes, there are some effects. And now the jam workers who use the car at work are going to get lower mileage compensation. Not dramatically, no, that's not it, but you're the world so petty it is – while the richest get even more from this government. To the right-hand side, I would say, these aren't misery descriptions. This is not a black paint. Norway is doing well, but not for everyone. It can go better for more people, and that's what should be our job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3615	Also about my speech, the representative Myrli is wrong, as he often does in his posts in Stortinget. I do not intend to say that more and more people are being treated, although of course that is correct. I intend to talk about those who do not receive the treatment they should have received. The government’s aim is to create a sustainable welfare society — a society with small differences, where everyone can participate, and where everyone is given the opportunity to contribute. The biggest difference in Norway is between those in work and those out of work. The government invites employers to do their utmost to recruit more people who are currently out of work due to impairment or holes in the CV. We need to implement an inclusion dew and an integration promise. In the debate on poverty and social inequality, it is often about measuring heads and percentages after the inequality has arisen. But often the main perspective is missing: what are the causes of social inequality? People with serious mental health challenges live on average 20 years shorter than the population otherwise. It's the biggest and worst social inequality in Norway today. This is neither acceptable nor acceptable. Therefore, Russians and mental health have been at the top of the agenda for the four non-socialist parties since 2013. Together, we have strengthened health and school health services by over 1.1 billion. kr. We have legalized that all municipalities should have psychologists from 2020. Together, we have presented an escalating plan for the We've reintroduced the Golden Rule, which our red-green predecessors have removed. Later this autumn, we will present a stepping-up plan for children and young people's mental health. In the next national health and hospital plan, mental health is one of the main themes. The common focus on mental health and drug use produces results. We have turned the decline in the community's efforts for children and young people's mental health under the red-green government into a growth of over 1,500 years in municipal mental health and drug work only in the last two years. The waiting time for drug treatment has fallen by more than 30 days since 2013. ‘No decisions about me without me’ has become an important guideline for health care. The government will have a drug reform in place during the current period. We're going to change society's attitudes to people with drug addiction. Drug addicts shall no longer face punishment but health care. Not knowing what's going to happen makes it harder to be sick, both for those who have the disease, and for those who are happy in one. Therefore, three years ago, we introduced a cycle of cancer packages. Now we're setting up a package for drug treatment and mental health. From 1 January, the first patients will enter the new package sequences. They shall ensure participation for the patient, a coordinator who will ensure that the activities are well planned and who will be the patient’s and the family contact person — a health service that sees the whole human being, not just the drug or psychosis. The Prime Minister recently met Yvonne. She's an employee of the Coworkers, a small waste company that only employs former addicts. After 30 years of drug dependence, she is probably one of Norway’s gentlest workers. Among other things, she said:: I feel that I'm doing good for myself, that someone needs me. I've never had that feeling before. There is no one who has thought that I should ever get to work – neither do I myself, really. Miracles happen. If there is hope for me, there is hope for most. Norway has strong economic growth, and more and more people across the country are coming to work. We have to use the good times to include more. If we don't now succeed in lifting up those who are out of work, we'll never make it. I hope that the miracle Yvonne experienced will also happen to those who are still outside, because in Norway we need everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3638	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3643	The government announces a new national health and hospital plan, both in the throne and in the posts of the Council of State. The last time such a plan was presented, the government was criticised for forgetting the prehospital services. Today, we find that almost half of the municipalities break the so-called response time requirements, and there has been a strong focus on this in the context of health care companies planning their future ambulance service. We know that the needs are only increasing for the ambulance service, which is the most important element in this time-critical emergency medical chain. My question to the Minister of Health is whether the next National Health and Sickness Plan is leading the development of prehospital services, and whether the Council of State can ensure that people can feel as secure as they can in the Salangen as in Oslo if the accident should be out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3650	As the representative is aware, we have had a public investigation into the prehospital services. The government is following up that work. As regards the response time, their recommendation was not to legislate on the response times but to have them as a target and not least to introduce them as a national quality indicator. I've followed that up. A national quality indicator has now been introduced. That means that one will be measured on this. But I agree with the representative of Kjerkol, who I heard in a line-up with the Central Party earlier today, on the fact that legislating the response times will not be a good tool, nor does it recommend the public investigation. The data we have for 2017, as the media reproduces, is Norwegian patient registry very clear on not having a data quality that allows them to be used yet. So those numbers have to include a certain pinch of salt.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3657	I thank you for your answer. As the Minister of Health began his speech against my friend Sverre Myrli, I would like to ask a question to the Council of State. I have heard all the Right Representatives and all the Councils of State from the Right in this persuasion debate talk about Norway being a good country to live in, with little differences. We have a regulated and good working life, a good tripartite cooperation. The Norwegian social model has been discussed, and well-developed public welfare has been discussed, where we contribute over the tax bill, and where we get help as needed. So I want to ask the Minister of Health a question: Which of the welfare reforms that have given us this good society that has been described as the Right Representatives all day, has the Right gone into the break for and driven forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3662	The right has been central to building the welfare community in Norway. I have to remind you that it was a Right-led government that put forward, among other things. The law of popular protection. It was before both the representative Kjerkol's time and my time. The right has also been very central not least in building up good health care and not least the rights of the individual patient. I just want to remind you that it was the Right who called for patients to be legally entitled to treatment within deadlines based on the individual patient’s needs, and the rights of the individual patient to choose between different treatment sites. Of course, much of the welfare in Norway is just about good cooperation, and we are able to create the values that finance our well-being. I do not think anyone is in any doubt about the significant contribution of the Right in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3669	To ensure a fair prioritisation of health care funds, we depend on knowing the costs. Norwegian health professionals, with the health minister’s approval, have introduced confidentiality of medical prizes. Now this practice can be brought to an end because of new signals from both the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party for demands of openness. My question is whether the Minister of Health also now believes that something needs to be done about this. If I don't want to ask you what Jan Fridthjof Bernt has done today: what is the basis that the Minister of Health is using to prevent a person from complying with the public law at this point? Can the councils prove that secrecy will lead to cheaper medicine?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3676	I think transparency is a good thing, it's the representative and I totally agree on it. That means we're going to have transparency in all of the possible areas. Of course, we have to comply with the Public Service Act, but we also have to comply with competition law, and we have to comply with our obligations under the EEA Agreement. All these laws must be complied with by health businesses. What I have said, and as the Storting has said through the Storting's treatment of the prioritisation message, is that if, for example. keeping prices secret in order to obtain discounts enables the use of a medicinal product, and that is within the limits laid down by the legislation, it is acceptable. Norway cannot do so alone when the consequence of this is that Norwegian patients will not receive all the treatment they need. For example, it would. Spinraza treatment was not possible for children in Norway without accepting the pharmaceutical company’s obligation to keep the discount secret. I am not willing to pay that price. If the Center Party wants to, they'll have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3681	The Council of State, as it is today, has argued that we need to keep the prices of medicines secret in order to get the medicine that Norwegian patients need. Now it turns out that in both Denmark and Sweden they practice at least more openness than we do. That's the same procurement regulations we have to stick to. So here it seems like we're going on a very strict line, so we're going to put it behind it instead of prioritising openness. Based on all the information that has been made available on this matter, among other things. in a report in Bergen's Official Journal during the summer, where we have heard much more about the consequences – there are many hearing bodies that oppose this – will not the Council of State take a step back and be with us in Stortinget to ensure more openness?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3686	I don't need to take anything back, because I've been very clear on the need for transparency all the way. Therefore, I am also very pleased that the industry has accepted the invitation from regional health companies to discuss agreement on how to deal with price transparency in healthcare companies. But if the representative calls for Norway to stand on the principle of transparency about these prices, even where it has the kind of consequences that it is not possible for us to achieve the kind of discounts that we get now, and therefore that medicine is not being used, or that we have to pay very much more than all the other countries for these medicines, I am not willing to pay that price. I work internationally with my colleagues to work for a larger international press for transparency, but it is a job that Norway cannot take alone, because then Norwegian patients alone will pay the price for that principle. I'm not willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3692	The worst challenge we have is that people with major mental problems live 20 years shorter than the rest of us, said the Council of State. I agree, and that's why one of the promises made by the government, namely to implement the Golden Rule, so that the psychiatry in the specialist health service is lifted more than somatic, was important. So the council doesn't have to repeat that it was removed. I disagreed. But now when we look at the numbers of how this has gone, it's sadly very discouraging. A recent report from the Health Directorate describes developments so that there is fivefold higher growth in somatic products than in mental health protection. This is contrary to what the government has promised, and that government is always claiming. Should these patients wait for miracles, or is the Council of State able to give serious priority to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3697	Yes, this is being seriously prioritised. I am pleased that the Golden Rule has been complied with in the field of drugs, but as the representative has probably also come along, I am far from satisfied with the follow-up to the mental health rule. That's why this is also something that I follow very closely to the health companies. However, the main explanation that people with mental health challenges live 20 years shorter is not, in fact, related to their mental health challenges. It is linked to something that may actually be a little worse, namely that they do not get help for their other health challenges – for heart disease, for cancers and for other diseases that the rest of the population get more help. That's why just the mental health package that we're introducing now, so important, because they put in the system a thought that one should also take on seriously the other health challenges, so that one not only sees the psychosis, but actually sees the whole human being.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3704	No one disagrees that the health service should see the whole human being. You've been saying that for a lot of years. I assume that the Council of State is following it, because that is absolutely necessary. But the reality behind the promise made by the government that the psychiatry would get a promise – I assume that the Council of State believes that it should also be helped – is that it is simply not fulfilled. It's gone the wrong way. Then I need to ask the Council of State when he is going to set up these package procedures, whether he is then sure that the treatment offered by these patients is actually available. For psychiatry is being built up in many places, both in the specialist health service and in the case of, for example: user-controlled beds in municipalities, which may be what can help this patient on the day it goes in black.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3709	As I have said, I am not satisfied with the results of the Golden Rule, but I believe, of course, that it was right to introduce it, and the representative is wrong when she says that it has gone the wrong way. No, it's also gone the right way in this area. The rule has had an effect, although the effect has not been as strong as I wanted. The waiting time has fallen within mental health, more people are getting help. But in addition, the government has done something else that is very important, namely to give priority to building up the mental health service in the municipalities, where unfortunately we took over a situation where the offer, not least to children and young people, had become increasingly poor. This has now turned around, and only in the last two years there have been 2,500 more years of mental health and drug abuse in the municipalities. Not least, what is now happening is that we are building an offer of psychological competence in all the municipalities of the country, so that children and young people can get early help. Most people who face a mental health challenge get it for the first time in their childhood and youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3714	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3719	There is broad agreement on the main lines of Norwegian foreign and defence policy. That's good, because as Jonas Gahr Støre said in his post earlier today, there are more disturbing times around us. In the 1990s, we were glad that elections were held in far more countries than before. Democracy was on the rise when communism fell to the east, dictatorships razed in Latin America, and in South Africa Nelson Mandela moved from a prison cell to the president's office after the country's first free elections in 1994. Today, we see that elections are used by authoritarian leaders to strengthen their power base. But there is no free choice with real competition, because the courts are not independent, and the freedom of the press is restricted. Political leaders are using aggressive rhetoric, not the common interests of states, but the contradictions are underlined. I fear that international cooperation, law and law and agreements between countries are now being replaced more strongly by the law of the strongest. That is why we are concerned when our main allies turn their backs on the Paris Agreement, the Iran Agreement, the World Trade Organisation and other UN organisations. We have to see what they're doing, not just what they're saying, it's important -- we hear the government parties say about our most important ally. Yes, we have good cooperation, especially in the field of defence. In both national and international policies, however, words are also acts. I stunned a little this morning when I heard from the parliamentary leader of the Left that the Workers' Party is irresponsible in defence policy – the Left, the party that would postpone investment in fighter aircraft and surveillance aircraft, absolutely crucial capacities for the defence of Norway. If it's irresponsible to want to fulfill the agreement on army and home protection, which the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party actually signed last autumn, I wonder what the government parties really want. They got a good deal, but it is not followed up by the government. Material investment in the Army is being put on hold and pushed out in ongoing investigations. The army in inner Troms is proposed to be built down, decisions are not taken, for this government was unable to deliver a comprehensive defence plan that also included army and home security. It must not happen again. Nor will the Workers' Party accept extensive privatisation of the defence workshops, or that cleaners who have worked in the Defense for 30 years are being deprived of millions of pensions. Changes in Defense are good, but taking out good adult ladies' well-deserved pension crowns creates insecurity; it doesn't create a better defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3734	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3739	We must be better integrated into Norway, because few jobs and depend on ourselves. In recent years, only 61 pst. of those who have implemented the intro programme, progressed to work or education, and only a few hours of work gives positive figures. This is not good enough. The road to self-sufficiency is long. We see that many immigrant women are out of work. There are wide variations from municipality to municipality when it comes to the quality of integration work. Much is random, and it's too little coordinated. There are too many barriers. A settlement policy with a conscious strategy for where newly arrived refugees can get the best start is absent. Child poverty in Norway has increased significantly in a short time. In many families, there are many children and only one adult at work. Differences are increasing. Residential areas need a boost, so that children and young people have good reproductive environments and good role models. Too many grow up under poor housing conditions, where poverty is inherited. We have to move away from random integration work to quality and requirements. We must make requirements for housing, requirements for municipalities, requirements for building up barriers that prevent qualification, and requirements for the individual. For the goal is clear: you have to stand on your own feet. It's important to you and your family. It is important for the welfare community of Norway. We have to make demands, and we have to make demands. The Labour Party, as the only political party, has worked hard on the whole of immigration and integration policy. The committee I have led suggests reforming the entire housing policy, so that we get a proper integration from day one. Before coming to Norway, refugees must learn about the most important Norwegian values, freedom, democracy, equality, and that the line of work applies. It means careful monitoring of the individual refugee, so that the refugee's competence matches that of the municipality where there is the greatest probability of entering the labour force. This means setting requirements for municipalities — labour market, cooperation with educational institutions, cooperation with businesses and access to language-based areas. The whole integration work shall be coordinated from day one. It immediately means running with Norwegian, competence, professional letter and work. As important as qualification, it is that refugees are included in a strong community — living in Norway, one must also become part of Norway. That is why we say that municipalities should no longer be able to settle refugees in areas with major living conditions challenges, where there is no Norwegian and unemployment is high. With these proposals, we will contribute to better participation in the labour market and to the success of integration policy even better than what we are doing in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3756	The languages of the throne contained a few words about the great challenges facing us. A few of them were as follows: Norway needed to be able to convert, and there was a need to have good welfare arrangements. I therefore noted that on the challenge of the Minister of Health from an Labour Party representative on the Right had taken responsibility for some good welfare arrangements, the Minister of Health claimed responsibility for a Right-leaded government presenting the People's Security Act. So that's not right. When we talk about migration needs and we talk about being good welfare arrangements, we have to fund it. The big maintenance run on our roads has been one of the big issues of summer debate, both in the media and among people who have traveled around the country. The former Minister of Transport took part in the debate with usual zeal and claimed that he and the current government could not be charged with bad county roads at all. Or, in other words, the former Minister for Transport did not want to take responsibility for enabling Norway to go through the transition we have to undergo. I record that the Minister of Fisheries has now entered the Chamber, and he is going to work for an industry that is one of the new industries and that actually requires good transport years. Most fishing transport starts on a county road, and the fact is that after 2010, when they took over large parts of the national road network, county municipalities have done a good job within the financial framework they have at their disposal. In other words, they have made it possible for society to be in transition. The percentage of roadway with poor or very poor tyre standard has actually dropped from 45 pst. for about 40 pst. in recent years. The county councils have therefore been responsible for their responsibilities consciously distorting budgetary resources in such a way that more goes into the way and other infrastructure. Yet, it's growing totally retarded. Government parties have pushed this challenge in front of them, asking that the matter of putting in place a proper programme to re-enter the county roads has been put at risk until the rolling of the national transport plan. Poorer county road standards are a daily problem for people throughout the country, especially for business in the districts. Our growing marine and aquaculture industries depend on the increasing speed of transport from manufacturing plants, which are often located along a coastal country road. In a few days' time, the Government shall submit its draft budget for 2019. I fear that we can again see a budget that does not correspond to what the Minister for Transport claims he has done, and what he wants to implement. For it is now time that the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Local Affairs are in the same government. It is the municipal minister who is responsible for ensuring that county councils have sufficient budgetary frameworks to facilitate both regional development and good infrastructure measures, precisely so that our growing economy along the coast can contribute to increased export revenue and thus better well-being. So the thread is drawn from the People's Security Act and up to our roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3771	As so many others have said here from the pulpit today: Norway is a good country to live in. Norway is a country with many possibilities for everyone to live a good life, with a high population, with large natural resources, with relatively small differences, and with an open economy that contributes to efficient production and trade. The situation now is that the unemployment rate is low, the activity in the petroleum industry has increased, and the part in work is increasing. NHO writes in its quarterly report: ‘Norway sails in downwind.’ [[...]] The movement of this government is historically high. Together with the Christian People's Party, the government has worked out a national transport plan for 2018-2029, amounting to over 1000 billion. kr in government funds and tolls during the planning period. It is fun to travel around the county with the Transport and Communications Committee and experience the great construction activity and the many meetings with local and state politicians who present their projects. In my home country, Telemark, work is in progress on a large transport project, and in the fall it has been the opening of a new railway between Larvik and Porsgrund. There is a project that reduces travel time between Larvik and Telemark from 32 to 12 minutes, a project with a cost of 7 billion. kr. The new rail system will result in a link between the new region of Vestfold and Telemark, and there will be a denser labour market region. Every year, industry has pointed out that the best form of industrial development is commitment to transport and infrastructure. It's fundamental to building and feeding. This is also a good rural policy. It is the best tool for creating growth and development in the districts. The investment in new technology is a priority of this government. Norway is one of the most digitised countries in the world, and it has given us a wide range of services like cashless trading and financial services on mobile phones. We interact more and more with the public electronically, and we have real-time traffic information, which allows us to find the most appropriate route between two places, for example. Autonomous means of transport will be placed on the market and the legislation will be in place for testing autonomous vehicles. It is exciting that the first non-leaded whole-electric container ship in the world, Yara Birkeland, is now under construction, and it is extra joy that the contract went to Vard Brevik in Telemark. With the Right in Government, a continued commitment to viable solutions that function and contribute to a climate-friendly transport sector will be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3789	I have to admit that I'm excited about the big message that the government is going to provide, about how to reduce differences. I think it would surprise me and many others here in this room about this message coming to something other than universal welfare schemes paid by the community, work for everyone and a salary to live off. And of any new measures that could have a strong impact in the short term, an increase in child-restraint is worth mentioning. In the longer term, I believe that the school plays a major role in smoothing out the differences. The future is on the brink today. And we know that free school food will remove a lot of learning disorders from some elephants, maybe from those who need it all the most, to let go of hanging later in the course. Furthermore, when you hear the debate here today, you can get the impression that both the Right, the Left and even the Progress Party are busy reducing the differences. The Prime Minister says that small differences are good. It's not hanging on to anything. Representatives from the government are standing here bluffing. They are pursuing a policy tailored to all, the richest. It's the opposite of reducing the differences. It doesn't look good to stand here on Stortinget's speaking chair and present such a game to the gallery. Finally, for this debate, I would say that one of the best tricks to reduce differences is a much fairer tax policy, where the rich pay more than they do today. It just doesn't hurt anything. One should increase child welfare, provide free school food to all young people in this country and lead a policy that benefits everyone, not just the richest. A policy of small differences is not what the right-hand side stands for, so one should be honest about it. Norway is the country of the OECD, where differences are increasing all the better, and it is with the policy of today's government. Stop giving gifts to these Tesla people!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3801	The President would point out that the expression 'bluffed' is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3806	I could be tempted to say that's exactly what she did. It must be timely to ask, after having heard, among other things. The representative of Terje Aasland from this pulpit, if you know any country that has lower leave, are safer, where people are more satisfied at work or have a better welfare system than this country. The Reality Description for, inter alia: The representative of Aasland does not agree with the experience I have where I come from, where we have seen more and more vacant hands come to work in the last year, more ships have begun sailing again, more seafarers are back to work. Over half of the municipalities in my county now have an unemployment rate of 2 pst. or lower, and three of the municipalities have so low leave that, for privacy reasons, it is not allowed to publish the data because it is too easy to identify those who are unemployed. Last year and the year before when we had this debate, unemployment was the big issue – and maybe the next year as well. The leader of the Labour Party said, among other things: in 2016: ‘In the field of work, the results of the right-hand party government are very weak. On their watch, hardly any new jobs are created and three out of four have entered the public sector.’ [[...]] And on the other hand, ‘After three years with billions of ‘growth-promoting tax relief’, growth is low and unemployment is record high. The large job creator in Norway, the private sector, creates hardly enough jobs.’ Last year, 33 000 jobs were created, two thirds of them came in the private sector, the private sector accounted for 77 times as many new jobs as government red tape, a further 70,000 jobs have been created this year – a total of over 100,000. The availability of young people, old people and those in the middle goes down. The employment rate, which was last year's complaint song, is rising. It is not right, as the representative of Aasland says, that the level of employment among young people is falling. According to the SSB, it is now higher than in 2016, and the increase is strongest among young men. It goes the right way for the first time in a long time. Then it seems tax-free, then, when unemployment sinks. Yes, it may seem that even the Workers' Party believes. For when a desired level of organisation is increased, the solution is tax-free or higher deduction from the union quota. If it works on organisation, yes, it might work on job creation as well. When the private sector creates jobs, and more jobs are created, one would think there were some good words, but no. Instead, the pursuit of private jobs continues, whether they are now called welfare professionals or franchisees, needs temporary staff or hires out requested skills. Enquiring more jobs in the private sector and then attacking the sector's ability to create jobs through increased taxes, bans and new regulations is an exercise of its own. Freedom goes down, but you want a new course. Employment goes up, but you want a new course. Youth unemployment goes down, but it's called for a new course. Recordmange gets apprenticeships and diplomas, but you want a new course. The numbers of absenteeism go down, but you want a new course. That's how we can keep going. Even more ships flag home and more seafarers get jobs, but you want a new course. We don't need a new course, we don't need old ideas and bad solutions, we need to continue the good development that is now created.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3831	The Central Party believes that Norway should be a good country to live in, no matter where you live, and no matter what the social background. The forces of centralization in society are strong, regardless of who is in power in the government quarter. That's why the Center Party believes that we need to pursue an active district policy for decentralisation, housing and value creation across the country. We need to be able to provide equivalent services in areas such as social security and preparedness, health, school and care for the elderly, wherever in the country people live. Children and young people must have access to equivalent high-quality schools and high-quality education in both rural and urban areas. It is just as important to ensure full coverage of the high-speed Internet now that it was once to add electricity and water across the country. Police and county officials must be present and prevent in the community and not be laid down. People have to be able to trust that the ambulance is in place when it's in minutes to save a life. We differ radically from the Solberg government, which has instead chosen to strengthen the centralisation forces of society with the policy that has been pursued in the last five years. Unfortunately, there were no signs of improvement in yesterday's throne speech, for it is being added to the continuation of coercive mergers and centralizing reforms, which we have seen so far. Centralisation is in the process of irreparable damage throughout Norway, which will make it very difficult to live in large areas of the future of District Norway. Services are centralised away from people, preparedness and emergencies are in many places heavily at stake, and democracy is weakened when decision-makers, power and resources are centralised away from people and there are fewer elected peoples to represent the people. We don't have to go further than to our neighboring country to see what happens if you choose to go away from an active district policy. In Norway, we have been very fortunate for a long time because the population has had a high level of confidence in decision-makers and politicians compared to other countries. But that confidence wears out when centralization and state overgovernment are on a steady march from south to north without its anchoring in the population. We in the Center Party will in the future have landed in a completely different direction than the Solberg government adds. We will stop involuntary coup d'états, we will ensure a real close-up police force, we will ensure an equivalent and full-fledged ambulance service, we will strengthen defence and home security and secure preparedness to secure the population throughout the country. We want Norway to continue to be characterised by quality of life, housing and value creation throughout the country. This is going to be a very exciting harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3844	In yesterday's throne speech, it was actually very little about the most vulnerable and advanced in our society. In Norwegian prisons, there are over 4,000 people. Most people have low education, low income, the majority have a drug problem, a difficult one with a lot of violence and abuse – many sad stories. Yes, there are those who come to Norway with the aim of committing crime, and of course they will face severe reactions. But the goal of criminal care is to rehabilitate the prisoners into a life of freedom, without any new crime. Unfortunately, rehabilitation is a bad thing. It is now announced from Norwegian prisons – I have traveled around and visited many of them – that criminal services go too lye and cold water. Employees report poor maintenance, cuts in the number of employees, more lock-in of prisoners, cuts in rush and sensory programmes. These bad conditions lead to more violence and threats to employees, and unfortunately, many prison inmates struggle to return to a life of freedom. The progress party has been in control of this for five years, and the situation has only worsened. So that's a crazy situation. We can't understand it any other way. It is a wild situation that conditions in Norwegian prisons and Norwegian criminal services have worsened. Why is that so, I wonder. And now one has to hold on, because now there are some strong statements – not from me, but from someone else. I got an answer as to why this is so, perhaps a partial response, when I read former Minister of Justice Listhaug's considerations about Norwegian criminal justice. She said a few years ago that the standard had to be kept bad because prison stays are going to sweat. ‘Criminals should be tormented in prison’, she said. There are rather dry statements, and that with such attitudes a few years after that she could become Minister of Justice, she was quite perceptive. I doubt that the Minister of Justice is in favour of these statements, but I have not heard it confirmed that he does not. SV believes that the Progress Party has totally misunderstood when they want tougher conditions in Norwegian prisons. It's dangerous, and it's wrong to believe that bad reconciliation deters criminals. The type of prison they want will produce more crime rather than rehabilitating prisoners, and it will help to reproduce inequality and injustice. This is a recipe for a worse society. The countries with the most severe penalties and the worst settlement conditions are also the countries with the most brutality and crime problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3857	For the Labour Party, it is important that we have a justice policy that is linked, because everything is related to everything. The police shall be accessible to people and the proceedings of the courts shall be effective. Anyone who violates the law should be punished as deserved, and if you go to prison, you should receive help so that you can return to the community as a good neighbour. In order for all of us to be able to live safe and good lives, such a coherent justice policy is the cornerstone itself. This is the foundation of our rule of law. Unfortunately, this government does not seem to take justice policy seriously. The result is that the police are setting up cases with a known perpetrator, and cases that have been investigated remain pending a prosecution decision, with a risk of major criminal penalties. We have over time received serious feedback from prisons about increasing the use of coercion and isolation against prisoners. Threats and violence have become more common to employees. Good rehabilitation offers have been withdrawn from prisons — not because employees lack competence, but because of repeated cuts from the government over the years. Thus highly qualified personnel are charged with cell lock-in and lock-out. Both employees and prisoners respond. They tell us that the goal of all going back to society as good neighbors is a vision that keeps slipping further into the blue. And this is happening with the Progress Party in the Minister of Justice chair. The Progress Party has long been very high and dark in law and order, but the Justice Policy of the Progress Party is a mockery of victims of crime. The time when the Right Party and the Advance Party could call themselves law and order parties is too far past. The government likes to brag about the cuts in prison queues, but in reality they have moved the cows to the police and the courts. The result is that innocent people are in line while the robbers get a penalty discount. The warnings from the police, the prosecution authority and the criminal services have been clear and clear, but the government continues the cuts with open eyes. The working party cannot accept it, and we follow up on what we have agreed in Stortinget. The police will pick up the phone when someone has been subjected to crime, and the investigation will be prioritised. We want to enable the courts to deal with what has now become the FrP queues, by people waiting for their cases to be dealt with. This is about the legal security of people, and it's about safe neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3876	We have also heard in this debate that a lot is going well here to land, and we should be glad about that. At the same time, we must not forget that there is someone who cannot sit around the party table covered with increased wealth and financial security. The proportion of children in poor families tripled between 2001 and 2015. What does this really mean in practice? The growth report to Bufdir is quite clear in its answer: bad finances negatively affect children both directly and indirectly. One in ten children in Norway today grow up with a continuing concern about whether their family has what it needs. Things that nine out of ten children take for granted, that they can take part in leisure activities with their peers, that they get books and educational material they need, that they can go to friends' birthday parties, that they get to go on vacation, that they get healthy food on the table – all that we parents know is crucial for a good and safe upbringing is far from of course for nearly 100,000 of our children. The Christian People's Party has every year negotiated strengthened appropriations to combat child poverty, but we realize that there is time for even greater power. Here is a strengthening of child-responsiveness. But in addition, we need to mobilise on several fronts: politicians have to play along with volunteering, school, sports and the churches. Together, we can make the trend turn around. Together, we can see to it that more children are freed from child poverty. This is such an important matter for the Christian People's Party that one of the first things we do this fall is to invite all the parties on the Stortinget to a seminar on how to combat child poverty. Together with the Red Cross, and hopefully the Blue Cross and the City Mission of the Church, we put the theme on the agenda now at the end of October and hope that it can also set the tone for the budgetary work and the political year ahead of us. We must not forget who is most in need of policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3887	The languages of the throne give us the opportunity and perspective to talk about the development of society, and yesterday, several challenges were pointed out in Norway. Our policy is to find good solutions to real challenges, in a changing society. I record that Finnmark is being used as an example of the fact that the police reform has not been successful. It is regrettable that more people here claim it. Chief of Police Ellen Katrine Körde has himself stated that the reform has been successful for them. Although they have a long standing, the reform is a development in the right direction. The district works better prevention, and they get more recruits. Using more resources and new technology, the police district averted a sexual assault on a child in Finnmark who was about to happen. The ‘Operation Dark Time’ is therefore a good example of why the near-police reform is successful in areas with greater distances. For this child, who could become a victim, and for other children, a modern police force is important. We must prevent children from being subjected to violence and abuse. The near-police reform is part of the tool we have to do it. The police need to have more specialisation and new technical equipment and get a new way of working. Recently, at Alta Lensmann's office, Kenneth Nilsen stated to Altaposten that the Tysfjord case could not be done in Finnmark. It's safe for us. That's why we're putting about our police districts, so they're equipped to deal with many new types of challenges. Every day, the Nordics are being tried to cheat on the Internet, and the reform of the police must also be a solution to their problems. Crime on the Web is more demanding to investigate, and the public out there expects serious theft to be taken as seriously as other thefts. The close police reform shall be there for our children, the children shall have protection, and they shall have the opportunity to report and prosecute unlawfully the dissemination of images. The dissemination of infringing images can do a lot of damage to the person who is exposed to such a spread. It got the whole experience of Norway when one of our biggest handball heroes experienced just this. Our society is developing, and then our most important institutions must also be developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3902	The Center Party believes in all of Norway. We fight for services near people. We fight for security, preparedness and security in everyday life for people. We fight for Norwegian interests and jobs. We are fighting for people to be listened to and taken seriously, and we are going to facilitate people to live, work and live a good life throughout Norway. In meeting this, we see government parties systematically centralising Norway. We see government parties that weaken preparedness both locally and nationally. We see government parties shut down inside closed meeting rooms and exaggerate popular resistance. And we see government parties introducing ever-new taxes, without investigation and without dialogue, and disappointing jobs out of the country. Today, early on, we were met by industrial workers who know the results of the government's tax policy. There are people who have lost their jobs, there are large investments that have been put on ice, and traditional businesses, like Oskar Sylte, and Roma in Lillestrøm, are in danger. It's urgent to change. Charges for those who act in Norway must be reduced and the subsidisation of foreign online shops must be eliminated. The regional reform created uprisings among the people and people elected in Norway. 87 pst. voted against the coercion of the government by referendum in Finnmark. So in my own county, Akershus, one with Buskerud and Østfold is to be combined with coercion, against popular opinion in all states, against what is the majority of the people elected in all counties, and against the advice of those who are responsible for social security and preparedness in the counties. Their sentence on the Viken is slaughter. They say that with the Week there will be increased vulnerability and weakened conditions to ensure social security and preparedness in our area. The fold will be a giant region, a meaningless construction that will not solve any problems and will help to centralize both services and decisions. This fight against regional reform is not over. We're going to stand up for what people and people around the country stand for. We're going to fight for public opinion and provide a different direction on the course in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3917	The Labour Party and the Centre Party have spent a lot of time criticising the near-police reform this day. There's a horror picture drawn by the Norwegian police about how bad things are. This is directly unreasonable and also remote from reality. The Norwegian police were analysed after July 22nd. The Djørv Commission and the police analysis were crystal clear in their conclusions – we needed a new police force. We follow this up – we carry out the biggest police reform in Norway. The Labour Party and the Centre Party choose to blackmail instead of contributing to a successful reform process. Every year with the Right in government, the police have been budget winners. We've spent a total of 1.8 billion. New employment in the police department. This corresponds to 2,300 – yes, I even heard that the Council of State adjusted it to 2,600 – more colleagues in the police case. We earmark money separately for the reform work. We've given 400 million to the police districts. kr in free funds this year, and the spade is set in the ground on Taraldrud, where the new emergency centre is to be located. This summer it peaked, with increasing violence and crime among gangs in the east of Oslo, and the Minister of Justice followed up last week. The government's inflating 70 million. to combat this. There will be new police helicopters. The response rate has been extended by 50 pst. New response time requirements have been introduced in each police district and measurements show compliance. Consumer surveys show that confidence in the police is still high among the population. Nevertheless, the black paint from the Workers' Party and the Center Party continues. Police director Humlegård could recently indicate that several cases with a known perpetrator are being resolved. Nevertheless, the Labour Party and the Center Party paint black. A February diffi report concludes that the reform is demanding, but that we are on track. Nevertheless, the black paint from the Workers' Party and the Center Party continues. They may not escape such untruths and allegations of breach of the lift. This historical reform has not been completed by 2020. So it's going to be over two years before we can harvest the fruits to the full. In the meantime, you can choose to draw an incorrect picture of reality and mislead the voters into thinking that everything is going the wrong way, or else you can contribute constructively to the process, so that we get the best possible result and the best possible police. In particular, we should be able to expect this from the Workers' Party, which was involved in the adoption of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3934	The path to self-sufficiency and the ability to stand on one's own legs is far too many. We must create freedom for the individual, molded by and in a community. If we are to get more people to work, we must make demands on the training and the qualification offered. If we are to cope with this, we need to invest in language training and working practices for those who are being trained in the introduction programme, in the qualification programme and in adult training. The Norwegian model is based on education and competence for all. It is this line of competence that has given us the unique combination of efficiency and cohesion. The working party will not push down wages to get more people to work. A low-wage strategy focusing on the development of simpler jobs will undermine the essence and success of the Nordic model. We will focus on enhancing skills and combating social dumping and temporaryity and ensuring a serious working life with a high level of organisation. It is crucial in the face of a constantly changing working life, especially as a result of digitisation and new technologies, and in order to avoid increasing disparities. I am particularly proud of what we have done in my city at adult education at Helsfyr. As the first municipality, we established a pilot class in health care ten years ago, where we wanted to integrate language training into vocational training. The target group is adult immigrants with completed primary school, but who lack Norwegian skills to complete the ordinary course for secondary education. The Helsfyr model is now adopted by municipalities in addition to the country. We're proud of that in Oslo. Several municipalities should be given the opportunity to provide training that gets people to work. At Helsfyr, the principal says: ‘We have been working on this for ten years now and work well across the board, but it has been difficult to manage the funding.’ It is now time to give priority to projects that will enable people to live on their own income after a training course has ended. The Labour Party will make an offensive effort on the fast track into the labour market to provide a real alternative for refugees who are close to the labour market. Mountain municipalities have gone new ways. The municipality itself has created ten project positions for refugees. One of those who is a major caseworker is Yusef. He himself says that the key to him is that he hears Norwegian all day long. Municipalities like Oslo and Fjell are brave and dare to test out new models. How long will municipalities wait for a government to see that prioritizing projects that get people into work is profitable both for individuals and for society? It's time to take structural action, not just travel country and beach around and give praise to the municipalities that get people out to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3953	In the government statement, the three government parties stated that Norway must change, so that we can meet our climate obligations and take care of nature. It has to be focused on new green technology, the polluter has to pay, and we have to develop markets for zero-emission solutions. It is added to cut Norwegian climate emissions by 40 pst. in the non-quota sector in cooperation with the EU. The government has put in place a strategy to become a low-carbon society by 2050. Already in 2030, emissions shall be cut by about 40 pst. through a completely new and committed cooperation with the EU. In addition, the government will continue its work on CO2 funds for business and strengthen and professionalise efforts to combat marine pollution by, among others. to increase support for various clean-up measures. It is also necessary to facilitate the socio-economical profitable production of renewable energy in Norway. The use of new technologies can significantly reduce the negative effects of transport on climate and the environment. Climate-friendly means of transport and fuels can contribute to the transition to the low-carbon society. Today, the government is supporting the phase-in of new technologies, including: through Enova. Technological changes are expected to gradually balance the differences between modes of transport in terms of environmental and climate characteristics and transport safety. This could have a major impact on the use of the various modes of transport. In the national transport plan 2018-2029, the government strengthens freight transport in order to ensure good competitive conditions for Norwegian industry, including: by facilitating the increased use of a larger vehicle as a modular vehicle. During the planning period, the government will make large investments on the railways in order to improve the reliability and efficiency of rail freight. The government also facilitates the transport of more goods by sea and rail, especially at long distances. An incentive scheme has been established for the transfer of transport by sea and measures to stimulate more environmentally friendly and efficient ports. The government has further stimulated the use of environmentally friendly means of transport technologies, alternative fuels and to improve the efficiency of transport and logistics. The strong population growth, especially in urban areas, will generate more transport. The need for goods, services and work travel will increase as growth progresses. It is particularly important to facilitate the mobility, cycling and use of public transport. Reward agreements, urban environment agreements and urban growth agreements are state schemes that have zero growth for car passenger transport as the overall objective, and this is followed up in line with the adopted national transport plan. The Labour Party is opposed to both the rail reform and the road reform, but when the party also casts doubt on its accession to the urban environment agreements, as they do in the North-Jearen package, you can be afraid.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3970	Yesterday, it was emphasised that the government was going to grab hold of and convert the Norwegian economy to create new jobs. It's very nice, but how does the government do this in practice? In the Committee on Energy and the Environment, we have a good many areas of action that can help to create new jobs in view of the climate, but where is the openness of government in these areas? This winter we dealt with a big message about the circular economy, but there were no new national targets. It was referred to the EU, but there were no new national targets and ambitions. Government party representatives asked the government to come back with a strategy, because they have not provided policy in the big message. We're now waiting to get that strategy, and ‘that's what's going on’, while the rest of the world is doing things. The European Union has laid down its policy. The individual countries – the Netherlands, Finland, Sweden, Denmark – work with clear targets on how to address them. But we're waiting, and there won't be a lot of jobs. It is incredibly important to tackle and mix industrial development and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. A good example of this is getting hold of the CO2 fund, which the business community is busy with, and which the Storting has decided we should get in place. But instead they get a response from the government that it is Enova who is going to solve this situation. The business community has tried this before, through the NOX fund. It has been a success, it has reduced greenhouse gas emissions, it is a part of taking responsibility, and it is shown that it will take action. But the negotiations haven't even started yet, so this has to happen a little quickly if you're going to be able to get the new jobs you're actually talking about. Then we have carbon capture and storage, which could be the new, major industrial venture to Norway, but here we are also uncertain about what will happen in the state budget on Monday. Although the government has said that these are two projects that go further, it is important that funding for the next year does not just go to September. Here we actually have to fill the whole year, and we're going to keep the wheels running on the projects for investment decision making. These are exciting projects, and everyone is very clear that here you have to keep the wheels running until you have found a final solution, both on funding models and on the projects that are going to be. So boast: my highlight during yesterday's opening was the new government council in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which read in anew from the sideline here – and it just got better and better for every sentence, yes, it was stas! It's a difficult task to have, but he did my day, at least, so thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e3983	After hearing and reading the census of the year, it has to be said to be a speech of type 20 in style, but close to 0 in content. It is quite difficult to see which government is the sender, if you did not see for yourself that it was Solberg and her government that stood here on the side yesterday. There was also room in the throne for words of honor, even though the last appointed member of the government, Minister of Agriculture and Food, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has already raised doubts about whether or not he believes in man-made climate change. The centre party believes in climate change, and we will continue to follow up Norway's climate commitments by working for climate change that works. At the same time as we have to change, we need to preserve the central supports of Norwegian society with social and geographical cohesion. A good example of measures that will have a high national and international impact is carbon capture and storage. Here, too, we saw for a long time a government that lay well behind before the summer but which, after considerable pressure from business, trade, environmental movement and not least the majority in this room finally opened up to continue with two pilot projects. Another good environmental project that has had a significant impact – not on the climate side, but on the environment – is the NO x fund. Since its creation in 2008, the Fund has helped to cut more than 35 000 tonnes of NO x. It's impressive. It's cut like monks. That's why it's strange, yes, I'd say almost alarming, that a government led by the self-appointed business party Right doesn't do any more to achieve a successful cut and a fund for cutting CO 2 emissions in the large industrial transport sector – in cooperation with the business community, as industry itself strives for. In the throne, the government said it would facilitate the continued renewal of the car park to meet our climate obligations. The renewal of the car park is good. Norway has been very successful in making the private car park climate neutral. However, as soon as we did, the commercial transport has not gone, where we find the deciduous maximum emissions. The reason is logical. The measures for private cars do not have the same effect on the transport of foodstuffs. Business needs other and adapted measures to stimulate more climate-friendly transport. Business itself is impatient. They want to get started, and the solution is open today, namely a CO 2 fund à la NO x fund – a fund in which business commits themselves to CO 2 cut off the CO 2 tax. You should think that was politics right should embrace, but no. The government's signal now is that a fund must be organized through Enova. Enova has been an important tool in raising new technologies and new solutions, and it has been good. But now we need rollout, we need measures that can contribute to great climate rapidly, and then a business CO 2 fund will be a good tool in that way. What we need are measures that cut back, and that is exactly why the fund should be set up as soon as possible and the negotiations get under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4028	This year's debate on the throne has been a good debate. It has developed the main divide in Norwegian policy. On the one hand, we have right-wing government policies that in important areas contribute to weakening the community and increasing the differences between peoples, without a single concrete proposal to reverse development. The large, large majority of the population of Norway wants a different course. People want that security our common well-being means for each of us. On the other hand, we have an overall opposition consisting of the centre-left here in the Stortingen, which, in the area by area, calls for action to improve well-being and smaller differences. I would like to take up the thread from my exchange of lines earlier today with the head of the Labour and Social Committee of the Progress Party. The Labour Party has launched a clearing operation in Norwegian working life. We want decent jobs for most people. But when we clean up Norwegian working lives, we also need to clear up what comes next, namely pensions. The working party, together with SV, has made a proposal for compulsory occupational pension from the first crown for all. The representative Wiborg himself has stated publicly that he supports the principle of retirement from the first crown, but the Progress Party and the rest of the right-wing government will still not support this fair claim, because the NHO says no. NHO warns – if ordinary people get too good a pension, it weakens the workline. But the NHO says nothing about those with high management salaries, parachutes and pension agreements that others can only dream of. LO would have a pension from the first dollar into the fare settlement this year. The NHO refused and said it did not belong there, but to the legislator. When we as the legislator then take the matter, it is to interfere in the collective bargaining. So the pension from the first crown is not part of the schedule or of the Stortinget! Where does it belong? It could be interesting to get an answer to that, for example. by the head of the Labour and Social Committee of the Progress Party, which is, in fact, in favour, but nevertheless against because the NHO has said no. What's the pension from the first heads really about? Well, it's about removing the injustice that about 1 million ordinary workers are not entitled to a pension for that part of the salary that is less than NOK 97 000. Those affected then are, above all, young people, part-time employees, temporary staff, people in short-term jobs and temporary jobs, low-paid and, of course, those who become pensioners, without having the right to such earnings. For many of them, NOK 97 000 represents a large part of the annual income. These are the ones that have had little from before. The differences are reinforced by retirement age and follow them on, out of life. That's the unfairness of the Working Party and SV wants to do something about it. The right-hander says no. That's what ordinary people can notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4041	Today we have heard a number of representatives from the government parties boasting that greenhouse gas emissions fell last year. But the government doesn't cut the emissions; they cut the rainforest. The government's climate policy bathes in palm oil and rain forest destruction. Why it is a good climate action to destroy the rain forest, we have not received a response. Emissions from deforestation in developing countries account for about one-sixth of the world’s total greenhouse gas emissions, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. When Norwegian emissions fell in 2016 and 2017, under today's government, it was because we fired during this deforestation. While Norwegian consumers have managed to throw the palm oil out of the groceries, the sitting government has made sure that we fill many times more palm oil on our petrol and diesel tanks instead. Half of all biofuels used in Norway in 2017 were palm oil. However, the use of biofuels in Norway does not have to be based on palm oil. The use of advanced biofuels, e.g. waste, has also increased in 2017 — but government parties in our majority have prevented a proposal to dispose of palm oil from driving. Although the government parties in our country have stopped our proposal to put in place instruments that effectively exclude palm oil, the majority of the majority of the population have previously taken decisions to limit palm oil use, for example. through public procurement legislation. It happened a little over a year ago. Everything that has happened since then is a sharp increase in the use of palm oil in Norwegian fuel. If the government is really concerned about the rain forest damage, they come to Stortinget with a regulation to the Public Acquisitions Act that ensures that no public procurement uses biofuels based on palm oil or palm oil by-products. Following the severe drought and heat record in the summer, SV, together with the Workers' Party, have today presented 37 proposals for new emissions cut in Norway – emissions cut that does not increase emissions elsewhere or destroy the rainforest. We are eagerly waiting for the government's response. The 2012 climate agreement deliberately controls the government against breaking. The government has not made a concrete plan for Norway to achieve its emissions target by 2020. That's what SV has done. Through the two climate agreements adopted by the Stortinget, we have been able to tighten up climate policy. The ban on oil firing in private homes is one example of this. Norwegian climate policy should not be remembered for setting fire to the rainforest, but for implementing necessary and real emissions cuts. We should cut the discharges, not the rainforest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4060	This debate has been very much about increasing disparities and poverty. These are important themes, which are important for debate. But what surprises me is that the red parties almost exclusively point to tax relief or to lack of support schemes, free offers, social benefits, services and benefits as the main cause of increased differences. It is not a problem that we have many with high incomes in Norway, but if you listen to this debate, you would think it was one of Norway's biggest problems. The problem is that we do not have the right targeted measures to combat increased differences and child poverty. To achieve the right measures, we just have to stop doing more of what is not working. We need to start introducing measures that we know can have an effect, and then we need to recognise why we have increased differences in Norway. The main cause of increased differences and increasing child poverty in Norway is increased immigration. That is why we first need to address that problem – by limiting the flow to integrate those who have already arrived. We have some good actions and some good examples that can work, to take effective action where necessary. In the drama, we introduced the first municipal activity obligation for young social welfare recipients. In one day and with one poster for young social welfare recipients in the Drammen, we were able to halve the number of people who needed social assistance, saying that they had to meet up and work for the Church's Bymission to get the benefit. It worked. These came to work, got work experience, or could choose to go back to a school offer or another job offer they had. I'm a little surprised when the Workers' Party has been working for so many months on its new integration policy and the only thing they've been able to do is do something that's already done. They say we're going to have free core time in the SFO in vulnerable areas – it's already done. They will teach language, democracy, equality and social sciences – it already does. They should start integration earlier, monitor the job opportunities of each individual, run individual races and settle in those municipalities where there is the greatest opportunity for work – as the government said it will come in December. It is strange that one has not managed to find a single measure. I am at least pleased that this government has said that we should focus more on the obligation of activity and targeted measures that we know can work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4073	We are elected by the people to sit on the Storting because we have ambitions on behalf of Norway, on behalf of the people. We want to develop the homeland. Then it's important to be aware of the starting point: the whole, real state of the kingdom. Trust is a characteristic of Norway. We can leave the house door unlocked or leave the window on a wide gap. We trust that people want to do their job properly, and we trust that the tax we pay is managed sensibly. Leaders set up and take responsibility, and employees are given authority and resources to do their tasks in a good way. The labor team gets the credit when things go well. The leaders take the blame when things go wrong. Politicians set the standard – and are good role models – or do we? Can everyone here with their hand on their heart say that they see multiple sides of a case? In the debate, several have raised the issue of our trust-based society. The centre party will strike a blow for increased trust in Norway and work with a continuous trust reform. Today's government puts our willingness to cooperate and the spirit of hard work at the test of greatness, coercive mergers, tenders and outsourcing as a community project. The regional reform is being threatened, without anyone who has voted against it before, having become somewhat more convinced over time or seeing what it is to serve it for people or services. Can the representatives from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left honestly say that there will be more democracy in Finnmark, in Troms, in Telemark, in Westfold, in Buskerud, in Akershus, in Eastfold, in Sogn and Fjordane, in Hordaland, in Hedmark or in Uppland with their policies? Rarely has it been so important with pointed elbows and to be the best in the class of government's square theory test as now. When it's only collected in the first place, it's hard to feel good enough or included in the community. Students in the school class have it tougher than ever. Psychiatric and psychosomatic disorders are being detected in younger and younger children. Loneliness is more uncovered. The media is talking about it as a school disaster. In addition, we have failed to teach, with a fourth requirement in mathematics that does not recognise the offer of teacher training offering for the development of teacher candidates, as well as the separation of thousands of teachers and the learning standard with centralising economic incentives. The future can look tough in the short term, whether it's health, rent or homework. Fortunately, the Centre Party will continue to pledge its option to teachers, students and a trust-based society in order to improve the state of the kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4086	There is a lot of good going on in Norway, but the challenges are always in line. The biggest challenge we have before us is building a sustainable welfare society for the future. We want the children who are growing up today to experience a Norway where there is security for well-being and the state of the planet. I myself am involved in politics because I want to be involved in making a difference. I am not concerned with reforms primarily to change Norway, but because Norway has changed. SV and Red later to have taken over the steering wheel on the left-hand side. The two parties, together with the Workers' Party, draw scary images of how things stand in our country – images are fortunate to be recognized in. In tonight's debate, they use rhetoric to try to create differences bigger than they are. Ideal and private actors contributing to family freedom of choice, increased quality of offers and opportunities for more are being reduced by the left to simple welfare professionals who are suspected of being out of control of the system. When a single left-hand side now calls for the release of ideal and private actors from well-being, it is to put the system ahead of individuals. There are good and bad private actors, just as there are good and bad public and ideal actors. Providing bad services should have consequences, whether public or private. The right is concerned with good welfare services for residents, and it is irrelevant which logo the assistant or nursery assistant has on the jacket. The most important thing is that the users are satisfied, and that the employees thrive. The right will have a diverse welfare sector where those who have a good idea of how services can become even better will have the opportunity to test out just this. It contributes to innovation, quality and good care. It's not welfare professionals; it's the opposite of welfare innovators. In the real world, for example, we see. in Oslo that private nursing homes are best experienced. We saw the same thing in my city, Moss, both for nursing homes, for home care and for kindergartens. Of course, Red and SV are profit-making in well-being. They're against profit in general. But from the Workers' Party, this is a whole new tone. The Labour Party wants us not to learn from those who do better, just because they are private. The challenge for the Workers' Party this fall will be to respond to how many services they will re-communalise – where is the border going? To create a sustainable welfare society, the Right believes we have to play on our entire society, not just half.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4097	In my view, the census was an expression that the government has resigned. There was a talk with a few new ideas and getting new solutions. There was no tool to create stronger communities and smaller differences. The right-wing party will continue to privatize, and when the representative of Greece asks why private food does not taste as good as public food, when we say that postponing cooking in hospitals is a bad idea, it clearly shows that the problem is not understood at all. Instead of postponing competition, the Labour Party will have stronger communities, where people have stable, secure jobs with decent pay and good pensions, and where the tax credits go to the elderly in the hospital, not to a commercial company that is going to carry a surplus, so that the owners are satisfied. Therefore, we want those who work in the kitchen in the hospital or with cleaning facilities to be part of the community. Therefore, we will give priority to safe work for everyone and have a pension from the first penny. We also want to call about the volunteers and ideals, and we work with and not against our districts. The working party will spend the large amount of money on the major tasks: our hospitals, care and schooling in the municipalities. We want to make sure that municipalities can afford to do more to give more children a good upbringing, more family time to each other and more older ones an active and worthwhile old age. We will ensure security for work and work – not tax cuts for the richest. The TV action, which this year goes to the Church's Bymission, says that 150 000 Nordics don't feel enough to eat in a year. There are 100,000 children growing into poverty. This is in our country, which is run by the Right Party, and which has prioritised tax cuts of NOK 2000 to the richest. We experience a wilder, wetter and more dangerous weather – first a dry summer and now a fall where in the west we have hardly seen blue sky. It's shown us how vulnerable we are. This is precisely why we need to set clear targets for spills in Norway, precisely because we need to support the technology development of our companies that promote electrification and cut emissions, and that is precisely why we need to call about our power-generating industry and not accept poorer framework conditions for the companies that create our export products. We are comforted by the fact that, compared to other countries, there are still small differences and high trust between people in Norway, but instead of the right-wing government's policy, which weakens the community and increases the differences, the Labour Party will have fair distribution, a diverse society and security for work and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4114	Has Norway been a safer country with the Right-led government? I'm going to focus most on Defense in that context, but I just have to say that in Sogn and Fjordane, the police coverage is now lower than before the police reform: one police officer per 1,000 inhabitants. It's gone down compared to before. There are seven shifty settings. One tries to protect the security, but of course it goes beyond preventive work and the job that the police are going to do to investigate and bring cases before the courts. The economy decides, says Arne Johannessen, who is the leader of the police in Sogn and Fjordane. Is that acceptable? - No, no, no, no. So to the defense, the government has put down the Maritime Protection, a capacity that costs $80 million. kr per year. The result is that the Coast Guard now has to go away from its primary mission and support the Home Protection in object protection tasks. This weakens Norway's ability to ensure the sustainable management of our maritime resources. The hearing in connection with the Riksrevision's criticism of the government in relation to object protection is clear. The Land Power Proposition confirmed that Norway is still to have an army organized as a mechanised brigade and with tanks as an important part of the battle plan. Nevertheless, the government will postpone the purchase of tanks until after 2025. Despite the fact that one has a good deal, with which the Labour Party is so satisfied, the government does not follow up on the agreement. With the proposal from the government, Norway will be the only country among our allies with a modern army that does not have helicopter support for its army. Similarly, the Maritime Defense Department has given up the fact that the NH90 helicopter comes into the air at some point. The same is Coast Guard. And the closure of the 2nd Battalion will have a negative impact, and a ruining the structure of the last Brigade Norway has. The center party wants Norway, like our many close allies, to go to the purchase of new tanks now. There is a great process, and the Center Party has therefore submitted a proposal today on the purchase of new tanks. We ask the government to ensure that the project with the purchase of new fighting vehicles for the Army starts during 2018. The government has also cut the Home Guard with 5,000 soldiers. The report from the Riksrevision shows that we need the Home Office. The most important task of all governments is to ensure the security of the inhabitants. Today's government is weakening the security of Norway, the security that people should have, wherever they live in the country. There won't be a stronger defense of strong rhetoric. It has to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4133	I want to talk about differences – differences between people and differences between parties. In Norway, we have small differences, we tend to say. But is it really like this? The richest of us are good for a two-digit billion, while the poorest don't even have a two-digit bank deposit. And do we really agree that we want small differences, when the government chooses to give 160 times more in tax cuts to the richest of the rich, while ordinary people get about a ten a day before government tax increases? The sum is a deliberate policy for increasing differences. It is very much to be proud of in our healthcare system, but I am not quite so proud that in 2017 for the first time we reached over half a million Norwegians with private health insurance. Private health insurance provides the opportunity to get ahead in line – in front of someone who needs more help. Private health insurance also states that Community health insurance is no longer good enough. The government's answer is not to rust up our health care system. The government’s response is ABE-cut – red tape and efficiency cut in hospitals – or simply cut, cutting that makes it harder to treat more patients faster, better and with more advanced treatment methods, cutting that makes it harder to build a healthcare system that we can be even more proud of. This is a good thing if a person wants to facilitate more private health insurance and increasing health differences between people. Even regional reform enables the government to set up such a way that it is suitable for creating centralisation and increasing disparities. In East-Agder, a narrow majority secured a yes to a merger with West-Agder – a voluntary merger that promised more jobs to Arendal and East-Agder. Nav and the State Road Service were supposed to help. But rather than increasing the number of these jobs, it's now getting fewer. And ask a councillor what she wants to do with this, she honestly answers: nothing. A small piece of Norway that already has tough living conditions challenges must therefore only sail its own sea, according to the government. It provides a conscious policy for increasing differences between people and between the different parts of the country. We need more ambition than that for our country – for people. We need ambitions about good services and jobs across the country and a goal that the need for health care should determine what kind of treatment you receive, not the wallet and not health insurance. It should be allowed to be rich in Norway, but if you're a billionaire, you've probably become it not only because of your own work, but also little because of others. Then it is not entirely unreasonable to contribute a little more to someone who does not have the same strong back, or to say the words of a politician from earlier times: no one should have cake until everyone has had bread. It should also apply to the priorities that politicians do in this room in 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4147	The challenges associated with changing climates need to be addressed both through mandatory international cooperation and through national measures. Then we are not just talking about measures that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The summer behind us is probably a sign that climate change is already happening at a disturbing pace and much faster than anyone could predict at the beginning of the century. It will give a new, and I would say quite daunting, challenge form for Norwegian agriculture. The drought we experienced in the summer resulted in the supply of Norwegian cereals to the food and feed industry in 2018 being 55 p.m. the average over the last five years, according to a forecast from the Joint Purchase. In some of the country’s main cereal regions, crops are reported down to 30-40 pst. of the average. In parts of the country, there has been a similar significant failure in the roughage crops, and a forecast from the Directorate of Agriculture shows that payments from the crop damage scheme for 2018 can be about. Bn. 1,3 kr. The experience of the drought summer 2018, not only in Norway, but in large parts of Europe, clearly shows that the food safety we all take for granted cannot be guaranteed in the years or decades to come. There is reason to believe that extreme climate variations will affect entire parts of the world. This also makes it impossible for us to assume that, as one of the world's richest countries, we can buy out of a global supply crisis in the future. On 6 February this year, the Stortinget examined a proposal for a representative on enhanced preparedness through a stronger soil protection and food storage. For some batches, the requirement for the re-establishment of stockpiles of cereals defeide as a constructed problem was considered because food safety in Norway was considered good in the foreseeable future. Nevertheless, a majority voted in favour of a proposal which was first promoted by the Christian People's Party, and which the other opposition parties stood behind, with the following wording: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote its own case for the Storting during 2019 for the establishment of national stockpiles of cereals.’ In a special comment in the committee position, we made it clear in the Christian People's Party that by 2025 at the latest, national stockpiles of cereals will have to be re-established in Norway. And when we in the Christian People's Party talk about the stockpiling of cereals, we have programmed that it should apply to both cereals and cereal seed. There is a clarification that has become unpleasant this year, as it has been found that Norway does not actually have seed stockpiles. As a result, parts of the year’s cereal crops in Norway, which are basically catastrophically poor, have to be set aside for the 2019 growing season. The Christian People's Party meets the case of the emergency storage of cereals, which the Stortinget has ordered from the government during the calendar year 2019. We believe that the summer 2018 experience should encourage the government to start work on this matter as quickly as possible. It should be possible to deal with a case concerning the stockpile storage of cereals during the spring of 2019, and the case should, in our opinion, cover the emergency situation for both cereals and cereal seed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4165	All children deserve safe growth regardless of the size of their parents’ wallet. One of the worst consequences of the increasing differences in power and wealth is the increasing child poverty. Since the last debate on the throne, we have actually rounded over a hundred thousand children growing up in poor families in this country – over a hundred thousand, it's nothing but a national distribution crisis, helped by the unsocial cut from the blue government in total from housing support via the children's supplement for deportation to increased excesses in health services. Under this government, we have received both 108 billionaires and a record child poverty – at the same time. In my hometown, Sarpsborg, now grows over 17 p.m. of all children in poverty. It is a fundamental unfair consequence of a policy rigged for the few at the expense of the many. But not least, there is a crisis for each child – who has to go home from school when his friends go to football training. The government beats itself on the chest with money for relieving schemes for children in poverty. It's fine, but we can't just deal with alms. We need to raise the family economy through increased child welfare and more parental death funds if we are to help children out of poverty. We cannot just create needs-tested schemes, stigmatizing special schemes. No, we need to create open and free meeting places where all children can meet on an equal footing through leisure and cultural experiences for everyone. Difference Norway and a system rigged for the few, at the expense of the many, hit the children especially. It also happens to our most vulnerable kids, those who need care and protection from child protection. These vulnerable children are being offered today, so that commercial operators can take advantage of them and take advantage of them. Community funds to improve the protection and care of children disappear into child protection barons and tax havens. Children need to know what life is like tomorrow, next month and next year. Children must not be insecure because their home can suddenly disappear or change dramatically because a commercial bidding round threatens around the next turn. Our welfare services and the protection of the vulnerable must be about people, not about markets. Child protection must be about children, not about the store.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4186	In the census, it was referred to the Jeleya platform as the basis for the government's work. Here the government says that one will further develop the best in the Norwegian model, and thinks it is a competitive advantage for Norway with an equal and inclusive working life with a high level of organisation. It also states that the government will facilitate an organized working life and a well-functioning tripartite cooperation. What it says is quite right – great to say. The high level of organisation provides higher productivity, and several of the bet areas mentioned in the throne are best solved with a strong trade movement and good tripartite cooperation. In practice, however, it has been very difficult or impossible to see what the government is actually doing to facilitate an organised working life and a well-functioning tripartite cooperation. I can't see that there are any proposals at all that can help to achieve such a goal. What we have as an incentive to organise is the tax deduction for the trade union quota introduced by the red-green government in 2006. This deduction was continuously increased until they left in 2013, but then it was a stop-stop. This has been an effective measure that, according to the Institute for Social Research, has increased both the level of organisation and Norwegian productivity. The Jeløya Declaration states that today's government will lead further the deduction at the 2017 level, i.e. to keep the deduction of NOK 3850. Why don't you write it the way it is – carry on the trade union deduction at the red-green level, as it was in 2013? Because that's what the truth is. For five years now, the deduction has stood still, without being regulated. In fact, there's a 500-kr reduction, which means lower productivity in Norwegian society. Of course, everyone is in such a reduction, but it is the symbolism – the only measure that could have contributed to fulfilling the government's boast of further developing equal and inclusive working life with a high level of organisation is actually being built up. To me this says that we have with a government to do as though beautiful words about the importance of high level of organisation and cooperation, more than anything else fears a strong tradesmanship and the resistance she will give to the government its policy – unlike the Labour Party, which wants a higher level of organisation and a strong tradesmanship as a tool to create just a tidy working life, a level of skills, less differences, less poverty, more inclusion and increase productivity. For this reason, the Labour Party wants to double the trade union deduction to NOK 7 700, so that it is still attractive to be organized.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4199	I have noticed today in an article from the Advance Party where a point was made that the Senter Party will remove the free 350 kroner limit on online commerce. Yes, we are part of a majority that supports the Christian People's Party's proposal for an investigation around this, to see how it can be resolved. It was then said that in that case this would be bad district policy, understood that we are the farmers in District Norway who are trading on eBay. Well, NHO, Works, Trade and Office, NNN and LO are also among those who support the proposal, and they stress that removing this limit will mean billions of revenue to the state and 1,700 new Norwegian annual works. And as they say, there's no reason why the Norwegian state should sponsor foreign online giants. At the same time, there will be significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. At least that's good enough for me. What would be good district policy would have been to expand high-speed broadband to all residents of the country as quickly as possible. In a recent press release from the Ministry based on Nkom’s coverage report, there is evidence of an increase in fibre development in Norway. Among other things, 98 pst. by the inhabitants of Oslo offering broadband of 100 Mbit/s, and that is of course very good. At the same time, we see in the same report that in the so - called districts it is only 49 pst. which has the same offer. It's too bad, and the expansion is too slow. In answer to these questions, the new rule of conduct is often referred to as making it easier and more reasonable to put down fibre. There are a good many places, but not enough to ensure equal network access for everyone, and especially not where the coverage is the worst. The challenge is that many of our natural resources and existing and not least potential new industries based on these resources are located in districts where there are more square kilometres than there are humans. Fisheries and aquaculture, agriculture and mineral extraction are industries that are often out of all colors, and at the same time, travel life is also growing strongly in many of these areas. However, with the large geographical differences in broadband coverage, these areas are losing weight in the fight for industrial development, competence and relocation. The concept of ‘digital class separation’ is most real, and we believe that the differences need to be balanced. The centre wants the public universal service of broadband in those places where it is not commercially interesting to expand. Government funding will then be needed in many places, but it will pay off for the nation of Norway in the long term. So we've been thinking, still, about spending half a billion a year in our budgets until the expansion is secured. Last year it would be 430 million. kr more than the government proposed in its budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4210	I'm not going to paint black, but I'm going to share an experience from reality. The close police reform is in an early phase, but negative consequences of the reform from the professional environment as well as from political bodies are reported – yes, last night in the form of a letter from the municipality of Haugesund by the rapporteur from the Labour Party and the rapporteur from the Left to the Justice and Defence Department, as well as a copy to the Rogalandsbenken. Haugesund is a city that has had impaired police resources due to the centralisation of police operations and the management of Stavanger, which has its headquarters. The main concern in Haugesund is related to juvenile delinquency, which in 2018 has an increase. At the beginning of the reform, it could be explained that much of the police force went to reorganization. Now that phase should be over. Nevertheless, trends continue. As a former elected local authority in the municipality of Haugesund, I know that it works well in cooperation between political management and police, SLT coordinator and others who work closely in youth. Haugesund is a city that for many decades has had a lot of access to drugs and has to be looked at in particular in relation to prevention. The municipality of Haugesund has a strong concern after the close police reform may seem to have weakened prevention work among young people. This should be checked by the Minister of Justice if it is possible to have the same impact in other parts of the country. There will be an extra burden on an already strenuous municipal budget when municipalities are now embarking on preventive tasks in youth work for which the police used to have resources and forces. I want to finish my post with a heart attack – not black paint, but the government's regional reform and a Westland without Rogaland. If there was one place in the country that was required, it was among comrades in Haugesund. It is a paradox that there were representatives of the Progress Party at the Rogaland county council who stopped us from becoming part of the new Westland. Regional reform has succeeded in one thing: getting a lot of unfriends. It is sad to witness Finnmark's impotence, but that our two neighbouring states of Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane form a Westland without having with Rogaland, can at best be called a parody.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4225	The throne we got presented by the government said something about the important tasks we have to do, but it was chemically purified for good policies that can help them solve. To leave things as they are, to preserve, is perhaps natural for a right government, but North Norway needs a government that will more. What would the Workers' Party have done differently? Nord-Norway and Nordland have had a good economic development in recent years. Our rich resources have created activity, whether it has been in construction, fisheries, mineral, oil and gas or power-intensive industries. Unfortunately, however, much of the activity — and especially in construction — has been solved by hiring out labour. The large contractors report a rent share of up to 50 p.m., and those who do the job are not Norwegian. So far they have had contracts that say they are employed, but that do not give them any predictable salary. They have not had a pay slip, it is possible to borrow a house, and the construction sites have been characterized by many languages. It is then difficult to recruit young people for the timber trade. There have been more and more people flying in and out of our neighborhood to work, but living their lives elsewhere. That doesn't make any more people, and we need that in the north. We need our part of the country to be able to get more people. The population has remained silent for 50 years, while Norway has increased its population to over 5.2 million. For this reason, the Labour Party fights for full, permanent jobs in order to limit the use of contracted labour and for more apprenticeship places. We propose more funding annually that our counties can use to facilitate economic and social development. The right-wing government has cut one billion in development funds. Only in Northernland does that mean that we've lost more than half of the muscles we had to drive business development. We see several examples of a government that spreads bones on counties and municipalities that work hard for growth and development in the north. One example was the good work that three municipalities did in common for the new Narvik municipality. It was stopped abruptly by a turbulent border pull. Tysfjord municipality was divided, against the recommendation of the County, which knew the history of the area. The limit is against people's belongings and perceptions of justice. In Narvik, the municipality and the business community are trying to create a pleasant city centre, and it's investing. However, it is of little use when a heavily driven E6 in the middle of the city gives a doubtful pallet position: Norway’s most polluted air. The Municipality of Bodø has been informed by the Ministry of Culture that the application to become a European Capital of Culture is too poor and that before the Ministry has seen it. Norway needs a government that sees the importance of investing in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4242	I was tempted to tell you a little about the Workers' Party's transport policy after hearing the contributions from the pulpit earlier this evening. The Great Valley must have the grace of frenzy when he complains that the Workers' Party proposes to grant 70 pst. by the collective efforts of the major cities. He represents a party, the Advance Party, which is not willing to grant more than 50 pst., the rest must be paid with tolls. With our proposal, the drivers will only pay 30 pst. of the costs. This representative is pleased that the representative Stordalen is voting in favour of our proposal together with the rest of the representatives of the Progress Party in the Chamber. In fact, as Stordalen claims — and the Minister for Transport, for that matter — the population in our dear country does not feel that toll use has fallen. On the contrary, no more tolls have ever been collected than on the watch of the Progress Party, nor have so many toll projects been opened. The experience of this people takes the Workers' Party seriously. Therefore, at the opening of today's meeting, we have proposed some measures in a proposal for a representative. In addition to a proposal that the State should cover 70 pst. of the costs of the ‘busway’ on the North Juice, we suggest that another device be investigated at the rush time charge, which is somewhat less burdensome for the population. We propose that the government take the initiative to test new technology and road pricing – the proposal proposes Nord-Jären. We want the government to investigate alternative financing arrangements for possible increases in the cost of highways and bicycle trunks in the urban packages, even if they are not fully financed by tolls. That's how we in the Workers' Party take people's concerns seriously and listen to what they have to say. The Labour Party sees that toll use on the Guard of the Advance Party has reached, and possibly exceeded, a tolerance limit. We want the government to take a closer look at this instead of doing what the government does: asking the municipalities to find other sources of funding for their share of the projects in the urban environment packages if they do not want to have so high toll tariffs. So you say that to municipalities that turn on the heads and have no other way of financing. I am pleased to discuss and vote on our proposals and to welcome positive treatment, including from the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4257	New world record was set in September. It was not any record, but a climate and environmental record. 45 pst. of all passenger cars sold in Norway last month were electric cars. But records are there to fight, and we can expect many records in the future, yes, until 2025 – then the record is impossible, because then all new passenger cars must be a zero-emission vehicle. Norway will certainly be the first country in the world. Norway will be the world champion. The left is proud to be a great contributor. Now the Danish government has also decided to follow Norway’s ambitions. From 2030 all new sales of passenger cars shall be without a petrol and diesel engine. The United Kingdom and France adopted in 2040. A little after Norway, but the world is moving forward and getting greener. In other transport areas, there is a tearing technological development and a strong willingness to contribute to the green shift. Norwegian and foreign companies like to contribute as long as we politicians use tools and set years to implement our goals. We must create a market. Yesterday we received an exchange message that Norwegian Nel Hydrogen will be involved in developing hydrogen trains together with a French company. In the Lower Saxony district, hydrogen trains are now operating normally with a range of 1000 km. The Nordlandsbanen, Rørosbanen and Raumabanen are routes that clearly await this solution. Siemens has built a large battery factory in Trondheim to deliver to the maritime sector. Almost all new ferries are now built with batteries and electric motors. Over a period of 10 years, emissions should not damage the climate or pollute the vicinity of the ferry operation. The left will praise the state politicians who have clearly been visionary in their area of responsibility. Biogas to be used in buses and lorries is now being produced in the Woods of Trøndelag. Biopower plant in Forest is the world’s largest liquefied biogas fuel production plant. Another world champion. That's how I can keep going. The left has had great ambitions to implement the green shift. Not all parties and politicians have been equally enthusiastic, but now we're in full swing, and I'm looking forward to the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4274	There's a lot in the number of thrones. There's a lot of great words and phrases. It points to a number of areas that have challenges, and so far – well. Then it collides quite brutally. Government policy does not help solve the main challenges. Investigations show that differences in Norway are increasing. The government says it's important to combat inequality, but with the practical policy of government, inequalities are increasing. Then to the East Police District and the police reform. In the languages of the throne, the government says that the near-police reform ‘improves the ability to prevent crime and to protect victims’. The truth is that now there are examples of police reform not ensuring the victims. East police district, where my own county of Eastfold belongs, has over 7,300 pending charges. I have asked the Council of State what he and the government intend to do concretely to improve the situation in East police districts. The answer was not uplifting. In a letter dated 26 September this year, the Council of State answers that he is concerned about, and that development is worrying – not one word about what concrete action needs to be taken. All the blame is placed on the police district and on the police chief. Then we have to be able to ask, where is the reality of the government and the council? Don't they see that with over 7,300 cases waiting for charges, this goes beyond the victims of crime? Why do they say the true opposite of what is reality, and why is the rhetoric used 'black paint' about this when we address what is a real problem for real people? It's a dangerous way to go, when you just paint your own policies and your own excellence and are so arrogant in your behavior that you no longer care about what's really going on, no longer care about what people really experience, no longer care about real problems in society. The same is true of regional reform. The government parties along with the Christian People's Party are on. They force through a new regional map in which there is no logic. The fold is not a logically thoughtful aggregation. None of the states want it. No one in the government parties defends it either, maybe with the exception of the Left. At the top of it all, we experience a Progress Party in the Gulf that goes in front of us to stop what they even refer to as madness. Stop the merger of Viken – this is the Progress Party in the Week we hear. Then we hear something else from the Progress Party in this room. Now there is a proposal from the Labour Party on the table here today, on regional reform. I appeal to the common sense in the Chamber when voting comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4285	Norway has never been a country that sticks its head in the sand and is enough of itself. We look to the world to find common solutions to the global challenges we see, to lift more out of poverty and to do more for climate and cleaner seas. The success of the rest of the world is good for Norway – more justice and less poverty provide more peace and more prosperity for all. Therefore, in 2019, the government proposes to spend 37.8 billion. kr on assistance, over 7 pst. more than this year. It's record high, and we're keeping track of the goal of 1 pst. of GNI. So it doesn't matter where the money goes, and that's why we're implementing reforms, so that the aid money gets there and gets better effect. We make assistance more systematic and thematic and give priority to health and a doubling of education support, with particular emphasis on girls’ right to education. The government has contributed to mobilising a rapid international response in many humanitarian crises. We took, for example: Initiatives for the Syria and neighbouring countries Conference of donors, where we collected more than 100 billion. kr, and Norway alone committed more than 10 billion. kr. As we do this, and as Norway's emissions go down, as a nation, we must take our share of the responsibility for global climate and cleaner world seas. We have put forward Norway's first plastic strategy, got the UN involved in the goal of halting the supply of plastics to the world's oceans and taken the initiative of setting up an international fund for marine pollution. In 2019, we're taking $400 million. kr to the cleaner world ocean, and for the next four years it will be a total of six billion. kr. Norway shall take part in the international responsibility. We have a prime minister who makes Norway stand out internationally. Erna Solberg is the leader of the UN's propellant group to achieve the sustainability goals, and it's hardly by chance that she's been assigned to this year's world citizen. It's because she takes responsibility, it's because she leads a government that takes responsibility, and that's because Norway is going – and still has to go – in front of less poverty, better climate and cleaner seas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4297	Even after three years as rapporteur and long-standing local politicians, it is with a certain awe that I enter this pulpit during the very persuasion debate. That's the way it should be, I think. It is up to us who, for a short or longer time, are allowed to represent in the National Assembly, a great responsibility. I am meeting for a few weeks as a representative of Torhild Bransdal, who we hope will be back soon after the search period. But even though entering this pulpit is something special, there are basically different parts of the same trust-based task that are done by elected representatives in both municipalities, county councils and big ones. For me, it's about the same commitment to a warmer society that drives me, whether I'm here or at home in Kvinesdal, in the Lister region. The Christian People's Party is champions of local democracy. It is even anchored as one of the three supports of our Christian-democratic ideology. The principle of subsidiarity, which requires decisions to be taken at the lowest appropriate level, is a good driving rule. More popular: It knows best where the shoe prints, the one that has it on it. Recently, the extreme weather "Knud" swept inwards, and we also noticed it in our part of the country. We live in an information society and are used to communication and communication. Mobile telephones have become a practical aid in everyday life, but also a critical and vital way of communication. Not only was the distress net down. It's very unfortunate, but we know that, after all, it's significantly better than it was, and the focus must be on further improvement. But in many places the mobile coverage was also down – for such a banal reason as the lack of battery capacity at the base station. In only 39 of the country's 422 municipalities, the mobile network operates for more than two to four hours in the event of a power failure, NRK reported. From Telenor we were told that they meet the requirements of the authorities regarding battery capacity. Then I think we have to make sure that the authorities make stricter demands. It was also argued by Telenor that it was not environmentally friendly to install a diesel unit. Then environmental considerations are used incorrectly, in my opinion. I would like to work actively to reduce the use of fossil fuels to prevent further climate change, but it is not a diesel power unit that ensures vital connectivity when the power goes out and mobile stations have gone out of battery, which poses the problem of CO 2 emissions. This is about everyday policy and about the security of people when, for example: flood, storm or hurricane rage. We just have to solve this. It should be affordable. Let's do a political effort on that. I'm going to contribute to the weeks I'm in here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4313	Norway is generally doing very well. At a time when large parts of the world around us are characterized by increased polarization, uncertainty for the future and pessimism, there is reason to be proud that the Norwegian reality is so marked by the opposite, namely by optimism and by belief in the future. It wasn't given after the oil price drop in 2014, but we're there today because we have a policy that works, and because we deliver on the promises we made to the voters in 2013 and 2017. Now we're experiencing solid economic growth. Both the free time, the health cows and the outside world go down. It builds more road and track than ever. Businesses invest more, research more, and more and more people all over the country are coming to work. At the same time, we know that Norway is facing major changes. Changes in demographics and decreases in revenue from oil and gas will increasingly challenge public finances. Our ability to control the volume of immigration and to succeed in integration will have a major impact on the sustainability of the welfare state. At the same time, faster digitisation also calls for innovation in the way we organise working life. The representative Gahr Støre pointed out earlier today that Norway has a strong immune system, but that we are not immune to what is happening around us. It's a description of reality I share. I think one of the most important immunities against instability and insecurity we can contribute here in this room is to conduct a policy where one understands the relationship between profitable jobs in the private sector and our ability to fund welfare services to people most. Therefore, it is worrying that this session has barely begun before there are proposals from the Workers' Party on the prohibition of profit and the recommuneration of private services with which people are satisfied. A sustainable welfare society also requires policies that take into account all social partners. That is why, under this majority, we have replaced bipartite cooperation between the Workers' Party and the LO with real tripartite cooperation between the government and all the social partners. In this way, we are able to ensure Norwegian competitiveness – while nine out of ten say that they thrive at work. In this way, we are able to ensure the balance between safe jobs and a competitive business. Norway is in a situation where modernisation, innovation and competitiveness should be at the top of the agenda. It is therefore worth stressing — at the very least of the day — that it has rarely been more appropriate to warn against a possible radical left triangle of Norwegian policy than it is at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-03.ana.ud459e4326	At that time, 22 o'clock has passed, and the Stortinget is taking a break in the negotiations. Tomorrow, the meeting will begin at 9 p.m. 10, and the first speaker is Prime Minister Erna Solberg. - The meeting's been cancelled.
