ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e117	Honourable co-representatives! Former depositor Martin Johannes Toralf Buvik died on February 17th, 95 years old. With Martin Buvik's death, the Right has lost a chieftain of format and North Norway is one of the country's most insidious politicians in the post-war period. Buvik represented Right on the Stortinget from Troms County for three periods, from 1965 to 1977. As a representative, he was the first member of the Church and Education Committee and the last two members of the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee. He was then County in Troms from 1977 to 1990. With his wide-ranging knowledge and moody style, he was in demand as a leader and a member of public authority. He led, among other things: two municipal zoning committees, the so-called Buvik committees. He was director of the Oil Directorate from 1977 to 1989, head of the Rein driftstyreldet from 1980 to 1987, was a member of the Defence Commission of 1990 and was also head of the public body to assess civil protection. For many years he was a member and later chairman of the Finnish-Norwegian Cultural Fund. Among other things, for his commitment to Finnish-Norwegian cooperation, he was appointed Commander of the Order of the Vita Ros of Finland in 1985. He also received King Olav V's 25th anniversary medal in 1982. Martin Buvik was born and grew up in former Trondenes, later the municipality of Skånland. He graduated from high school in 1939, but the war put an end to further education until he could take the graduation artium as a privateist in 1945. He showed early pedagogical abilities. As a 19-year-old, he was an established teacher in the primary school in Skånland, and he worked there and in Evenes as a teacher from 1942 to 1947. Later, there was a study stay in England. In the right he started his career as District Secretary of the Young Right Troms, 1948 to 1950, and was county secretary in Troms Right from 1950 to 1965. He was a member of the Municipality of Tromsøysund from 1956 to 1963 and of the City of Tromsø from 1964 to 1967. He gained important trust for the Right Central, among others. as Chairman of the Committee of the Higher Education Committee from 1966 to 1970 and as Chairman of the Committee of the National Commissions of the Court of Justice from 1972 to 1977. Trom's Right appointed him honorary in 1997. Martin Buvik was an inspiration for many and willingly contributed with good advice and experience. Mild in form and strong in content, always positive and with glimpses in the eye. Until recently, he set up political meetings, took the floor and shared knowledge, analysis and opinions. It tells a lot about his strong and long community exposure. We bring peace to Martin Buvik's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e146	An application for sick leave is submitted by the Advance Party Group to the representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos from 29 May onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Liv Gustavsen, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e166	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e184	The Nordic Council is one of the most comprehensive regional cooperation in the world. Cooperation is both political, economic and culturally anchored. A significant part of... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e189	The President must be calm when the representatives leave the Chamber so that we can hear the speaker. The president's sorry she broke up with Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e194	A significant part of the work of the Nordic Council is to govern Nordic cooperation. Cooperation is extensive. I think with humility you should also see that our part of the world – and that cooperation like, among other things. The Nordic Council is based on and results in some of the most peaceful corner in the world. The Nordic Council was established in 1952. It has a long tradition. Parliamentarians in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Iceland are involved in this work, but they are also representatives of the local parliament in autonomous areas such as the Faeroe Islands, Greenland and, in particular, Åland, which are also part of this cooperation. The international situation suggests that there is a need for closer cooperation. It is particularly important that the Nordic countries clearly support transnational cohesion and cooperation when Europe is facing a difficult break. It is worth noting that demand for Nordic solutions, for example. in equality and climate, is larger and wider than ever. The Nordic region has a unique international reputation and is also visible in major international arenas. Cooperation in the Nordic region is growing in depth, both in the public and private sectors. It is positive that the Nordic labour market is integrated, that it works better and better, and that it is easier to live in one country and work in another and move between the different countries. It is also worth seeing that the government will continue to be committed to developing Nordic purchasing power, but also to adaptability, and can thus refer to the ‘North in conversion’ as a main field of action under the 2017 Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. The focus on a strategic Nordic partnership in Europe and on foreign policy has also become more important, as a result of more unpredictable international developments. Nordic government cooperation shall also be practical. It's going to be useful. It's going to make a difference for people. It should be noted in everyday life that we have a work in the Nordic Council which, between friends and neighbours, is intended to make it easier for people, but that it should also make a difference. The solution of frontier barriers and the strengthening of mobility remains an important practical part of this cooperation, by also recognising that there is a common language and culture, and that it has been central to the Nordic region that there are common values, and thus also represents what can be perceived as and called glue in cooperation. The main focus of cooperation in 2017 has been on the already established processes in a number of areas of society, so that the work of the Nordic Council is wide and deep. There have been a number of key areas of the Norwegian Presidency for 2017. In particular, the Committee has noted in its examination of the matter that the Norwegian Council of Ministers, following its initiative, has launched an investigation, precisely to look at and analyse the needs and potential of a Norwegian scheme of financing risk investment in enterprises at an early stage. Furthermore, in our work we have noted the experience of Nordic cooperation that was presented at the Nordic Prime Minister's meeting that took place in Bergen last year. It is worth looking forward to the results of a Nordic programme for the reduction of plastic waste, material recovery, efficient waste systems, marine contamination of microplastics and, in addition, increased knowledge of biobased and degradable alternatives to plastics. This is a work that is very important. It is necessary and important to ensure that we cooperate in the Nordic Council on this and that it is followed up by governments. It is important that the Nordic Council of Ministers deals with transport and communication, including: to see if it is possible to develop a railway structure across the borders affected by this. It is also worth noting that the Norwegian emphasis on the Nordic region in Europe under its presidency reflects the government’s priority of European policy and also follows up the ambitions that Finland put on the agenda when they chaired the ‘more Nordic benefit in the EU’. And it is worth recognising that the Nordic Council of Ministers has received a new Arctic cooperation programme, called the Nordic Partnership for the Arctic, precisely for the period we are in now, from 2018 until 2021. The Nordic countries' different links with NATO and the EU also set certain limits on how far Nordic cooperation can go in some areas. At the same time, closer cooperation between NATO and the EU, Finland and Sweden, with NATO and Norway's close cooperation with the EU, is increasingly contributing to greater opportunities for Nordic cooperation than in the past. Just in a situation that we currently have internationally, it is of great importance and importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e217	I agree with what the rapporteur said about the big message of cooperation in the Nordic region, which the Stortinget now has to deal with. This communication gives us a good overview of the scope and scope of cooperation that in many areas must be considered to be very unique in the international context. There is close contact, dialogue and willingness to adapt across legislation and borders through 65 years that has laid the foundation for the Integrated Nordic Region, as we experience today. An important prerequisite for the emergence and interest in further developing Nordic cooperation is that it is perceived as being current, that it is widely welcomed, and that it addresses issues of which its citizens are concerned. We shall all be pleased to note that the emergence of Nordic cooperation in our peoples is increasing and very clear. We will be glad to discuss this matter in Stortinget today. What we call the ‘Nordic model’ is unique in the world – with a relatively high level of taxation, good state benefits in the event of sickness, free education and a good public pension. This is an important part of what is called the Nordic model, and I believe that this is a prerequisite for strong popular support for Nordic cooperation. The Nordic model is characterised by trust between the rulers and the governed and between employees and employers, by economic developments with a bearing on the interests of the community and by the inclusion of women and gender equality. This testifies to a common basis of values for the people of the Nordic region. The model and cooperation are also based on strong democracy and popular rule. It may be statesmen who protest at what I am now saying, but I would nevertheless like to say that the Nordic countries and the Nordic model are so strong and have such strong popular support, linked to the fact that the Nordic countries – more than other countries – are strongly popularly overthrown, that democracy is strong and governing. The strong rule of law follows, of course, in the extension of this, relatively small differences, a large public sector, but above all humanism – that in the Nordic countries we are able to view each other as equivalent citizens, and that we live in a humane and humane society. The cooperation in the Nordic Council, of which I am now a part, bears the mark of the desire to care and build on this fine foundation. The North is strong in the world because we have these values, and because there is a balance in society. On that basis, we have gained more than many other countries have done. Nordic society is strong and has a high authority in the international context. That is why it is important to be told that we respond with joy — sometimes also with wonder — when colleagues from other countries come to us to see and learn, as they say. They also sometimes ask – at least I have heard it quite many times – about how we have got to this. That's often a question. I believe that the answer to that question is what I have already said: that we have a strong rule of people, and that we view each other as equivalent people. The North and the unique cooperation are successful for humans, but not just for them. It's also a successful economic model. The balance of society, as described, creates good opportunities for stable profits and returns. I would say, with a little smile on my mouth, that there has actually been a successful capitalism in the Nordic countries because of these conditions. This is an important recognition that comes from other countries, and that is why you are also applying for it here. Those who are obviously interested in making money from their money are also coming to the North for this very reason: there are stable communities that can provide stable returns. This gives international attention and is referred to in the international economic environments with great attention and emphasis. But – and I've said this before, but I want to repeat it – despite everything that we really agree on in this room when we talk about Nordic cooperation, it's something that, more than other things, is the bearer's beam, and that it's very important to be told by all the crossroads that it doesn't have to be challenged. I've said the words – that we view each other as equivalent. By extension, I would say that the right to apply for asylum in the Nordic countries must be real. Of course, we're going to have safe borders; those who don't get to stay are going back, but we're not going to have to talk down about those who are going to be here. It has to do with the cultural and social content of the Nordic model. Nor must we – within the Nordic sphere – challenge the legal certainty of these people. These are crucial questions. This will determine whether the Nordic model carries for the future. The Nordic countries and Norway are also dependent on these people. It's said too rarely, and that's why I want to focus on it. We're actually dependent on these people. Many of these people are doing a job in the Nordic communities that it would have been almost impossible for us to do, if they had not been present in the Nordic communities. That is why it is also necessary to protect them on this basis, and it is necessary to welcome them. This is being challenged at regular intervals, including in the Nordic parliaments and in the Nordic Councils, and therefore I am not going past this discussion when we are now discussing this communication in Stortinget. This is a core question. Nordic cooperation and the task of the Nordic Council is therefore to protect these people and to reject all attempts to build moral walls around what we call the Nordic welfare state. So to something quite different: European policies will be characterised next year by a number of changes and shifts: We all know all of the things that relate to brexit. At the end of May elections shall be held in the European Parliament. A new EU Commission shall then also be appointed and approved. Negotiations on the EU’s next seven-year budget, for the period 2021–2027, are already under way. A number of policy choices are to be made and new cabals are to be added. In this context, it makes little sense to talk about a Nordic block in Europe. Nor are Norway and Iceland EU members. We should not overestimate the importance of the Nordic region, but we should not underestimate the importance that Nordic cooperation can potentially play in European cooperation. In particular, I would like to highlight the Nordic labour market model, with tripartite cooperation and other specific features. As Nordic politicians, we should work – as many people say – for the Nordic model to inspire both European institutions and national authorities. The work to highlight the Nordic model must also mean taking seriously and combating the threat to our Nordic working life model, for example. various forms of social dumping and undermining the conditions of workers. Here in Norway we should be able to welcome European workers, but only if it is based on Norwegian pay and working conditions. Finally, in these days it has been exactly 70 years since the negotiations on a separate Nordic defence union started between the governments of Stockholm, Copenhagen and Oslo. The talks started in May 1948, a few months after the coup in Prague and the Communist takeover of power in Czechoslovakia. But the story took, as you know, another way. One year later, in Washington on April 4, 1949, both Denmark, Iceland and Norway joined in establishing the Atlantic Pact. Today, when we are discussing the further development of Norwegian defence cooperation, it is not about turning back at 70 years and realising the plans for a Nordic defence union – of course it does not. Nevertheless, there is still a significant untapped potential for closer Nordic defence and security cooperation. This will be one of the important areas for further development of the Nordic model and Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e260	The two previous speakers, from the Right and the Workers' Party, have put a lot of emphasis on the joint cooperation we have had, and on our common culture and identity in the Nordic region. I strongly agree with everything that has been said, and for the Left, Nordic cooperation has been, and is going to be, important. And as the two previous speakers have pointed out, we also need to look at Nordic cooperation in greater European cooperation, as the representative of Kolberg pointed out. There are environments around us that are changing, but fortunately in the Nordic countries we have had relatively stable conditions and good democracies that are built up over a long time. Nordic cooperation was established in 1952. That's why I want to focus most on thinking forward towards 2050 and 2052, as we approach that Nordic cooperation hopefully has been around for a hundred years. We've done a lot right, but what are we going to do in the next few years to keep the continuity and the welfare development we have in our Nordic countries? I have, as I am also a member of the Nordic Council now, experienced some of the cooperation institutions that we have, and Nordic cooperation between countries and institutions needs to take some time. Some people feel that there is a little bit of idleness. I don't experience it. I understand that this must take time, and therefore we also need patience. But it is equally fully possible to make changes in the work of the Nordic Council, and I could imagine a Nordic throne debate where the party leaders are also present. Now the prime ministers have also begun to prioritise the Nordic Council, and we have theme balls in the Nordic Council, but I could also imagine that we had had an annual Nordic treaty debate where the party leaders are also present – that we had taken this at a higher level. We could also imagine an annual Nordic theme – defence could have been a theme, and well-being and energy. There's a lot to choose from. It is also an EU that is changing when brexit comes into force and the United Kingdom is going out. But there are different opinions about it in the United Kingdom, and Scotland wants to work closely with the Nordic countries and may even want to get into the Nordic Council – without any discussion here in our countries, but in Scotland I have experienced that it is a topic. They're also about five million people, there's oil and gas there, there's fish, there's an education system that's very much in line with Norwegian, and a health care system that's taken a little distance from its original British heritage, and that looks towards the North. There is at least a lot to cooperate on. Baltic advice has come up and works. This is not necessarily the time to include it in a larger Nordic Council, but at least cooperation up here in the north is constantly developing and is important. And when the representative Kolberg takes up the Nordic position in the new Europe and the new EU, we can imagine a slightly narrower, tighter EU, where the Nordics can actually take an even clearer position, and where there is a north-south line in the EU where the Nordics have a significant influence. Then maybe Nordic cooperation is one of the most important tools and our channel into international cooperation, which we may talk a little too little about in Norway today: how important the integrated cooperation in the Nordic region is, when all the countries around us are members of the EU, except Iceland. I have to say a little about energy cooperation, as I am the head of the Energy and Environment Committee. We have had a very close cooperation in energy for 25 years; we have jointly developed the most well-functioning energy cooperation in Europe. It's taken time. Then we are betting a little differently today: Finland spends a lot on nuclear energy, Sweden a lot on bioenergy; Norway has the hydropower that the great renewable resource, Denmark has the wind. But together, we can research and do even more development work together, and it is important when we now see that new countries are spending a great deal of renewable energy on the sun and wind in particular. And when digitization is raging at the same time, it's important that the Nordics keep up with it in the hour. Each of us doesn't necessarily have the muscles and the capacity for it, but together, we're able to develop world-leading cooperation, and we should continue to do that. This is why it is very important that the Nordic Council has now taken up energy cooperation again and wants to continue to lead and cooperate more closely with it. It is also important for Norway that we follow this path. So to the demography, which is common across large parts of Europe: we are struggling with an ageing population, birth rates are falling, and it creates challenges for maintaining well-being when the proportion of taxpayers falls. It is therefore also important that we work together on the need for labour and the type of labour force, but also – as the representative Kolberg pointed out – on opening up to take people from other parts of the world where crises are taking place or are other reasons why people want to move. Then we have to work together to be a good host. It's also one of the possibilities to maintain our well-being. For Northern Norway it is particularly important, but it is also important for our closest neighbours Finland and Sweden, which have a very similar population development as Norway, and where there is a greater tendency for young people to move south. It's very important. I'm not going to go into health cooperation that much, but it's clear that we have a health sector that is very similar, and we need to work together more to meet the major health challenges we have. Working together to verify education and work across borders has been good, but new technologies, new forms of education and new diseases mean that we need to continue this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e279	I have to thank the Committee for its excellent work on an important communication and express my wish for a good cooperation with our representatives in the Nordic Council after taking over the responsibility of the Nordic Minister for Cooperation. Nordic cooperation is more topical than ever. The world is changing rapidly. The uncertainty and unforeseeability are high. Then the cooperation with our closest ones becomes extra important. Because in times of uncertainty, you need friends, and in the North, we're not just friends, we're family. My experience is that a strong and united Nordic region is well equipped to deal with today's and future challenges. We're adaptable. We have strong institutions. We also have a community of values with trust, openness and democracy and also small differences. We have a unique cooperation developed over 50 years, a cooperation that is constantly being strengthened both in depth and in breadth, as documented in the communication we are debating today. In 2017, Norway had the Presidency of the Nordic Government. The three main pillars of the Presidency, the Nordics in transition, the Nordic countries in Europe and the Nordic countries in the world, have been used as a thematic breakdown in the communication. I believe that this approach also shows the relationship between local, regional and global – that we have a responsibility and a tool to get progress in the right direction. The Nordics in transition are about how to secure the Nordics a central place in the global green shift. The need for migration is high in the face of increased globalisation, more stringent climate and environmental policies, new business models, digitisation, new technologies and new consumer trends. Let me just briefly refer to the cooperation that is now initiated in the field of digitisation. It shows how, in the Nordic Council and Nordic cooperation, we are also able to renew ourselves in the way we work and make ourselves relevant to both citizens and businesses. I myself was responsible for the Nordic-Baltic Conference, which ended with the adoption of Digital North, which has also had a major impact on the EU's work on their digital agenda. In this adhoc collaboration initiated by the Nordic Ministers for Digitalisation, particular attention is now given to eID, 5G and artificial intelligence. There is no doubt that if we succeed in getting the opportunity to log into public services in other Nordic countries with our own personal number or eID, it will be of great importance to students, workers and businesses. It will bring further Nordic cooperation and make it even more relevant. The Communication describes how we in the Nordic region should use our respective advantages to meet today's challenges in interactions between governments, knowledge institutions and businesses across borders. Together, we will develop an even more differentiated and competitive business, creating future jobs and ensuring an innovative and inclusive working life. A functioning and economically strong Europe is essential for the economy, well-being and security of the Nordic countries. Europe's challenges are the challenges of the Nordic countries. Through the Nordic initiative in Europe, we underline the importance of Nordic cohesion and cooperation in European policy. With professional knowledge, high trust and a strong reputation, the Nordic region can act as an inspiration and a region of progress in European policy-making. Not least when Europe is in a difficult period of breaking, it is important to have a clear Nordic support for European cooperation. The communication covers some of the areas where the Nordic region has good assumptions for taking a leading role, including: energy, labour market, climate and environment and food security. Nordic cooperation is also about building secure frameworks. Unpredictability in the world puts us to new tests. Through the Nordic initiative in the world, we focus on the strategic Nordic partnership in foreign policy. However, differences in relation to the EU and NATO set some limits. But different relationships also allow us to complement and support each other. And at a time when fundamental international principles are being challenged, it is even more important that the Nordics stand together and take an active role globally. The Nordic countries are not the same. We are five democracies who make sovereign choices. But the trust, the cohesion, the community of interests and the popular uprising give us a unique starting point for cooperation. We shall ensure and further develop that cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e302	The Nordic countries are small, but we stand together. If we do that, we're strong. It's also the overall vision of Nordic cooperation, a vision that's easy to end up with. With a population of 25 million, the Nordic region is the eleventh largest economy in the world. And not just that, we're among the densest integrated regions. In addition, there is a strong, strengthened, cooperation legitimacy. Over 90 pst. in the Nordic region, Nordic cooperation is considered important and two out of three believe that international development is in favour of closer cooperation. As the representative of Kolberg said earlier today, increasing upswing in the people is a great strength. To say a little more about global development: it's more unpredictable and less orderly than we've been used to. We should be prepared for an international revolution in which the United States no longer dominates, as they have done in the post-war period. It is also a realistic scenario that well-known and important international institutions are being weakened, which in turn can provide the Nordic region with the potential to deepen and further develop cooperation in several areas of society and with broad support to the population. An important area is precisely what Kolberg had in mind, foreign and security policy, by cooperating on common security challenges as a complement to NATO. Even now, we have a lot to do in learning from each other and working together on common solutions, not least with regard to the key drivers of social development. That is why I want to promise that, as a result of the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, a statement on digital cooperation was adopted in 2017. This could strengthen the digital transition and competitiveness of businesses in the Nordic region and promote an internal market. But it is particularly important for the government to follow up the Nordic-Baltic Ministerial Declarations and implement the Digital Cooperation Action Plan in concrete areas. Unfortunately, and I have mentioned this in the past, the Norwegian government has so far invested little in digitisation, both in education, in research and in national employment. A change of pace is needed to equip us for the digital transition in Norway and to help make use of Nordic cooperation. Finally, an important point in the report of the Council of Ministers' external expert group, which made recommendations on future training cooperation in the Nordic region, is that they point in particular to the need for commitment and anchoring of political leadership. I will therefore end by encouraging the responsible state councils to take note of this: in order for Nordic cooperation to be strengthened, it must become important for ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e313	In the Nordic region there is great support for Nordic cooperation. In a recent study carried out on behalf of the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council, an overwhelming majority – yes, in fact, over 90 pst. by the population — considers Nordic cooperation to be important. Several point out that international development is in favour of even closer cooperation, cf. What we see in Britain with brexit. We who have been elected to the Nordic Council experience a vitalization of Nordic cooperation. The interests of the Nordic region and Nordic solutions are great. The Nordic countries score high on international rankings that measure happiness, well-being, equality, democracy, legal certainty and innovation. Many are curious about our welfare solutions, how we work, and how we live. In the North we are small countries each for ourselves, but with a common cultural heritage and a quite equal way of life. The world outside of us often looks at us not as an individual country, but as a single region. There is a great potential and many opportunities to become more concerned with ourselves as a Nordic region. We should be better at exploiting this potential. I do not mean that we should erase the Nordic borders, but that we should remove unnecessary barriers that have arisen between us and strengthen mobility across countries. This work is high on the agenda of the Nordic Council. When the Nordic countries see each other's advantage, exploit it and use the potential that is there, and cooperate well across borders, the individual countries become more visible individually, despite the fact that we are perceived by many as one large country or region. It increases access to markets and may have more impact on individual countries. In 2017, Norway held the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, and then the theme «Nordic conversion» was one of the main areas of activity. Economic growth and innovation are crucial for Nordic well-being, and cooperation in the Nordic region shall support this, on individual countries' climate objectives, the green shift and the UN's sustainability objectives. The government wants Nordic government cooperation to be practical, useful and to make a difference for people. For this reason, cooperation has been anchored in the political platform of the Jeleia Declaration. Removing border barriers and increasing cross-border mobility are an important part of this cooperation. Another practical and important part of the cooperation is that of the Council of State – digital cooperation. In 2017, the Nordic Ministers responsible for digitisation adopted a Nordic-Baltic declaration on digital cooperation. It shall enhance the digital transformation of the region and the competitiveness of industry. A separate Ministerial Council for Digitalisation has also been set up in the Nordic region, and Norway has gained an important leadership role in digital cooperation, with the introduction of a common eID in the Nordic region, which we have been very concerned about in the Nordic Council. This will be of great importance to people's everyday lives, to those who live in one country and work or study in another Nordic country. ‘Nordic cooperation for better health 2017–2019’ is also a priority area of activity. One of the objectives is to facilitate Nordic health research in health areas where the relevant patient groups in each country are too small. If we look at the Nordic region as a whole, the patient base is much larger, with 25 million, and we have good health records that we can use better. The Nordic Council of Ministers has contributed funds to three sub-projects on ICT solutions, the exchange of health data and clinical studies on medical testing. Social security, prevention and innovation and research organisation are the main areas of Nordic social and health cooperation. As head of the Welfare Committee in the Nordic region for the last two and a half years, I have followed closely on this work, and it is very exciting and very important. The Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers follow in particular: address recommendations in the Bo Könberg report, which recommended closer Nordic cooperation, especially in the field of medicinal products. In the autumn of 2017, a working group was set up to look at the exchange of information and experience on medicinal product prices and reimbursements. Here's a lot to pick up in a good Nordic collaboration. Antibiotic resistance is one of the major health challenges facing the world today. If we don't get over-consumption of antibiotics, in a few years' time, we'll be able to experience that people are dying of something as common as pneumonia. Norway and the Nordic countries are today international drivers in the fight against antimicrobial resistance. The challenges and measures in this area must be seen in a global context and in a perspective where public health, animal health and the environment are seen in the context of ‘one health’. A Nordic One Health AMR strategy group and an expert group have been established to strengthen Nordic cooperation and develop common Nordic positions in the dialogue with the EU. Here we already see the fruits of Nordic cooperation. Last June, when the European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety presented the new EU Action Plan on Antibiotic Resistance in the European Parliament, he opened with reference to Norway and the Nordic countries – an example of the importance of Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e336	The Nordic region is undoubtedly a strong region, both democratically and economically. The North also sits together on large and rich natural resources, and we've set ourselves up to have a very mobile population. We have numbers that show that about 70,000 northern residents regularly commute across a Nordic border. There are about 5,000 people moving between Nordic countries each month. If we are to maintain and develop that cooperation in the Nordic region, we are dependent on having good and modern communication opportunities. Then we're talking about road, we're talking about track, we're talking about sea, and we're talking about air. The Nordic Prime Ministers have declared that the Nordic region should be the most integrated region in the world, and in some areas it is. But we see that the transport area in the Nordic region still has its challenges. I see that under ‘Communication’ on page 11 of the Communication, it says that ‘The transport sector is not part of formalised Nordic government cooperation’. I want to say that's not how we can have it. This should now be done with something. I also record that the Committee has written in its comments that it is important for the Nordic Council of Ministers to work on transport and communication. It's very good that the committee writes it. I wish you'd gone even a little further, but it's a good entry point. The Nordic Council had a session on Akureyri a few weeks ago. They took this on board, and they made a unanimous decision in the field of transport. Actually, the 15 different decisions were taken in a pelt. I just want to mention a few of them that are very important. One is that alternative funding methods would be discussed unconditionally in order to put in place socio-economic investments that cross national borders. The Nordic Council also considered that a Nordic fund could be created to finance investigations, analyses, planning, etc. relating to transport infrastructure and extending across the Nordic borders. It was also a decision on the investigation of bottlenecks and how business and labour markets in the districts can be developed by considering parallel or alternative transport routes. So to the last point, which at least I see as one of the heaviest. It is for the Nordic Council to reach a unanimous request for the restoration of a Council of Transport Ministers. You had that in the past, it was removed. The Nordic Council has discussed this for several times and for a long time, but is now unanimous that the transport area is so important that it is requested to establish a Council of Ministers for Transport. I hope that the Council of State can respond positively to the fact that it wants to do so at least from the Norwegian side, because the Nordic countries – and hence Norway – will continue to be one of the world's leading cooperation regions, must therefore have the possibility of moving goods and people in place. This requires a good overview and coordination. There is the challenge to the Council of State, and it is therefore provided by a unanimous Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e347	Nordic cooperation is very important. We have many common values in the Nordic region as the organized cooperation further develops and strengthens. The organised cooperation between Nordic parliamentarians in the Nordic Council is one of the main reasons for the continued development of Nordic cooperation. The Nordic region has too much of its territory in a common understandable language, which is important to continue. Therefore, it is important that the Nordic languages are used during the collections and that an active interpreter is used where necessary. The Nordic countries have had open borders long before the adoption of the Schengen Agreement. The value of it has been very clear on the North Callot, where people have also traditionally moved freely, regardless of the border that was subsequently drawn. In parts of North Norway, several languages live side by side, and it is equally natural to use Norwegian, Sami, Kvinsk and Finnish. This example illustrates that the boundaries have not been closed to Nordic consonants. As a finnmarking, I feel native to the North Calotte, that this is a region that has dense linguistic, cultural and family ties. The hope is that it should always be like this. The Nordic Council has addressed important issues where we can achieve more through cooperation than each country alone. An example of this is the state of the world’s seas, linked to pollution — in particular plastic — and management of fish stocks. These areas are particularly important for Norway as a port. Norway has a large sea area of over 2 million. km2 that we manage. It provides Norway as a nation with access to natural resources, both renewable and non-renewable. Our fishing resources have led to settlement, employment, export income and economic prosperity along our long coast. The sea is rich, and we as a nation are lucky to have the approach to the sea that we have. Norway manages its fish stocks with the aim of being sustainable and yielding returns each year. Stocks must not be overfished, as in the worst case a stock may collapse. For 2018, our fishing quotas for white fish, i.e. cod, hay and seich, are 600 000 tonnes. Norwegian fisheries exported for over 100 billion. Norwegian Krone in 2017. This means food for the world’s population and income for the fishing industry and the nation of Norway. Norway is working to eliminate the so-called UUU fishing, the illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. By gaining control of UUU fisheries, managing fish stocks can be sustainable in the long term. Control of UUU fishing would not be possible without Norway investing in marine-related research. The Marine Research Institute in Bergen carries out extensive scientific work related to stock research, stock monitoring, fisheries biology and the general state of the sea. We have many coastal educational environments linked to maritime industries, as well as farming and fishing. Competence in this area in Norway is high and can be transferred to other countries. In order to reap the wealth of the sea from a generational perspective, it is important that world seas are not polluted. Our obligation is to keep our seas clean and not polluted. It is a work that requires both changes in the attitudes of those who are users of the sea and strong efforts by our authorities to regulate and control this area. This has to be done in several areas: we are all concerned about plastic in the sea. We got an eye opener when it stranded a whale that had its stomach full of plastic, not food. We have plastic eyes floating around the oceans, we have microplastics that are absorbed into fish and other living organisms, we have environmental toxins, waste oil emissions and ballast water discharges, to mention some of the challenges. So we have a lot to work with in the Nordic region. But there are also positive things happening, with both changes in attitudes in the population and technological progress. We social democrats are technology optimists, but we are also supporters of regulating to improve the situation. In terms of maritime transport, both of people and of goods, we are facing a technological revolution, and the maritime industry is moving ahead with great innovation. In Norway, we have many ferry routes. The first all-electric ferry section is running on the Anda-Lote route. The ferries have battery packs and infrastructure is developed for both charge current and shore power. The first electric jack is in full operation in the municipality of Karlsøy in Troms. Developments are at record speed, and it's exciting to follow. The battery and powerboat infrastructure is not yet in place and the size of the batteries must also be reduced if they are to be used by all types of boats. In this area, action and innovation are needed. We know we're going to get autonomous, self-driving ships in a short time. In Norway, Trondheimsfjorden is assigned to this test area. Driverless ships shall eliminate human failure and possibly human errors leading to the contamination of vulnerable sea areas. Another related theme is the increased tourist influx of cruise ships in Arctic areas, as well as ice-free north-east passage and major freight traffic. It means greater risk of pollution and greater risk of accidents. Norway has progressed to improve search and rescue in the northern regions. In the event of an accident, it is essential that sufficient capacity is available in this area. A boat accident with a cruise ship or a freight boat in the northern waters may have disastrous consequences for crew and passengers and discharges affecting fish stocks and seabirds. We are so lucky that we are reaping the resources of the sea, so we have obligations to manage these resources so that the sea is still clean. The Workers' Party is pleased that the Nordics are united on these challenges. Finally, as a finnmarking, I am very pleased with the Finnish initiative relating to the construction of the railway from Rovaniemi to Kirkenes. It will strengthen the North Callot, it will give us great opportunities for alternative travel and freight routes and will, as I said, contribute to further strengthening this region.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e391	Thank you, President, by the way, from one President to the other. We are so lucky that we can decorate ourselves with beautiful titles also in the Nordic Council. At the moment, I am President of the Nordic Council, the parliamentary section, and the representative of Kolberg is my excellent colleague and serves as Vice-President. These are great names we have. It's going on in rotation, so you shouldn't put too much into it. Nevertheless, it is an important principle that everyone participates, whether in these trust offices or in the delegation that carries out the practical work, whether we have the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, which we had last year, or, as is the case this year, that we have the presidency. At the end of the debate in a unanimous vote, one must have the ambition to be able to say something new. First of all, I would like to say that co-representatives should not be fooled by the fact that there is a unanimous stance, because there is a lot of policy discussed in the Nordic Council. But what is a limitation in the desire to move forward in the joint decisions of the Nordic Council is that we are based on a consensus principle – which is there. It is a governmental, negotiated framework that makes us not add a supranationality to these bodies that makes us make decisions that are not made by individual countries in their national parliaments. Then we also have to look at ourselves a little critically from the outside. I fully agree with what has been said by the rapporteur and my good colleague in the Bureau on Nordic cooperation, but when we set out visions of bringing cooperation forward without adding more transnationality, we will note that there are other arenas in Europe that are more important for the development of a common regulatory horizon than the Nordic Council. It is the EU and EEA regions, which develop rules, and where we give some formal sovereignty in our national Parliaments in order to restore that sovereignty in the form of powerful means of attacking and solving cross-border problems. The second is the Convention on Human Rights. There the Court, also through a dynamic interpretation, has introduced to the European area a legal form that we are to be pleased with, but I again note that, unfortunately, the Nordic Council has no place in the other judicial and judicial institutions in Europe. If we are going to move forward, I have come to the conclusion that we must also discuss whether the old Helsinki agreement on these points could have been strengthened so that the Nordic Council bodies could be given a little more transnationality. There is a slight supranationality in the fact that contributions from the five countries have a budgetary framework of about 10 %. 1 billion. kr. There is, of course, some supranationality in being able to grant to the Nordic institutions and projects. But at the same time, I would like to say that it is a great task for us who participate on the elected side and also have tasks to care for in our own national Parliaments, to make sure that both the way we work in the Nordic Council is effective – that we don't spend too much time, because then you can quickly find out that a year goes incredibly fast, and then you haven't come much further – and that at the same time we have to keep up the pressure and evaluate our projects. Do they give us the gains that we imagined when they came into the budget? Let them have some time, of course. It's important. But can they defend their place after five, after ten, after fifteen years? We also have to ask critical questions about that. At all events, while we celebrate the community and association with the other parliamentarians and celebrate the good cooperation between governments, we also have to look critically at how we spend time, how we use resources, and how we constantly ensure that there is a common Nordic benefit coming out of cooperation. I thought I would also make Stortinget aware of some important discussions that are going on beyond the reporting period that is on the table here, for the representatives. It is true that we have noticed that the Faroe Islands, Greenland and, in and of themselves, Åland, which are landscapes within their countries and are in force in their national delegations, are increasingly marking the need or desire to be recognised as direct participants in the interstate cooperation in the Nordic region. There is something I should not suggest any solution to here, but there is a problem that both the Storting and the Storting delegation will have to deal with in the time to come. The second thing we are working on – and the one who has helped us with it, is Inge Lorange Backer, who has produced a report ordered by the Council of Ministers – is the simple desire to see whether we can coordinate more of the legislative work of the Nordic legislative assemblies in a way that does not create new frontier barriers. Today, we have a Border Barrier Council that draws our attention to – let's say more reactive – the effect of different rule developments in the five countries, and then we try to file the edges and the knuckles in retrospect. But it's also a big task to work together on the development of the rules so that we don't deliberately go into a new inequality that can make the Nordic relationship more difficult. Then we have to admit that it is the EU that is more powerful than we are, the great integrator of rules, especially when they come up with regulations, because then the rules are introduced words for words in five Nordic countries at the same time. But it would also be fun if we could develop a greater degree of regulatory equality on our own initiative. The next point I want to make the Storting aware of is an increasing problem that in the end it is only the Scandinavian participants who use Scandinavian when we talk. It is not possible for the assembly to make the choice that it is either necessary to multiply the interpretation costs or to consider switching to English as a subsidiary working language. I'm just mentioning here that this could be a problem. Over the lifetime of Nordic cooperation, we have happily discovered that we have gained new neighbours who are independent countries. I think of the three Baltic countries, which were formerly Soviet republics, and which were tethered into a central power that did not allow play. We have happily seen the emergence of 25 years of independent democratic countries that have come incredibly far since the fall of the wall. I also believe that the Nordic Council of Ministers of the future will need to develop more systematic cooperation arrangements with the new democratic countries, so that the Nordic concept may be extended, to the benefit of all the Baltic States which have happily gone through democratic development and which are not affected by the setbacks that some other countries down in the former Soviet sphere of influence can unfortunately give of examples. I would also like to mention NORDEFCO, which is not an operational defence cooperation, but can cooperate on both planning, exercise structure and acquisitions. There may also be questions as to whether the participation of the Baltic countries should be raised at some point. The last thing in this context – not to let it go too far here – is whether we in the Nordic region can also integrate our energy solutions in a way that helps to create a greater degree of energy independence in our part of the world. That is a big question, and that is what makes it very rewarding to meet colleagues from other countries. We are organized partisan, so the conservative and moderate forces are united in their group, and the social-democratics are united in their group, and the centre is in one group, and others – so we also develop a cross-state political cooperation that is rewarding, not least when you connect contacts at the personal level. I would therefore also like to close this article by thanking my colleagues in the Norwegian delegation, who I have had the pleasure of leading in 2017 and now into 2018. I think they're doing an excellent job for Norway and for the Stortinget in the committees they're set up in the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e421	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e437	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e446	We are now considering a proposal where the proposers propose that the government should investigate and modify the arrangement for air charges. The aim of this review shall be to ensure that charges strengthen the provision of the Short-Range Network. One now sees that the system of charges leads to a distortion in the distribution of the tax burden. It is such that small aeroplanes with few seats have a significantly higher charge per passenger than large aeroplanes with many seats. In addition, there is a significant difference between short and long routes. There are greater charges on flights to return Stokmarknes-Bodø than, for example, return Oslo-London. Some of the charges are based on weight and other charges on the number of aircraft seats. The consequences are in any case that ticket prices become so high that it weakens the competitive relationship with other modes of transport. Flights on the short-haul network are considered to be public services in large parts of the country. The distances are large, and other travels become heavy and take a long time. It is therefore important that the charges do not result in accidental cuts in the number of flights. The minority in the Committee considers that there is a need to change the fees, so that smaller aeroplanes do not have a higher passenger charge than large aeroplanes — and, where appropriate, that environmental charges are differentiated according to travel distance. By doing so, one will then follow the polluter-pays principle. However, it is also the case that the inhabitants of Northern Norway often depend on travelling far to get short. What do I mean by that? This means that journeys between aerodromes must be made via Oslo. For example, a journey between Kirkenes and Trondheim has to be made via Oslo. A review of the charges must therefore also take account of this relationship. The majority of the Committee opposes this proposal, on the grounds that the government has already started work. However, this proposal goes beyond that, as the proposers will assess the total tax burden and not just the passenger fee. That's why it's strange that the majority won't go in for it. The short-haul network in Norway is created for a coming electric aircraft revolution. Electric aircraft will initially come as relatively small aeroplanes, with relatively short range. They'll fit perfectly on this web. That's why it's also important that we maintain the activity at the airports, this type of aerodromes, for the next ten years. When electric planes take over these flights, there will be a solution to the travel pattern in large parts of the country. They're getting cheaper to fly, and they won't pollute very much. Therefore, the Workers’ Party and the Centre propose that the Stortinget ask the Government to carry out this review of the fees and modify them in a way that meets these challenges. In this way, on behalf of the Workers' Party, I take up the proposal we have made together with the Centre Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e463	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e469	For many in District Norway, the short-haul network is the only alternative collective offer in line with trains in more central areas, but also for inland trips that are a little longer, aeroplanes are perceived as an important collective offer. Thus, with the support of the Christian People's Party, the Government has already asked the Government, through a request decision in the budgetary procedure, to present a case for a review of the air charges. That's what it says. ‘The government is asked to assess the conversion of the current passenger charge to give it an environmental profile, such as differentiation after the length of the flight.’ In addition, the Jeløya Declaration has put in place a point in which we will ‘assess how air charges can be restructured with a view to increasing the competitiveness of Norwegian aviation’. Thus, with the support of the Christian People's Party, the government parties have already recognised the need for a review of air charges. I – and Right – are very concerned that we are going to have a good flight offer across the country. The challenge for the provision of air transport services on the short-haul network is primarily low profitability and lack of competition on commercial flights, with the existing material and framework conditions. User funding for the operation of aerodromes and air navigation services is politically well anchored through a changing political majority over time, through the Avinor model. There are only some of the larger airports that have profits, among other things. through the insertion of passengers from the short-haul network. Tax-free sales are also an important source of revenue for the operation of all national airports. If one assumes that the short-range network is an important collective offer in line with e.g.: Trains, trams, buses, etc. are thus aerodromes financed by the charging system. Sometimes you talk about the small airports not being profitable and not going with profits, but I've never heard anyone talk about a train station, a train line or a bus stop being profitable. And as far as I know, there are no train stations that go with profits either. I think we have to think a little differently in the future about the short-haul network, and I think that the short-haul network needs to be compared to other public transport that is the responsibility of the large community. We also see that there is a tearing technological development in the aviation industry. The development of electric aircraft and the use of other energy sources will in a short time revolutionise the environmental and climate impact of aviation in the transport sector. It will also lower the costs to the aircraft operators. I also believe that this will increasingly put aviation in focus as perhaps the most environmentally friendly form of transport in the future, and that will increase the competitiveness of airlines. Facilitating this development with a forward-looking charging system and comprehensive aviation strategies will be an important task for the government in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e495	So in this case we agree with the opposition on most things, but open doors are being opened, and I look forward to the government submitting a case on the air fare.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e498	The government has given great tax relief to the richest in this country. It needs to be financed in a way, and the solution often becomes new charges. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen has increased the fees by 4 million. kr every day since she joined. We have received the sugar tax, which moves trade and jobs from Norway to Sweden, the death tax, as a last greeting and the air passenger fee, which per km is 80 times as high between Bodø and Stokmarknes as between Oslo and New York. It is absolutely reprehensible that people who need public transport on the short-haul network within a county have to pay many times as high charges as the bermudashort tourists. Business is also hit hard, and the airlines, trying to get commercial routes to pay off, have experienced a severe deterioration in the situation in recent years. The Transport and Communications Committee was in Northern Ireland last week. What was the first thing that was taken up from Lofoten? Well, it was the deterioration of the flight offer and the closure of commercial air routes. It is now absolutely necessary to amend the aviation charging system so that smaller aeroplanes are not subject to higher charges per passenger than large aeroplanes. The fees introduced for environmental reasons must also be differentiated so that the travel distance affects the level of the charge. That way, we can take into account the polluter-pays principle and keep the district aerodromes and departures where it is important for the future. The new electric planes that are in the test phase come, and several point out that the Norwegian short-haul network is good for further development of this technology. The charging system should be in advance of technological developments in which smaller, zero-emission aeroplanes benefit from the charging system. This could be a new era for the short-haul network, and I think it would delight Håkon Kyllingmark, the father of the short-haul network. Chicken fields became a well-known transport policy when he was Minister of Transport in the government Borten from 1965 to 1971. The purpose of the short-haul network was to improve communication in districts that are difficult to access with other means of transport, mainly in the West and in North Norway. The government parties and the Christian People's Party refer to the government platform and the budgetary process and say that they should have a review of the fare they have imposed and increased every year in the last three years. However, if a lower passenger charge on smaller aeroplanes over shorter distances is an important objective for them, why is there nothing in the recent draft revised budget? Why does the Ministry say that there is no investigation into changes in air charges? Norway is one of the few countries that has opted for a flat rate air passenger charge. Both Sweden, Germany and England have differences in charges; long flights have higher charges than shorter flights. In addition, it is worth mentioning that the government has increased the VAT on transport, from 8 pst. to 10 pst. in 2016, and from 10 pst. to 12 pst. in 2018. Our proposal is not just about the air passenger charge. We want a comprehensive review and amendment of the aviation fee to strengthen the offer on the short-haul network, and we find it strange that the government parties and the Christian People's Party will not support this. The consequences are higher fares, which make it difficult for people to live and create values in the districts. The representative of Finstad said that they have already recognised that they have treated the short-range network unfairly. I would say that they could have thought about it before 44 departures in Lofoten have to be laid down. But some good plan for change they don't refer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e515	SV has a great deal of sense of the proposal made by the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. We fully agree with the intentions. It was just supposed to be missing. It is very important that air charges should be designed in such a way that they do not adversely affect geographically, and at least not penalise shorter distances disproportionately – when the local population does not have many alternatives to arrive at the destination in a reasonable time. It is right to say that the flight offer in North Norway and Middle Norway is to be considered a collective offer of the nearest ordinary nature. SV agree that the system has a faulty device when comparing travel distance and charge. The most obvious problem with today's system is that short routes with small planes in sum have a higher charge than both short and longer routes with large planes. This is not good from a justice point of view, nor is it good for an SV heart to register. It is possible to turn a competitive advantage in one direction or another and to advantage if you have a intention of doing so, for example: for climate reasons. Therefore, SV agrees with the proposers when they write: ‘This could be a good climate action where other modes of transport were competitive during travel, but this is not the case in much of the country.’ We also agree with them that it is unreasonable that there are higher charges per passenger on the trip-return Stokmarknes-Bodø than on the return Oslo-London, when they point to the polluter-pays principle. Both of these things, of course, we agree, and it's important to point that out. But then what? The proposal does not take into account environmental considerations and greenhouse gas emissions considerations into account. In this way, this proposal only points to one field within the charging system in terms of what you want to change – a single field. It is a pity that the proposal does not take into account a slightly larger width, which also includes climate considerations. SV will have a charging system for air traffic which, in addition to the points for which the Centre Party and the Workers' Party argue well, provides incentives for the most environmentally friendly behaviour. As you know, it can be done very well with taxes. We've seen a lot of examples of that working out. It is a well-known fact that some of Europe’s most traffic routes are close to Norway and that air traffic represents a significant share of emissions from the transport sector. Then SV must again point out that reducing air traffic in general is an important contribution to achieving our climate goals – all of which are therefore more or less agreed here in the Chamber. Therefore, any change in air traffic charges must also focus on climate effects, so that change will ensure phase-in of more energy-efficient aeroplanes, low-emission aeroplanes and after each zero-emission aeroplane. SV is familiar with the development of electric aircraft. We were enough of the first to learn about these possibilities. And after we have recently concluded a committee trip north of the country, i.e. to Nordland, with the Avinor leader as a good traveler, no one in the committee could have at least avoided hearing about Avinor’s optimism about this – and it is. But for the longer distances, and not least for long distances abroad, it will take many years for zero-emission solutions to be in place – if it comes at all. We have to be so optimistic, but it can take a long time. I think that the committee agrees quite well on that too: it will take time. SV is therefore sceptical to ask the government to implement a change as proposed, without knowing which fees to change, and in what way, and without investigating the impact of these changes. SV believes that a reasonable procedure is to assess changes in flight charges, which take into account both the prices of the short-haul network and how the charging system can be improved in order to reduce environmentally hostile air traffic. Air traffic between Norway and the rest of the world is growing, we know that. We therefore believe that it is also natural in this context to look at the possibilities for environmental differentiation of the air passenger charge, including travel abroad, as in Sweden and the United Kingdom. In other words, the Central Party and the Labour Party proposals are good, but only halfway. SV is a district party and an environmental party. Therefore, SV has a separate proposal that reflects this, and for which I have argued, and I address the proposal SV is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e541	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e546	In air traffic, we need to deal with issues differently in order to achieve a level playing field. It is clearly anchored in air traffic in Norway, and the Left believes that this is a good reason why the State buys routes for approx. 750 million. NOK to facilitate this. The representative of Finstad mentioned this in particular about the collective offer, and he knows very well about it, who lives in Lofoten and uses the flight offer. Clearly, when you talk about airplanes in Lofoten, it is the same as when you talk about buses, trains, or taxis from Trondheim or Oslo. In several districts of Norway, aircraft is actually the only offer to be transported to another area. So it's very important that it is created. We in the Left believe it is good that Avinor is in charge of the charging system. They do it in a good way, and not least they are very responsive to challenges that may arise in terms of bias. So a little bit about the future of aviation in Norway. The left is clearly skeptical about how we fly as much as we do, because of the greenhouse gas emissions and the environmental challenges we have with aeroplanes. Now several have mentioned that we were on committee last week. We were lifted when Avinor has such a positive attitude to new measures – not least to electric aircraft. But perhaps the most important thing is that the aircraft manufacturers – Boeing, Airbus and the different companies around the world – have come up with their eyes for this. It actually starts to seem like they have. We read in journals, and we hear from experts that it's high on the agenda of these companies. It is, as in many other areas of transport, still the battery technology that is the challenge, but we know it is under development. We in the Left would like to be so offensive that we start setting dates or dates, in the 2020s – don't wait until 2030 and beyond – but maybe already in 2025 have a clear priority that we should replace many of the polluting planes that we have today with electric aircraft. We're looking forward to it. Then I hear the representative Mossleth meddling in the airline passenger fee. We know that the Left also wants environmental adaptation – several countries have done so. We know that in the Jeløya platform it is clear that it should be looked at. It is under investigation, and we expect, of course, the government to come to Stortinget with a proposal to adjust that charge. Then I think the left is really in pursuit of its ambitions to have a good offer for those passengers who have this as the only offer, and not least when it comes to making the air passenger charge environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e561	I agree with the representative Finstad when he says that the proposal we are dealing with today is to open the doors. In the budgetary procedure for the current year, the Christian People's Party was given a positive impact on what the proposers are calling for. So the work is in progress. As part of the budget agreement, Stortinget decided that it should be considered whether to charge current air passenger charges, so that it would receive an environmental profile, for example: differentiated according to the length of the flight journey. In other words, we want both the environmental and district factors to weigh more heavily in the setting of charges, so that the environmental and district profiles are strengthened. The centre party, the Labour Party and SV voted against the proposal for some reason, while the Green Party and the Green Party voted in favour – and that is what we say – is a comfort. The assessment that is now being made, and that the Central Party and the Workers' Party voted against as late as last autumn, must therefore respond to the same challenge that the Centre Party is now pointing to. This is to enter open doors in the correct sense of the word. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will now await the work done by the government. We have clear expectations that it will be delivered on the leaders that Stortinget has put in this case, and of course we are not asking for an assessment if we do not want a change at the same time. We believe that there is a need to look at adjustments. We see that the air passenger charge as it is designed today may have some unfortunate consequences, especially for the districts. Then we have to adjust for it. There is no doubt that aviation plays an important role in our country, and air traffic is a central part of public transport in Norway. Aviation shall provide an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport system with good access for all. In addition, the transport system shall meet the societal needs for transport and promote national and regional development. Norway is a long-distance country, and people in Norway depend on planes to get around quickly and efficiently in this country. The Christian People's Party therefore regards the flight routes as an important part of the collective offer, not least in District Norway. Therefore, charges should take more account of the length of the flight than they are currently scheduled. Many in District Norway have flights on the short-haul network as the only alternative collective offer. Also on longer domestic flights, the aircraft is perceived as an important offer within a collective. Therefore, we now need to have a professional assessment in place as a basis for a new decision in Stortinget, which ensures that air charges can take more account of the length of the flight and achieve that effect with a strengthened regional and environmental profile. I expect that we will come back to that, but then as part of a scheme based on the work that is now under way in the government, which has its basis in the budgetary agreement and the decision of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e578	I'm glad we're discussing aviation in a positive way, where we want to make a better offer, so that more people can travel with it. Often I get met with criticism from parts of the opposition because there are too many flying, that there are too many aircraft in the air and the environmental consequences of it. It shows a little bit of the self-contradictory argument in the criticism of the government. I believe we should facilitate a good aviation offer. It is important as part of the local collective service – which is, of course, in many places in North Norway, but also in Sogn and Fjordane – but it is also an important part of having international traffic. So just to speak negatively about having international flights, at least I won't support it, because it's an important part for Norwegian business and not least for Norwegian exports. We must both be able to look at how we invest better in our airports – there we have done a lot in recent years – and make sure that it is attractive for airlines to invest in new materials and use more environmentally friendly fuels. There, Avinor has progressed well by Norway being one of the first countries to use biofuels in aviation, and Norway is one of the most advanced countries in terms of the possibility of using battery and electricity as part of the flight offer. Being able to attend one of Avinor's conferences here in Oslo just a few months ago and see how actors, both airport operators and aircraft manufacturers, from all over the world come to Norway because we take leadership, I think is uplifting. That's why there's no doubt in my mind that in some decades many of the environmental challenges we're discussing are more or less solved, and we've done it with an air service that's better than today. For the electric planes that you're looking at now, you need shorter runways, and you'll get a better economy in shorter distances, and so we can think of an even better offer in the districts. In that process, it is important that we make sure that our airlines also make money, that we not only look at them as a tax item and at all the long-distance journeys they have, where they earn money, as something you should try to get rid of! Then you can't accumulate enough capital in the airlines to buy the new aircraft that everyone wants to use. That's why there's also some contradiction in the argument that's been made in this debate, that it's very good that people fly short distances, but that it's almost cruel if people fly long distances, we'd better get rid of that. In fact, both parts are connected and make aviation both attractive and profitable. I feel that the opposition here is opening doors to make adjustments in the charging system, both because the Stortinget has already decided that we should do that job in government – and we are in the process – and because the government itself considers it important. It's also in the Jeløya Declaration. We're going to look at changes in the aviation tax that make a better economy in short distances, stimulating the environment. And some of what we've looked at, and we're looking at, is, among other things, to be able to move more of the charges when one is in the air – from the point where one is going to land to the point where one is up and flying. Because there are some airlines that are flying over Norway today that we would rather be able to charge heavier, and that means that those who travel to Norwegian airports will relatively easily escape. As I said, we are doing that kind of work. I think that, and I think, is a much better approach than what the Central Party and the Workers' Party here propose. That's why I'm glad that the majority in the Chamber seems to be more supportive of what the government is doing than trying to track it down to make something worse. I just remind you that it's already 30 pst today. a discount on the take-off charge at the district aerodromes. So that's what's going to be good for the little planes. There are large subsidies to maintain the service in the districts, 700-800 million. kr per year. So let me conclude by repeating a little bit to the unreasonable criticism that the Central Party comes with, because there is some party in this Chamber that has wanted to increase the level of taxes and charges, among other things. The centre party. In all alternative budgets over the last four to five years, the tax and tax burden is overall higher than the government has ended up with in the budgetary comparisons in the Stortinget – between 6 billion. kr – 8 br. kr higher only in the last two budgets. There is no point in criticising others for allegedly too high charges, when one wants to increase them — and more than double them — in total. In addition, I have registered that the Senterpartiet also wants to keep the airline passenger fee and the like, which they still stand on the platform and criticise. It makes no sense in a substantive debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e600	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e605	There is not always the same consensus in this hall during the debate on transport as it is today in this case. But despite the fact that there is quite a consensus, it seems that this proposal is being put to the vote. The minister said that one turned open doors, but we now see that the major player on the short-distance network is laying down several routes in the autumn. On the basis of that and in order to give a signal to the industry, I would like to ask the Minister if he will agree to change the fees, so that small aircraft with few seats and many landings get a fairer share of the fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e612	As stated in the Jeløya Declaration, we are assessing how to change and restructure the aviation charges in order to increase the competitiveness of Norwegian aviation. It also includes Onyøe. Then I also think it should be borne in mind that there are actually more passengers flying from Norwegian airports now than it was when the Workers' Party crashed. It's a better route offer overall, overall, now that it was before. When you try to give the impression that everything is going in the wrong direction, and the Workers' Party and SV are sitting in the hall and laughing at it, it's a little embarrassing that the Workers' Party is trying to blacken up to those degrees when the world actually goes a little bit in the right direction. Yes, in some places there are fewer departures from some airports to some destinations. At the same time, a number of new routes have been established from the same aerodromes. So bring the total picture when you try to draw the world, not just point out that it's a light bulb that doesn't work, when the rest of the car has actually been "skinned up".
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e619	Now it wasn't this representative who blackpainted some things. What I brought out of messages was what we experienced last week, when we talked to the people in Lofoten. But we hear from the opposition that there have been some signals sent by the government about change, and then the simple and straightforward question is again: will the government make proposals according to the previous question, and will it happen soon, for example. in connection with the State budget? When will such an investigation possibly be completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e626	State budget treatment is the natural time to discuss taxes, so if you look at the harvest, it will be the first stop where you can discuss this and make changes. But as I have said, and as all the other bourgeois representatives have said from the pulpit, this is to open doors. I'm recording that the Labour Party and the Center Party in the media are trying to give the impression that this is where the bad things happen, and that the government doesn't want the rest. In fact, the work is already in progress. To stop all the way because the Senter party and the Workers' Party suddenly experience a problem and then they're going to grab hold of it, so the whole way would rather slow down the government in its work rather than speed it up. Where we like to disagree very much about where we're going, it's exciting to have decisions that might correct the course. But when we actually agree on what we want, and the government is already running, it's making suggestions in the Storting that are going to correct that course, to slow it down, as I said, didn't speed it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e635	Government parties say that they have proposed a review of the fare and that they will have a review of the charges after the Jeløya platform. If the proposal to review the seat charge is a follow-up to the Government Platform, the Centre Party considers that this is far too narrow. If a person wants an overall review, the fare is a natural part of it, but it doesn't just keep changing it. That's the system that needs to be changed. Therefore, I am surprised that the majority do not support the proposal of the Central Party, as it is part of the government platform. Is it correctly understood that the government will only assess changes in the fare and that it is the follow-up to the government platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e642	I can confirm that the representative Mossleth is wrong. If you look at just the order of when the decisions have been taken, I remind you that the 2018 budget was adopted before the government statement was written. So the budget agreement is not a follow-up to the government statement in any way. On the other hand, if one sees the two decisions in context, both what has been adopted on the air passenger charge and what is stated in the Government Declaration, then one will see that it is a rather broad approach, which I believe is actually wider and better than what is in the proposal of the Central Party and the Workers' Party. That's why I just repeat what I also answered the previous question: making suggestions that open doors open makes little sense. When the government is already solving a problem, it would be interesting if the Center Party had come up with additional moments that could give perspective on it. But just trying to repeat what the government is doing is not really going to take the matter further. Therefore, I believe that the majority of people do this by supporting the ongoing work of the government is the best approach in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e649	The councils mentioned in their article that we want to get rid of the long flight routes. We're not going to, we're just going to try to change the injustice. That is what we want. Now the government will not support us in a comprehensive review of the air charges. I have to say that in what is referred to by the majority, the short-range network is not mentioned. The injustice to which small aeroplanes with fewer seats are subjected is not mentioned. We must remember that the air fares to Avinor must also be adapted, they are over 30 pst. higher per sold seat for small aeroplanes versus large aeroplanes. Is the government comfortable getting people and businesses, especially in the districts, a lower flight offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e656	There were many claims before the question that are not correct, and it does not help to repeat them repeatedly and believe that it suddenly changes the fact. If one reads what is in the Jeløya Declaration, it says that one should look at the air charges – not just one, but in a majority. In this way, we have a broad approach, and thus the whole reasoning of the Central Party really becomes completely pointless from the debate and from the current procedure. We have a broad approach. We want to make it more attractive to operate aviation in Norway, we want to make a good offer throughout the country. We look at the fees to see how we can stimulate this. Avinor invests a lot of money at airports, often investments that meet criticism from opposition parties because they make it attractive to fly, while now suddenly one stands and tries to have the opposite. The kind of crack in the political argument from the opposition just explains why it happened so little in that area while you yourself had the chance to control, because it's obvious that you don't agree what you really want with aviation. I am pleased that a majority wants to develop Norwegian aviation, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e665	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e672	Norwegian domestic air transport is an extremely important part of the collective offer in Norway, not least in Northern Norway with the large distances there. But air transport is also very important in many other places in Norway for people to get around in our long-term country. It is important for people to live and live their lives throughout Norway. It's also important for business. I have heard a lot of fine words here from the government parties about air traffic. However, there is also reason to recall that the same majority have provided very unpredictable framework conditions for Norwegian air transport, which have provided for an ever-increasing level of charges. One has received increased VAT for several rounds, one has received increased CO2 tax, one has been introduced with an air passenger charge. In sum, the tax burden on domestic air transport has increased by 2 billion. kr under this government. Within three years, the charge for commercial flights on the short-haul network has increased by between 50 and 60 pst. This is the result of policies such as: State Councillor Solvik-Olsen is responsible for this. He points out that there have been tax and tax reductions in total, but it helps very little for those who fly with Onyøe, that some of Norway’s richest people have received tens of millions in tax relief. It helps very little for the business community in the districts when there are ever new tax increases that create difficulties for the flight offer, which create difficulties in maintaining the infrastructure that you have. Air routes are being shut down. It becomes a more expensive and less expensive offer in many places. And it's also going to be a very demanding situation for the aviation industry itself. The centre batch has proposed a change in the arrangement of the air passenger charge in the past. I now register that the government says this should be investigated further. Well, new charges can obviously be introduced overnight, but when it comes to trying to change the device on them, so that they become better and more viable, you push it out in time. There is also a need to modify the airport charges scheme. There is also a complete hole in the hat when there is a higher charge per passenger from Stokmarknes to Bodø than for example. from Oslo to London. In the past, the Central Party has made concrete proposals to change airport charges, and we now believe that it is urgent – it is urgent for Norwegian business, it is urgent for people to fly around Norway. We have to make changes now, and it is a shame that the majority are not in favour of our proposal in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e688	‘Høl i hue’ makes the President aware that is to be regarded as an unparliamentary use of words, and we are trying to avoid it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e693	In North Norway, aircraft are public communication, and the fare is directly district enemy. It hits the short routes before the long ones. Our committee last week showed this very clearly, and everyone in the committee realized that Repentance was deeply concerned, and that there have already been consequences from the fact that Onions had to report that they are reducing the number of departures. It hits the Lofoten hard and hard. Over 40 take-offs are removed. I find it sad that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, also voted against this proposal. There is a need for a review, so that all passengers in this country are taken into account, not just drivers and those who use the railway. Now it might be time to look at those who depend on planes. We look forward to the majority being realistically oriented and coming back to Stortinget with an improved arrangement, and I would say: a greatly improved arrangement. The Minister spoke about subsidies to small airports. We'd like to discuss it, but if we hadn't had small airfields in the whole country that feed the big ones and make sure they go with profits, air traffic would have been a lot less – and the profits would have been a lot less. We can't have a public communication in this country where you can only travel by plane between Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Sola, if you just travel on those who were profitable. Then maybe they weren't profitable anymore. I record that every time he gets a question or a comment he doesn't like, the minister has the habit of attacking the red-green and blaming the red-green. It's a little special, all the time he's actually been Minister of Transport for five years. It is time for the minister to start taking responsibility for what he and his own government are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e707	Governments talked about large subsidies on air routes. I'd like to ask the Council of State to look a little bit different at this. I see this as an investment to achieve and take out the great value creation that is taking place, among other things. in the north. The Council of State also uses the word 'indisputable' about our proposal. The government parties and the Christian People's Party say we open doors. No, we don't. We're trying to change the senseless injustice that's been introduced in recent years, preferably in a late night's hour, to get the budget going.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e713	I believe that we are the ones who make sense in this matter. I would have liked, as many today have talked about our intention with the proposal, that we could get together about it. The futility is not what we stand for. They are the ones who have introduced the fee and have been sitting and seeing that it has changed to the worse for the short-haul network and to the worse for the small aeroplanes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e716	I think, with respect to reporting, that the direction this debate has taken seems a little strange, with the violent criticism from the opposition that shows that you do not actually recognise the job that the government parties have done together with the Christian People's Party have already done in this matter. The Central Party then claims that changes to the air passenger fee have been proposed. Nevertheless, the budgets are balanced with the air passenger charge, and proposals are voted against in the budgetary procedure, which includes a review of the air passenger charge. So I like to repeat what I said instead: the opposition opens open doors. I should have liked, to this extent, that we did not have to vote down the proposal, but that, as far as it was possible to do in the past, we could put the proposal to the Minutes. But that's not the arrangement in Stortinget anymore. What I think is very positive, however, is that we in this Chamber today have discussed air passenger charges, we have discussed future aviation and what kind of framework conditions it should be for the charging system in aviation overall in the future. As the Council of State has pointed out, the government is working on the matter, and then there appears to be something special to get criticism of what you are actually doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e731	It is particularly important to hear such a debate on something you really agree with, and that is to have a review of the air charges. But when the government parties and the Christian People's Party are criticized because, according to the representative Siv Mossleth, it was too harsh what they wanted to do, I would remind you that when Siv Mossleth talks a lot about the air passenger charge, at least the government parties very much agree on one thing, that one should – and I quote from the Jeløya platform – ‘assess how to restructure the air charges with a view to increasing the competitiveness of Norwegian aviation’. And that's just because we're taking an overall review, because it's more complex than just talking about one type of fee. I notice that there are several people who care about aviation, the short-haul network, and it also has the government parties. But I would also like to remind you that in this room there have been debates earlier, for less than a year ago, where someone would wind up the duty-free sale at Norwegian airports. It's about a quarter of the revenue base for aviation, and I would strongly warn against making any changes there. For the Progress Party and the government parties, there is no doubt that aviation and the short-haul network are of particular importance – that is the public transport in the districts. Therefore, the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, will have an overall, proper review, just to increase competitiveness. It'll be important. In addition, you have to look ahead in time, and it's not long before you talk about electric planes. Then it's not a problem, but it's a solution to a problem. Then we're going to take an overall review, not just think of a Document 8 proposal here in this room to quickly deal with something that's already going on. So it's kind of strange that we're running and debating a matter where you're pretty much in agreement, that we want the best for aviation, but as soon as it gets closer to something, the opposition comes up with proposals, and then you criticize the government, which is going on. It's very special, and there I think maybe we should think a little bit about in the debate ahead. At least I think the opposition should think a little bit about, and especially the Center Party, which is running so hard on. Remember what tax-free sales means. It's about a lot, a lot more than the airline passenger fee. And yes, we've said that both in the budget setting and in the Jeleya platform. And the Council of State confirms that the work is in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e744	Aeroplanes are important in the north, airplanes are important in the districts – it's our railway, it's our ringbus, it's our collective offer. At that time, airport charges will have a major impact on the development and mobility of citizens, including in the districts. But I would like to refer to the statements made by Mr Gruvean. This document 8 proposal is to open doors. Already during the 2018 budgetary procedure, the majority of the population have asked the government to assess the conversion of the current air passenger tax, so that it is given an environmental profile, and for example: differentiation according to the length of the flight. It is to open doors to promote a proposal in a matter that the government is already running. It is a little special to be criticized for a matter that is already being investigated by the government apparatus, on behalf of the majority in the UK. But there has been a new word in this period that has not been used in the past: big business – that you are not entirely satisfied with the things the government comes with, and either try to take credit for them in the storeroom or change them. It is also reflected in the number of Document 8 proposals that appear in the Stortinget. I would rather recommend representatives to spend time on Document 8 proposals for non-starting issues, and rather try a constructive approach by perhaps helping to clarify matters other than those that the government is already working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e755	I perceive that there are quite a number of sore toes in this hall. It is clearly strictly forbidden to remind people of the situation in 2018 and compare it with 2013 – horror and horror if we should look back and point out that things have improved in the last five years. No, thank you and price, we should preferably not do that, I feel that the red-green say. Nevertheless, I think it's essential, because if we're going to discuss whether we have a growing or decreasing problem, it's good to look at the historical situation, what things are today, and where we go on. I am recording that there are more travelers in Norway today than it was before. There are more flights now than before. Then there are variations from airport to airport, but now last month we've seen a huge increase in air traffic at many of the district airports. Much of this is also likely to be related to the activity in the oil industry, where a reduction in oil investment and the like has led to a decrease in activity in some base areas. Now we see that the activity is on its way up, and the number of travelers is on their way up. So we've mentioned that we're spending a lot of money today subsidising the flight offer. It was suddenly interpreted negatively by the Center Party. If I had said that we wanted to get rid of those subsidies and shut down the routes, I would have understood the criticism, but now it just seems like an attempt to look everything in the negative light to create a negative mood. That's the last district Norway we need -- we don't need weapons sponsors that give the impression that everything is going bad outside Oslo. We need weapons sponsors to point out that there's investment going on here. There are improvements in broadband and mobile services, there are improvements in air services, there are improvements in infrastructure that make it attractive to invest outside the largest cities – not the opposite. But from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, unfortunately, there has been some sport trying to criticize things that they themselves do not intend to change, just to create a negative picture. The working party and the Senterpartiet have not themselves proposed to remove the air passenger charge, they have not proposed to reduce the level of charges at Norwegian airports. Nevertheless, they believe that the government has not done enough to cut those charges. It'll be a little pointless. In the same way, I see in the setting that the Workers' Party and the Center's party believe that we should do something about the fees on the card routes. At the same time, it says that one should not do anything to make the fees unlucky for those who are going to fly between the parts of the country. So it's not going to mean anything for the fees when a fly short, but either when a fly far in Norway. Then only the foreign flights are left to take the load. Then it's okay to look back at the debate we had on Røgge Airport, when Ryanair chose to fly out. It was about the fees. So what was the problem at Back, the Workers' Party and the Center Party are going to have a lot more of, and we can just imagine what that means for Torp. I would strongly warn against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e768	The representative Siv Mossleth has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e773	I'm sorry I have to take the floor again, but it's a hack in the record for the government parties and the Christian People's Party. We don't open doors. We see the urgency of changing the injustices imposed by the government and the support parties. We are not the ones who have made sure that airport charges were charged in full in 2016 and have been added every year. To the representative of the Progress Party: the Central Party has made a proposal to allow the Vinmonopolet to take over the tax-free scheme, not to bring down the tax-free scheme. We believe that Avinor’s income should not be reduced, either through fees, but should be changed, because we are one of the few countries that do not differ.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e780	The Government is now examining a differentiation of the air passenger charge. Then I would like to remind you that this proposal goes beyond the air passenger charge. Here is the total level of charges to be assessed and amended. What's the big challenge is that Onkøe shuts down 44 routes in August. It requires action. It requires us to go through this matter properly. But I hear now that the Council of State says this is turning open the doors. This means that what is now done in the Ministry will cover all charges in line with this proposal. Then I look forward to a quick response from the government in this area. Then I must also agree with the representative Mossleth. Very familiar, no one has proposed to cut down the duty-free sales at the airports. Until then, it is too important for the local short-haul network.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e790	I record, like several other speakers, that there is a majority to do something about today's unfair system, with a tax burden on short distances compared to long distances and on small aircraft compared to large aircraft. That's good. Something has to be done then, either by position or by opposition. We'll see when the proposals of the Council of State and the government come. So positive I'm definitely going to be about that part. Then to the second part – the environmental and climate part. I have almost not registered that those words have been used about the fees here today, perhaps with the exception of the representative from the Left. I have to say, "Ag, so different the state council and I have. He boasts, as far as I have been able to record, that the growth of domestic air traffic has been high, and that it is the government that is behind the growth of domestic air traffic. I don't know if he also mentioned the growth in foreign traffic – I don't think it was mentioned on the fly. But there has been a great growth in air traffic. So, as far as I know, there are no electric planes yet, which means that we have a significant problem with the big air traffic in terms of our climate responsibility. I find it strange that a government council in 2018 does not take this on board. These are serious problems that the whole world is talking about, as the United Nations is talking about. When we know that there is transport that accounts for about a third of the greenhouse gas emissions – and that the planes may be one of the most important contributors in the third, which we can do something about by arranging our charges like this or so, it's very strange. I hope, if there's any time left for some people here in the hall, that some of them will get a little bit into the environmental side of this. It's not just about having growth for the sake of growth when it comes to air traffic. You should have the environment a little bit as a background when there are such serious shadows hanging over us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e799	The representative Arne Nävra talks a lot about the lack of climate exposure and environmental exposure in this room. I can then make a little contribution, because it is clear that both the charging system and the transport systems we offer around the country are absolutely crucial if we are actually to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The left is a driver in that case. I think we both have the new technical solutions and not least the charging system can handle this, but that must be optimism. In fact, it has to be like this: Yes – we can solve this with new technology, and not least by introducing some differentiated charges, so that the environmentally friendly choices are first priority. What I really took the floor for was Øystein Langholm Hansen's concern that Onkøe now shut down routes. I hope that you are fully aware in the storeroom that no Unøe routes are being closed by those who are bought with subsidies from the state. These are purely commercial routes, and that's of course because of passenger failure. It may be that there are other airlines that choose to set up an offer on these routes – it is freely available. And maybe, onions, if they're still going to have an offer, customize their routes around the country, so that they actually get to handle this. My impression of Onderøe is that there is a very good quality of what they deliver, and at the same time they are also more and more focused on the commercial routes and not least on foreign traffic. To get back a little bit to Arne Nävra's concerns: the left is probably the most concerned, is that it's foreign traffic at our airports that is increasing the most, that it's where we should actually have a higher level of charges and alternatives, so that we could get that usage down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e808	I take the floor in this debate, because, as I mentioned in my previous speech, the Progress Party and the second government party, together with the Christian People's Party, are committed to a holistic approach to aviation challenges and to competition. What's a little special, which I don't get a complete answer to, is what's in the setting on page 2, where the members of the Workers' Party and the Centre stress that if you review, you will see that the fees 'don't hurt the inhabitants' who travel between the parts of the country. But when you look at proposal No. One, it says you have to ‘ensure that aeroplanes with a low seating capacity do not have a higher charge per seating position than larger aeroplanes, thus strengthening the supply of the short-haul network. The changes must not reduce Avinor’s accumulated revenues’. Pure mathematics says you have to charge the fees on longer trips. There are not many months since we discussed Rygge and were concerned with the fees. Yes, Rygge was a typical airport for flights out of the country – then the higher the charges might make it even more difficult. Or is it Torp Airport, my own airport, you have to reach – because from there are long flight journeys? Which airport do you want to park? If you don't want to change and reduce Avinor's total income, where are you going to take it from? That's the big question, and there's no answer to it. I heard the Central Party was particularly concerned about the fact that the Council of State accused the Centre party of wanting to reduce and increase the fees on long trips. But that's what you say -- that overall, you shouldn't reduce the income of Avinor. Ergo: Where do you take it from?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e820	I just want to support the question asked by the representative Stordalen: who is the person who actually has to pay more, when there are more people who have to pay less, or who are not to be affected by this? The proposers have not said anything about this. Then SV took up the climate, and then I just hope that from now on we can start listening more to each other's posts, because I mentioned the climate quite a lot in my post. Among other things, I mentioned: Norway is at the forefront of the use of biofuels. Gardermoen was the first airport in the world to offer this before Los Angeles. They were quite proud of it at the Gardermoen. I also mentioned electric aircraft in that connection, just to point to the fact that it is smart to have an aviation industry that has the capital to buy the new, modern and environmentally friendly planes that are coming, and not to believe that they can live on deficits and small routes, but that they must actually also be able to make money. Therefore, charging policy is again important here, not only to ensure good district provision, but also to ensure sustainable airports. From the Swedish government on and off it gives the impression that today's government does not care about the environment and climate, while it is said that it was done under the previous government, it is worth remembering that in almost all areas of transport, the allocation of collective travellers is more than doubled. I know that SV doesn't like to hear it, but it's still a fact that even before the Left got into the government, they achieved far more in this area than SV ever managed in government. This is because both the Right and the Advance Party believe these are important areas that we do not oppose. You can wonder who put on the brake in the previous government, because I believe the representative Nävra that he is concerned about this. But then there is obviously someone else who has not been concerned about the results coming. Then it is very nice to be able to look at Gunnes' representative and know that we are fighting the same thing and going in the same direction. The results have also come. Total emissions of CO 2 from aviation, according to environmental status.no, were 1,155 million in 2005. tonnes. After eight years of red-green government, emissions increased to 1,352 million. tonnes, that's an increase of 200 million. tonnes. After three years of the falsified Advance Party in government, emissions went down to 1,304 million. tonnes. Although I do not think the representative Nävra takes the environment seriously, I can nevertheless refer to a result that goes in the right direction, in contrast to the representative of Nävra's party with the brake cameras in the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e836	I won't extend this debate much, but I think it's amazing that the Council of State takes credit for the technological development of jet engines, but that's okay. What made me take the floor was the representative Gunnes’ claim that there was a failure in the number of passengers that was the reason for the dismissal of Mr. Ontøe. No, Onkøe himself says that commercial ticket routes are not profitable after the fee increase. This means that they cannot maintain an equally good offer because of the increase in fees that came with the triple blue government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e843	The representative Arne Nävra has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e848	A brief remark gets the character of a reply to the Council of State very quickly, I think. - The Greens and the Brake Comrades, yes! I'm not going to like this more brake fluid on the fire, but I'm of course recording disagreements in all constellations, and it's obviously in this government as well. That's how much we can keep up with. The question is more, when Solvik-Olsen highlights its environmental profile in the government, whether there is a development despite the Progress Party or because of the Progress Party. Who, if any, is a brake pad in the current government regarding the environment, I think I have my opinions about. I think that part starts with an f and ends with a p if we look at the abbreviation. And then we'll see how much they're giving up. But we should remember one thing in the name of honesty: Here is a development, it should just be missing! You can't compare with the situation eight or ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e855	State Council Solvik-Olsen and the Government Parties refer several times to the level of fees and what the Centre Party has done in this context. Now, soon, the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party themselves must take responsibility for the charging policy they stand for and the fees they have imposed. It was these four batches that introduced the air passenger fee. The centre party voted against. The centre batch has subsequently proposed to reduce flight charges again. The party of progress has voted against. We have also proposed to reduce the fuel tax again, even where the Progress Party has voted against. State Council Solvik-Olsen is committed to comparing what happened in 2013, with what is happening in 2018. Well, over the course of these five years, the level of fees in Norway has increased by a total of 6.6 billion. Net kr. About 2 billion. of which there are increased charges on domestic air transport. Increased CO2 tax, air passenger tax and increased VAT for several rounds is the majority that governs, who is responsible for, and the Senterpartie has wanted a different direction of development. We want lower charges than that adopted for the current year. Our alternative state budget for the current year has lower charges than that adopted by the majority. We also have lower taxes within our budget for anyone who has 750,000 or less in income. It is true that our alternative budget means that someone in Norwegian society who has a good backlog to carry it has to do something more. I think that is a sensible policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e862	I think this debate really reflects the opposition's debate approach in Norwegian policy for the time being. Although here we really agree on what the government is going to do, the Center Party manages – and tries to do it again and again – to give the impression that they mean something completely different. We got an example of that now. In the Central Party’s alternative state budgets, there are net tax increases of between 6 billion. kr and 8 br. kr every year. Nevertheless, a debate after debate gives the impression that the level of charges has now become too high. But the Center Party would do it even higher if they could be controlled. If it had been that one suggested that one would reduce something that others have increased, or vice versa, has a factual, interesting debate. Just criticizing that others have increased something, but even if you want to maintain it, doesn't make any sense. If one looks at the alternative budgets of the Senter Party, one sees that the Senter Party maintains the air passenger fee. One maintains all the fees that one has now stood in the hall and criticised. That doesn't make any sense. Then one has only one purpose, and that's to confuse the voters. It usually doesn't seem like giving a good social debate. I remember that the Senter Party has also criticized the government for the level of tolls, even though the Senter Party raised an even higher level of tolls when they themselves crashed, and even though the Central Party in the Stortinget voted against the subsidy scheme to reduce the tolls. The centre party has criticised the level of car charges, but in its alternative state budgets it has generally wanted to increase the overall tax burden on the drivers. The centre party criticises the level of border trade during Question Time, but in its alternative state budgets the increase in alcohol taxes, increased tobacco taxes, increased snuff taxes and increased food prices in Norway is proposed — which is just helping to increase border trade. When we are going to have a good and interesting debate on political issues, we should discuss what we disagree about, in order to test the arguments and to test the facts – and not as the Central Party and the Workers' Party are always doing here, trying to draw the most gloomy picture, even if they really agree with all the decisions that have been made and have not proposed any options. But when they finally come up with an alternative, it's turning in the doors of a government's work that's already in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e873	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e878	It is clearly heavy for the Council of State that some people point to the level of tolls in Norway. It is not the Central Party that has opted for the removal of tolls in Norway, it is the representatives of the Progress Party who have done so. Now they run the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance, and the level of tolls has never been as high as in the current year. For the fees: the centre lot voted against the air passenger fee when it was introduced. We have proposed in retrospect – and unfortunately not implemented – to reduce again. When we acknowledge that the majority, among others: The leap forward, not willing to reduce the fee again, we have to try to make a change to the device, so that at least we protect domestic air transport to a greater extent than we do today. Then you can rather have a slightly higher fee on long trips abroad. We have proposed a different tax and tax policy than the majority. We suggest something higher tax for those who have their backs to carry it. We propose to remove the completely unreasonable 350-kroner limit, which is pure subsidisation of foreign operators importing into Norway. We have a different option than the majority, and that's a good alternative. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e888	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e893	Here on the house we have some driving rules and some playing rules, where we respect each other for each other's views and respect each other when we disagree with political issues. We have some written rules and some unwritten rules. The written rules are primarily laid down in Stortingen's Rules of Procedure. This can be seen, inter alia, from the point of view of: that in debates like this, the rapporteur and the Council of State have an unlimited number of posts. The remaining representatives of the aggregates shall have two posts in each case, governed by the Rules of Procedure. In addition, it is possible to get the word for a brief comment. In the cases where the parties to the government have the rapporteur, as is the case in this case, the Council of State and another from the parties to the government have an unlimited number of posts. Then there is an unwritten rule in this Chamber that when the other speakers have no more speaking time, the Council of State also limits itself from the pulpit of the Stortinge. It is an unwritten rule that is respected by all governments, all governments – almost – through changing governments and changing times, simply because we have respect for each other, the way of debate and the form of debate in the Storting. But Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen does not respect that. Now there are no more posts for the Central Party figures, now there are no more posts for the Workers' Party figures, and the SV's representative has no more posts in the Chamber. But the Minister of Transport is clinging to and keeps some posts that have nothing to do with the matter. These are border trade, alcohol taxes and what they may be, in the usual Ketil Solvik-Olsen style. Zero respect for the Storting, zero respect for the rules that everyone else, including his government colleagues, adheres to and respects, so that we have a proper and serious way of dealing with the Storting. [[The President clubs.]] Should the Council of State...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e902	The President must remind Myrli that it is Øystein Langholm Hansen who is the spokesman for this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e907	Then I'm sorry. I then regret this very matter, but we need to get a form of debate from the Minister of Transport, too, which means that we have a climate of debate on the issues we are dealing with in the Stortinget, which builds up under a serious climate of debate. Now, the Minister of Transport should limit himself to commenting on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e912	The representative of Morten Stordalen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e917	I couldn't avoid commenting on the last article. I think the form of debate can also be welcomed back to the opposition and how it plays out, and I can only start with the first post from the Central Party today, where you went to attack the government parties. It has to be allowed to answer. It was also one of the opposition parties – the centre party – that stood on the pulpit a little while ago and began to talk about both the state budget, the limit of $350 and a little bit of each. This has not been done by the Progress Party. I asked a question, and it hasn't answered the Senterpartiet, and it was about the total bill when it's not going to go beyond Avinor's total income – you're going to reduce the fees on the short-distance network, but you're not going to change Avinor's income. I asked which trips to pay for, and which airport does it go beyond this time, is that Torp? That's what I asked. They did not answer that, but they talked about other charges, about the 350-kroner limits that have nothing to do with this, and about the state budget. I haven't.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e922	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e938	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e947	In this case we are going to land again – and first I will be allowed to thank the committee for the work that has led to both the vote and the proposals in the case. The proposal of the representative made by several SV and the Workers' Party’s representatives brings up new railway lines, Oslo – Stockholm and Oslo – Gothenburg, on the agenda. They each require their KVU to assess implementation on the Norwegian side. That is what is the essence of their proposal. The majority of the Committee considers that the KVU to be submitted to Kongsvingerbahn – it has been decided at an earlier date that a KVU should be submitted to it – should also assess the cross-border traffic, and thus a separate KVU for Oslo-Stockholm is not necessary. With regard to the Oslo-Gothenburg section, the government will take an initiative towards its Swedish and Danish colleagues who will conduct a Scandinavian railway study for the route to Copenhagen, i.e. Oslo-Gothenburg-København, so that it is maintained. That is why the majority of the Committee would like the proposal to be rejected. Then I have to say that it has been an exciting job to deal with this matter, because we had a very good hearing. I don't have that long seagoing time in Stortinget, but I call it very good, because of the hearings I've been at, it's one of the better ones. For it was very committed people, who represented stakeholder organisations, whether county councils or other companies, who were clearly very keen on both the future of the railway or, not least, the cross-border traffic solutions that you can see in the vicinity of Oslo – then Oslo – Stockholm and Oslo – Gothenburg. It was a very interesting hearing, and there were many who would like to be heard. So this work I don't think stops or doesn't get back on the agenda in the Storting in the near future. Because here it's actually a big commitment. I can only mention the private company that assesses a travel time between Oslo and Stockholm in two hours and fifty-five minutes. It is of course to compete with the plane that they have chosen to be quite clear that that is what is the maximum travel time, so that approx. 70 pst. by all aircraft passengers, they may choose to take the train instead. They say that there may be a basis for such a private solution, which may be commercially well driven. We will clearly see that work further, when the KVU of the Kongswingerban comes, and not least the other work going on between government and government in Scandinavia. Then I will also mention Nordic cooperation. The first case today was about the Nordic Council and Nordic cooperation, and this transport play was mentioned, which also points clearly to the fact that this will be a new issue that will affect this, and not least the establishment of a Transport Council. I have to say that I understood the proposal when it came, but through the consultation, the government's already taken action, discussions and not least the Nordic Council's decision, which also means that the Council of Ministers gets this transport part, I would say that we are doing well to assess these measures, and I hope that the Stortinget can agree that we reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e966	Like the rapporteur, let me refer to the debate earlier today on Nordic cooperation. All the speakers spoke well about how important Nordic cooperation was, and I noticed that there were several speakers who talked about how important it was with Nordic cooperation in transport and transport. I noticed that Right Injerd Schou, for example. the talk about cross-border railway infrastructure. This is good. But then we have to start – then we have to get started. And as positive as the case-rapporteur, Mr Gunnes – at least here from the pulpit – expressed that he was for stronger railway cooperation between Norway and Sweden, it is a mystery to me why he and the majority of the population voted down the proposals to draw up impact assessments on the railways between Oslo and Stockholm and Oslo and Gothenburg. We have to get started, we have to start this work, and I remind you that this is about preparing investigations in the first place. I must also say that I am a bit stunned after reading the statements from the Christian People's Party Grave in the newspaper today. He's a man who usually has a good overview, but I'm just a little unsure whether he's understood what the proposers and the minority in the transport committee are presenting for consideration here today. It has nothing to do with the current priorities of the national transport plan. It comes later, of course, projects must be prioritised, but it is far ahead of time for us to see some expansion between Oslo and Stockholm and Oslo and Gothenburg. So we have to start with investigations, and we have to get started. I am also a little uncertain about whether Gruvan has talked to his party traps in Akershus and Eastfold about this, because the local Christian People's Party representatives are among the most eager to start developing these KVUs. Let's admit that for many years it's been talking about strengthening the border tracks, Oslo – Stockholm and Oslo – Gothenburg. A little has been done, but the big bet has been missed. Let's be honest with that. When all of us have, through the changing majority and changing governments, held and carried out priorities in the national transport plan and are to choose between the rail services offered to travellers in Lillestrøm and in Kolbotn or in Skopum or at the Council – up to the border roads – yes, it is the domestic routes that have won out in the national transport plan. It is therefore interesting that, in fact, proposals have now also been put in place to finance cross-border rail development through ticket prices. If possible, I can't answer, and certainly no one else here in the hall either, but let's at least take a closer look at it and find out if that's possible. In the case of the Oslo- Stockholm rail link, three different options for an upgraded railway have been launched. It's an alternative to Kongswinger, one about the Bear's Serpent and one about Ashim. Which of these options is best, I can't answer, but it shouldn't be dangerous to investigate and look at it. The same is true of the railway between Oslo and Gothenburg. Two possible main options have been launched, one through Tistedalen and Dalsland and one through the areas around Strömstad and via Bohuslinkysten. Once again, what's best is hard for us here to answer, so we should figure this out and get more facts on the table. In March, the transport committee on committee missions was just in Stockholm and Gothenburg, and then it was heard from all parties that it was important to start closer cooperation and further explore an increased rail offer between Oslo and Stockholm and Oslo and Gothenburg. Was it just party speeches? After we went back to Oslo and Stortinget, one suddenly – at least the majority – is not so interested in starting investigations to do this. It's sad that today we don't get a majority in favour of conducting conceptual investigations – if it's the case that the Christian People's Party is going to vote against. Finally, I would like to address the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e983	The representative Sverre Myrli then drew up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e988	This is not about getting started – this is about continuing something that has been going on for a very long time. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a very good review of the matter. I think that the conclusion of using the already announced KVU for the Kongswingerbahn, the analysis of the possibility of further development of the Oslo-Gothenburg link, is straightforward, given the nature of these issues. Here we are moving in a well-known conflict between domestic needs and the need for cross-border transport for passengers and goods. I have registered that in the current NTP there are outlined seven foreign corridors that you will come back to in later rollovers. The big compromise has been to build the InterCity project first and then build on this. Thus, the Kongswingerbahn is part of this strategy, without being defined as part of InterCity, but by virtue of its great importance as a freight train both for the timber transport and for the train connection to North Norway. There are two proposals: one is about to ask for a KVU for the Norwegian part of the route between Oslo and Stockholm. It is to be seen in the context of the Swedish State Election Survey. I've been in for a long time, and in 2007 I was in the district of Akershus to adopt the growth corridor, which was just an investigation of what could be obtained from the cooperation between the two states. With respect to boasting of this government, I have found that what has happened was that after a year's funding grant from Hedmark County and Akershus County to operate the Stockholm train, despite poor finances, this government took this project into the state budget in 2014. This has meant that the Stockholm train has had a development that could not be imagined in the past. So something has happened. I'm going to take the trip Oslo–Stockholm now in the summer, on vacation, and I've found out that the train is going to go, even if there's work on certain sections. In the case of Oslo – Gothenburg, there is also a KVU. I got on the table The Megaregion of Western Scandinavia – it concerns Oslo, Gothenburg and Malmö. There are five million people living here, there are many universities, and there is a megaregion that could be used for something more – where the railways and roads can be built together. I was rapporteur in Vestby in 1988, and one of the first things I got on the table was to contribute money to an investigation of Oslo – Gothenburg for road and track, in view of opening it up in 2000, 12 years later. What has happened is that you managed to build the road – you opened Svinesundsbrua in 2005, as part of the hundred-year marker. The railway has not come this far, but it has, after all, been a development, between Oslo and Ski, or Ski-Moss, more precisely – now it is Oslo-Ski with tunnelling. But you didn't really get what you wanted. But there were investigations, and it's been lifted at the government level of former governments and this government. What it's stranded on is that you don't see that this can be realized given the financial statements you have domestically. What's new and important about both of these projects is that we get a private initiative on the Stockholm line that makes it possible to raise other capital, and there is also an opportunity for more alternative funding on Oslo–Gothenburg. That's some of what we're asking you to look at. There must be some more conversations with the other countries. So the national transport plan has assumed that InterCity should be the basis and the starting point for high-speed rail – or let's call it a high-speed track, because it's not very high-speed. Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim, Stockholm and Gothenburg and beyond in Europe should be based on the extremes of InterCity, plus doing something with the Kongswingerbahn, in any case, because it is an important transport year for goods. It is also what has been in focus in Gothenburg later, but it is clear that the important thing is not to reduce air traffic. The important thing is to develop these large labour and housing markets between Oslo and Gothenburg, and between Oslo and Stockholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1003	It's interesting to hear the representative I used to talk about the history of working with just these sections of the track. The signatures have also been part of and raised in Eastern cooperation, through my work in Uppland County. There are important sections of the track, and I would like to thank the case-speaker and the proposers for addressing this important matter. Our railway routes in and out of the country are particularly important for getting more goods on the road, but also for several travellers to choose trains over flights when travelling to our neighbouring country. In the opinion of the Committee on the Proposal for a Parliament and of the Council, many views and expectations were expressed on the draft currency arrangements for new lines on the Norwegian side for both the Oslo-Stockholm and Oslo-Göteborg sections. Both business and public operators such as the municipality and the county gave clear expectations for the improvement of the train link for both passenger and freight traffic across the borders between Norway and Sweden. The centre party is also concerned that a train should be operated at a faster speed in order to replace air traffic between the end points. By developing the rail service, you will also be able to provide a better offer for travellers who have their starting point or destination on the route between the end stations. This is something that cannot be delivered on. For the transport of goods, we have a call for increased freight traffic on trains to be particularly important for Oslo – Gothenburg, which will also have a positive effect on an increase in freight by rail over Gothenburg port and further down to the European continent. This was one of the messages that many people said on the listener. The centre party has noted that many people have called for the Kongswingerbahn to have a large potential for more freight traffic, but the conditions must also be met. For this reason, it is important to address both the potential and the type of development and bet that will give the most outlay for both passengers and goods by rail. The size has expressed clear ambitions for more freight to be carried on the railway. These corridors are then in and out of the country important to ensure that the railway is competitive towards road transport. The railway directorate’s action programme also has several initiatives that will provide better access for goods on the road. There are crossing tracks on the Dovrebahn and the Solørbahn and electrification of Hamar, Elverum and Kongswinger. Swingings in Elverum and Kongsvinger can also open up for faster and more environmentally friendly transport of goods on the road, but then the route across the borders of Sweden must not become the bottleneck that prevents such growth. The construction of Fehmarn Bælt, a combined rail and car connection between Lolland in Denmark and Fehmarn in Northern Germany, is an important extension that is now in progress and will do so even more so. This link shall be completed in the mid-2020s and will significantly reduce travel times and increase the capacity of freight and passenger transport between the Scandinavian countries and the continent. The central party supports the proposals made here by the representative Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV, to put in place a KVU both for Oslo-Stockholm and for Oslo-Göteborg. The size will be considered later today by an audit report from the National Audit Office that we are not in the vicinity of achieving the goal of more freight transport by rail. The development of KVUs in view of the development of these sections will be an important step in achieving the Storting objectives of increasing freight by road. The alternative will be that we will lose even more goods that are currently on the road, due to poor availability and thus great uncertainty for the customers who will have the goods up to the agreed time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1018	The background to this proposal, to which SV took the initiative and to which the entire opposition in the Committee is behind, is as simple as it is. On the Oslo–Stockholm route, passengers travel by plane largely because the journey time by train is now too long. For climate reasons, it must be a goal to get as many of these passengers on trains as possible. It's that simple, isn't it? How are we gonna do that? New investigations and initiatives in Sweden put the matter in a completely new light. The second proposal is to create a KVU for the Oslo–Gothenburg route. Göteborg has just been called Norway’s largest port. Good over 90 pst. of the goods going from there to the Oslo area, on rubber wheels, i.e. on trailers descending up the west coast of Sweden and through Eastfold, because the railway, especially on the Norwegian side, is unable to take this task. So with the proposal, you want to try to get a new deal in the planning of railway solutions between Oslo and the largest cities in Sweden. It is important to improve train provision for both freight and passengers on these routes in the short and medium term, as it is called. In other words, the design selection studies have to look at long-term development, but also at short- and medium-term improvements and sub-structures that fit in as part of an overall railway plan on these routes. First Oslo–Stockholm: For this route the journey time by train is today about five hours. It's too long to be competitive with aircraft – it's obvious. Swedish SJ has signalled large stakes of eight daily departures between Oslo and Stockholm from 2022. It is important that a KVU looks at measures that support this in the short term and helps to develop it further. As mentioned by the case-rapporteur, more than 20 bodies expressed themselves in the hearing, and everyone was at different angles in favour of the intention to increase traffic on the railways between Oslo and Sweden's two largest cities. I think all the committee members can confirm that. SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party see a clear need to see the Swedish Action Election Study and the planned KVU on the Norwegian side of the Kongswingerbahn in the context. So there's a new KVU for the whole route that evaluates all of the trasé options, like, for example. The representative Myrli framed, most appropriate. On the Oslo–Gothenburg route there is a slightly different situation. In fact, passenger traffic competes on trains there with the private car – it takes the most – but here we have regard to the goods, as I mentioned. There have been many investigations and initiatives, such as: the representative, Mr Igstad, mentioned. It has happened both in public and in private. But I can't see that there are any concrete plans for the cross-border traffic between Oslo and Gothenburg, or Copenhagen for that matter, in order to improve the train offer now. Some improvements can be made to the existing line system, but neither passenger transport nor, in particular, freight services on the Oslo-Gothenburg route can be competitive with passenger cars and lorries, respectively, before completely new routes are built. Any KVU has to consider all the proposed trasé alternatives and the representative Myrli mentioned two alternatives previously outlined. In its letter to the Committee, also referred to by the case-rapporteur, the Council of State refers to the overall strategic investigation to be conducted by the Government in order to identify, where appropriate, further needs for investigation throughout the route from Oslo down to Copenhagen. It's all right, SV thinks we should support that. But a KVU is a little bit more detailed and will be more leading for concrete action and for decisions in Stortinget, as we see it. I will come back to some assessments about the Nordic aspect in a later article. We stand by our proposal, which we are part of, together with the Center Party and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1041	Let me start by giving the proposers an honor to record an exciting and important project. I also want to acknowledge the commitment that SV in particular has shown to the railway, and for the genuine will they point to bet on the train. It may also appear that the legacy of Hallgeir Langeland is now being taken up and continued by the representative Nävra. It's a good legacy to continue. Then it is gratifying that the railway gets a lot of attention, in the sense that there is no longer any doubt that the train is a forward-looking and important means of transport – for all political parties. Since the years have passed, it is no longer only the Left and Christian People's Party that speaks the railway case. Now there is a cross-political consensus on strengthening the railway. We also see that the Progress Party, which in the 1990s considered the train to be ill-suited to passenger transport, is now involved in major efforts. The Christian People's Party and SV are probably far on the way to agree on the objectives, but we have very different views on the instruments, including: how best to organise the railways in Norway. But there's another debate. Now it is about KVU on the Norwegian side for the sections Oslo – Stockholm and Oslo – Gothenburg. I will not be surprised if the proposers now wonder why the Christian People's Party does not support the proposals – now that I have just given them credit for taking up an exciting and important project. I'm going to try to explain that, because it's so that we don't vote for the proposals that exist here today from the minority in the committee. As I said, the Christian People's Party agrees with the goal of getting more travelers from planes to trains. We also agree that more of the freight should go on rails. This is precisely why – and because we are ambitious on behalf of the whole railway sector, and because we want to provide customers with the best possible offer – we support the massive investment we now have on the railways in Norway in NTP. Thus, more than ever before are invested to strengthen the competitiveness of the train. People should notice that the train offer is getting better. The SV proposal is interesting, but SV has not implemented real priorities between expensive projects. In the national transport plan, the Christian People's Party has made such priorities. Together with the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, we are involved in ensuring a targeted bet on the railway. Particularly in the InterCity area in the East, there are priorities to be made, but also in Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger, we have important projects in progress. Double tracks on the routes between Oslo and Skien, Halden and Lillehammer will require a lot of resources. This also applies to the interconnection of the Sørlandsbanen and Vestfoldbanen. The Christian People's Party is committed to following this timetable. The milestones decided by the Storting must be kept. We have clearly expressed that all the way, including from this pulpit, as late as April 10th this year. A new KVU on the new routes is exciting. But it will in turn create new expectations, which we are afraid could lead to pressing out already adopted projects. We don't think that's a proper priority. Through the freight package, we have prioritised significant investments in infrastructure to strengthen rail freight. The Ringerix Railway is also part of the InterCity area, as part of the holistic link. We believe it is important to implement the projects that have been adopted. We'll do that as quickly and as safely as possible. Now we have to concentrate the resources. We need to keep focus and ensure the implementation of important projects that have already been adopted. I have taken the round as requested by the representative Myrli as to what our party traps in Akershus mean. They agree with this priority that we should hold a tough course in relation to what is in the NTP in this round. That is why we do not support the proposal for a KVU for Oslo-Stockholm and Oslo-Göteborg now. But I still want to stress that the project is very interesting, and that therefore this is something we will consider in subsequent rolling of the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1064	It's important to build a good railway. It connects both communities and regions. I'm glad that the opposition is showing commitment to this, just like the government has already done. I'm a little more surprised that the Workers' Party says it's time we started this work, when we've been doing this for at least four and a half years from the government. That's what I'm going to do, regardless of whether the opposition is now waking up and promoting suggestions to do what we're already doing. There has been a strong growth in railway infrastructure investment, both in the years we have had today's government and planned to continue. In the national transport plan, the railway is located to get about 45 pst. of the investment funds set aside. When I read the two proposals from the opposition, I think in my quiet mind: but these are the things we are already doing. I also wrote that in the letter to the committee. We have already announced that we will conduct a KVU for the Kongsvingerbahn, which will take into account the investigation already carried out by Sweden for the Oslo-Stockholm section, which will see this in the context. One knocks open doors – the government is already running. Similarly, I think when someone points in the direction of Gothenburg. Here a KVU was implemented under the previous government. I thought they'd be familiar with it. Based on that, investment measures already in place. All the way to Halden we're going to build, and of course we're going to build on to Lake Corn. Ergo is also that route not only an investigator, but actually is building. So it makes a little bit of sense to make a new investigation for the same distance. So I just remind you that a Norwegian-Swedish study was conducted, which was presented in May 2016, to look at both short-term, medium-term and long-term measures. So when the opposition wants you to look at this, it started already a few months after the government change in 2013. It's good that the opposition engages, and in this way it marks its wishes. I am really also very happy that the opposition and position here agree that this is the way to work – to investigate the route around Kongswinger. But I do not agree that we need new investigations for the route to Gothenburg. It's about doing the construction that we're already doing. Taking an art break there to go back to the investigation stage – when we are already working on regulation plans, construction plans, contracts and the like – I find a little pointless. So there's no disagreement about the intentions here. When the Newspaper today has made a look that gives the impression that the possibility of building better train connections with Stockholm and Gothenburg is now missing, it is completely wrong. We're already doing this. Just a few days ago, I talked about the subject with my Swedish colleague. We met in Leipzig. I met his Secretary of State in Brussels a few weeks before that. In a month's time, I'm going to Helsinki to meet my Nordic colleagues to discuss further work both on how we can look at opportunities for financing infrastructure with new methods, how we're going to work for cross-border cooperation, and in a Nordic perspective on infrastructure. We have e.g. together with Finland, one is now beginning to discuss the railways of the Churches, which you have dreamed of for many years, but which are now becoming more concrete during today’s government. We already see outside the country's borders, but it's not a good idea to investigate just for the purpose of the investigation. Once we've already notified a KVU for the distance, it doesn't make sense that one should have another KVU for the same distance. As a matter of fact, the proposal is superfluous. What also worries me a little when the opposition promotes this is that SV argues for – and wants – building more railways by cancelling road projects in Norway. At the same time, we know that the Central Party has strong forces that will cancel railway projects in the East, rather than using infrastructure money in the West. Then I think that the safest thing here is to hold the course that the government has taken. This proposal does not bring anything faster to the ground, on the contrary, but it creates greater uncertainty about what is the long-term strategy, and not least about its effectiveness. However, I think that the opposition should be given credit for at least now looking at the possibility of looking at organisational grips, in order to build infrastructure in a better way. The fact that the opposition is now raising the possibility of looking at a state-owned company on the road, as they have argued strongly against, shows that it has nevertheless been possible to move the opposition slightly over four and a half years with bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1085	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1091	Opening open doors is certainly today's expression, regardless of the issues being debated. The Minister of Transport said in his speech that these are the things they are doing. In the case of a proposed impact assessment between Oslo and Stockholm, the Minister of Transport refers to the planned KVU of Kongsvingerbanen. It's very good, but it's a slightly broader perspective for the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV have applied to this matter. We want the entire Oslo-Stockholm railway corridor to be viewed, and the three options with alignment via Kongsvinger, Bjørkelangen and Askim. My question is: will the planned concept selection investigation for Kongsvingerbanen look at the three different routes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1098	The opposition's proposal states that a government should carry out a draft election inquiry for the Norwegian part and that one should look this up against the Swedish. There is no point in looking at the entire Oslo-Stockholm section from the Norwegian side. We're now working on what's going to be a concept selection investigation, and then it's natural that we look at the relevant sections, and that we're working with our railway professionals to get the best possible investigation concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1103	It's possible I'm putting myself incomprehensible, so I'm trying again. I understand that the Minister of Transport is going to conduct a concept selection investigation for the Kongswingerbahn. That's very good. However, there are also two other options for line-tracking, including: the company named Oslo-Stockholm 2:55, which has launched a rail connection via Lillestrøm, Bjørkelangen and Karlstad. It has little to do with today's Kongswingerbahn, i.e. it touches the lower parts of the Kongswingerbahn. My question is quite simply: will the Konswingerbahn concept selection investigation to which the Minister of Transport refers only concern the Kongswingerbahn, or will one also be able to look at the options that have been launched via the Birchlange and Askim? I think it should be pretty simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1112	As I wrote in the third paragraph on page 2 of the letter I sent, cross-border traffic will be an important element of the investigation. So you have to have a slightly wider perspective than that. I think it is in a way very positive to hear the Workers' Party argue here that now it is a private initiative to build the railway, so that the state has to be involved and have the alternative also into what the state is going to be with and investigate and finance. In my ears, it sounds like the Workers' Party would normally say, that one is planning to privatize the railway, and that one is going to use public funds to investigate alternatives. It is then a very interesting signal the Workers' Party comes with, and I take it with me in our further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1119	It is good to hear that the Council of State is working on the matter. He criticises the opposition for not realizing that a work is going on, and that we're closing open doors, but there's a dozen listening parties who have perceived it the same and who are calling for a KVU on these pathways. The comments from the government parties also show that it is not relevant to sort this out now, because there is little interest from the Swedish government. It is good to hear that the Council of State is in contact with its Swedish colleague, but has the Council of State informed of its work, and what has he done to raise this up on the Swedish government table?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1126	I think it must be the Swedish ministers who are responsible for lifting their affairs on the Swedish government table. But I am concerned about communicating Norwegian wishes and goals, and that we can look at the potential together. We're going to have a meeting in Helsinki on 26 or 27 June with our Nordic colleagues, and this is one of the things that we agree we're going to discuss, just to see how we can get to things. At the same time, there is no doubt that Norway will invest much more money in the railways in the next few years than the Swedes. When Sweden communicates with us, they are most concerned with the Stockholm-Gothenburg-Malmö section. There is little discussion about spending a lot of money on the connections to Norway. It's important to me, because if we're going to succeed in this, it doesn't help if only Norway builds to the limit. We have to make sure that Sweden does the same thing. When they have less money than us, we need to use even more energy to make sure they see the need. Unfortunately, the routes to Norway are not the main roads for them, but they are our main roads to Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1131	It is nice that the Council of State guests SV quite often, with quotes and minutes, and talks about New Roads and our attitude to it, considering possibly having a state-owned railway development company. These are very different things – not ownership, but what to build. That's what's behind it. I have to remind the Council of State. Otherwise, it is well an advantage to do what perhaps also the representative Myrli pointed out, to find some other expression than ‘tap open doors’. We've heard that many times today. Then I have to ask the Council of State to prepare draft selections for new sections between Oslo and Stockholm, i.e. the KVU proposal, is to open doors. I did not get a proper answer from Solvik-Olsen. We, the proposers, would like to see more alternative paths for this path to Stockholm than the Kongsvinger proposal to be explored. Will the Council of State discuss further proposals to the east?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1138	It is quite possible that the opposition is tired of hearing that they are knocking open doors, but when they propose something that the government has already notified it is working on, it is nevertheless the most comprehensive expression in this matter. When it comes to what's going to be investigated in the KVU, we'll get back to it. But in KVUs, there should always be some different concepts. That means that if you only have to look at the Kongswingerbahn where it is today, there is no need for a KVU. We have removed many KVUs that the red-green government planned in its time, because we have said that the road should not go anywhere else than where it goes now. In this case, KVUs should not be carried out, but municipal sub-plans and regulatory plans. Conceptual selection studies are about looking at many different solutions in the same area. That is why it is really in the nature of the format that we have to look at it more widely. But exactly which is it too early to say anything about. Whether it is the task of the State to conduct an investigation on behalf of a private company operating in a commercial capacity, we can also come back to the question of whether the opposition considers it appropriate to use the taxpayers’ money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1147	If one opens the doors, it is in any case interesting to get a grip on what is in the room inside that door. That is what we do not get the answer from the Minister for Transport. Now I've tried, and Arne Nävra has tried, up to several times. A concept selection investigation for the Kongswingerbahn will necessarily have to be about the Kongswingerbahn somewhere where it is today. The middle option that's sketched, over the bear's hose, has nothing to do with the Kongswinger track, it goes much further south. The southernmost option, which goes via Ski and Ashim – at least about like this – goes far away from Kongsvingerbanen. Then I don't understand that it's going to be so hard to answer if that concept selection investigation will also be about the two southernmost corridors, when the Minister of Transport says that this is something they're doing. The proposal is to look at all three options in the context. Will the Minister for Transport do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1154	I think I've answered it completely already. When you're working on this, you're obviously seeing it in a broad perspective, but we're also going to work with the railway professionals we have, and look at what's relevant to discussing, both in terms of what Sweden might think is interesting, and in terms of what we're going to spend our resources on. Given that some of these options are built with private capital, it is quite obvious to me that the Workers' Party now believes that private capital should be built in Norway when one opposes the fact that private operators otherwise participate in and maintain the railways in Norway. Again: I think it is no wonder to see what is behind doors that are already open. Then it is rather about showing curiosity and sticking your head in. I feel that this is what has been the defect of the working party in particular. When we talk about what this government is doing, what we've got a majority for with the Christian People's Party, it's very comprehensive in this area. Then it's really just to ask written questions or meet me in the corridors, and I'm more than happy to tell you what the government is doing. It is far more than the representative Myrli tends to give the impression in public debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1161	After a number of replies from representatives here, among others. Well, the Council of State doesn't answer what's the real question. When you're talking about a concept selection investigation for the Konswingerbahn, it's natural to think that there's a path that goes through Kongswinger, or at least in the vicinity of Kongswinger. A specific question is whether to consider in the concept selection investigation the options that go through the Bear's Serpent and Ashim, which do not affect the Kongswingerbahn at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1167	I see that as a statement, not a question. I just stand by what I have said before: we see it in a broad perspective. We're doing a lot of work on the railways, we're doing an investigation, we've done a study on what goes to Gothenburg, and we're building. That's why I maintain that what the opposition here is proposing is good and good, but it brings nothing new to the square with regard to the work that the government is already doing, when it comes to cleaning up a railway that has expired for eight years, when the Senter party was in and out of control, and which we are now helping to get better and better. I also think most people appreciate that. I also think that people in Kongswinger will appreciate getting a better railway up there, even though I perceive that the opposition here is trying to turn the focus elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1172	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1179	I noticed that the Council of State chooses not to answer repeated questions about what the concept selection investigation should contain, whether it should also consider the three different options that lie on the table, respectively via the current trajectory via Kongswinger, a whole new trajectory via the Bjørkelangen or via Askim. It would have been an advantage for the debate on whether the Council of State answered the specific questions that he was given repeatedly. So to this by turning open the doors. Well, it's interesting to hear the representative of the Cooperation Party from the government parties, the Christian People's Party, who uses his intervention to argue against our proposal, since it can create confusion about the priorities of the National Transport Plan, and that we should focus on what has already been adopted. If that's the case, it's a little strange that the Council of State believes that our proposal is only to open doors, when the representative of the Christian People's Party uses as a justification that this will create ambiguity about the priorities that have already been made. We in the Center Party disagree with that. It's about starting a job. If you want to be positive about thinking about connections between Oslo-Stockholm and Oslo-Göteborg, you have to start working through concrete processes. To the representative of the Christian People's Party, who says in his post that it has been checked out here with his local representatives that it is quite fine to go against: Well, the Christian People's Party's first candidate for the Akershu deposit election went in order to speed up the construction of trains via the Bear's Serpent to Sweden. It was that message that was conveyed from the Christian People's Party at that time. It is very important to get ahead of this work. The representative of Igstad pointed out that there may be a difference between domestic needs and the needs of cross-border traffic. For example, in the case of the Kongswingerbahn, it currently covers both needs. It covers an important need for local transport in the neighbourhood. It also covers an important need for freight transport. Through my hometown today, Sørumsand, it passes 180,000 tons of fish every year. It's not fish that's been fished in Glomma. There are fish that are fishing in Lofoten, which have gone with the Ofotbanen down through Sweden, back via Kongsvingerbanen and going to Gardermoen and out of Norway. It shows the need that is today. The same applies also in the case of timber transport. The Kongswingerban today provides important needs. It is also important for the future to strengthen either that route or to consider different options for strengthening travel with both passenger and freight transport between Oslo and Oslo and Gothenburg in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1192	That the Progress Party and the Right and the Government cannot support the proposals that lie here from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are really quite scandalous – at least in the light of what a number of Right and Advance Party representatives have previously said about the construction and pace of the Oslo-Stockholm and Oslo-Göteborg construction. Now, obviously, the Progress Party Council will just reject the whole case. It is something new because this is a different attitude from what we have repeatedly heard in election campaigns, heard from the representatives, the colleagues of the Council of State, the party colleagues of Eastfold: very too fast expansion Oslo–Stockholm, very too fast expansion Oslo–Goteborg, Eastfoldbanen. But what happens in practice? At least not rapid expansion, but the opposite. Then I react a little when I hear the case rapporteur show that the Nordic Council would be an argument to in a way reject these proposals. It is not interrelated, for just a few weeks ago, the Nordic Council has decided that they want more progress on transport corridors in the Nordic countries and between Norway and Sweden. So that argument doesn't matter. What we see is disappointing – the Right Party and the Advance Party are now opposed to the proposals. But it only lies on the pile of beautiful election vows from these two parties – the Advance Party and the Right – from which they are now running. It is only to record that the State Council of the Progress Party responsible for transport appears more like a cling to the foot – at least in the case of representatives from its own party and their promises and promises of Oslo-Stockholm and Oslo-Gotenburg railway – than anything else. That's the way it is. The party of progress in government is not credible. I sit and listen to questions after questions after questions. The Council of State is not even able to give a clear answer on, for example: a trajectory whether Ashim shall be part of this. It's incredibly disappointing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1210	I think you might be able to relate to some of the facts, also in this case. For the Kongswingerbahn, a KVU is implemented, for the Kongswingerbahn is the main freight train in Norway. It is located in NTP, it is to be implemented. Then maybe one of the moments to consider the Kongswingerbahn – and it's a play, a advice – is that you look at the capacity through the Oslo Tunnel. It may make sense to send the Stockholm train via Askim, but it is hardly reasonable to send it across. And Akershus County has dealt with this matter, in 2007 – then even the Labour Party was in government – and then they said that one should go about Kongswinger, because it has something to do with how the tracks on which the Stockholm train is going can also have a regional significance in Norway. I am uncertain whether sending it over the Bear's Serpent will have the great regional significance versus sending it over Ashim or over Kongswinger, as the county council in its time asked. Then we have other cross-border railways that are in the cool, and maybe even further ahead, and that's the Ofot Railway. There is a great interest for the Swedes, and we also have an interest in it. The Swedes have no interest in the relations between Gothenburg and Norway for the 10 miles for which they are to be responsible. We've been struggling with that all along, and then I mean we've been sitting with the investigation and making all these plans. It's made a lot of plans. If you don't believe it, you can read the ‘8 million town’ – that's the Oslo–København stretch – where both Oslo, Gothenburg, Malmö and Copenhagen were put together in something called the Scandinavian Arena, and explored the possibilities. The possibilities are enormous, but we have never come beyond the border between regional policy and state policy. There it has stopped in Sweden, which has stopped in Norway, and where it has stopped in Denmark, because this should be prioritised within the overall picture we have. I think we all too often go into KVUs, concept selection investigations, without really knowing if we have the opportunity to do it. We're making a lot of plans that, if they're going to be implemented, might already be too old. I think what we're doing now is we're betting on the Kongswinger course. We should look at the capacity of Kongsvingerbahnen, whether it should be relieved by looking at other things regarding the Stockholm train, and we are betting on getting more goods on the way from Gothenburg. But Gothenburg port is not a unit. They split their goods in different places. It makes it extremely difficult to get collectors on trains.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1219	The last speaker, the representative Igstad, is a wise man. Almost everything he said, I think we should have these two KVUs in place. Several of the arguments he comes up with actually substantiate it. But what I wanted to do here now is really this with Nordic cooperation, cross-border transport. As mentioned earlier today, we had a debate on Nordic cooperation here. Then they used a lot of nice words, and it's been used many times. There is hardly anything more physically measurable than transport years in terms of cooperation between two neighbouring countries. For example, I can. refer to the notes in an OECD study dated 15 March. This report points to weaknesses in railway infrastructure, in particular the lack of cross-border transport planning up here. Then we have this private initiative, the European connection, that many companies and organisations are behind. They strongly press for a new railway, which should be developed in parallel with the intercity projects and the high-speed projects planned in Sweden and to be completed by 2030. The Nordic Association naturally raises the level of Nordic cooperation when they write to the Committee in their consultation note: ‘We simply cannot afford to avoid improving the connections between Norway and Sweden.’ So the association wholeheartedly supports the KVU proposals we have promoted. The Nordic Council has been mentioned. They have also committed to closer transport cooperation in the Nordic region and recommended a common Nordic fund to plan cross-border transport solutions. This testifies to a concern that we do not think enough Nordic solutions, perhaps especially between Norway and Sweden. The Oslo region has become even more concrete in its opinion and recommends the establishment of a Swedish-Norwegian and a Swedish-Danish Transport Commission for a more coordinated approach to cross-border transport planning. We proposers also ask the government to cooperate closely and to be in continuous dialogue with the Swedish authorities when both of these KVUs are to be developed. The proposal for a transport commission was included in the proposal, but we took it out again. I'm pretty sure at least from the SV's side we'll look at it again and possibly promote it concretely, because I think it has a lot to do. Several cross-border projects have been mentioned, including: Ofotbanen. It is with different angles and different positions these two countries operate, often not fully coordinated and at different times, so a commission can be exciting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1238	I had not intended to take the floor, but when I heard the change of lines instead, it struck me that back in the old days, I kept saying, when I was young and listened to debates at Stortinget, I did not always understand what the ministers answered, and I did not know myself quite again in the answer that the ministers came with in relation to what was asked of questions. And there are many government councils that are bad at answering -- or good at turning away. But this is not how I perceive the Council of State Ketil Solvik-Olsen regarding the KVU of the Kongswingerban. He was clear and clear on repeated questions. I lost count of how many times he got the same question, it was at least four times. Yes, the Kongswingerbahn KVU is a KVU for the Kongswingerbahn, but – because it was a ‘but’ there – the minister was open to look at other solutions and adjustments, but then, of course, still attached to what is the starting point, which is the Kongswingerbahn. I really think it was a very good and clear answer, so I don't understand the need to repeat and repeat the question. In the case of the Center Party, it's very interesting and also a little bit exciting both to hear and to follow up on the Center Party. There's a big difference between position and opposition, and it's understandable, there's a lot of people who recognize it, but there's also a big difference within the central part of the opposition. And that's interesting to see. The neighboring seat was last year, just a year ago, out there, criticizing the government for spending too much money on the railways in the East. The centre party wanted to move money from the railway to the east and into the districts, while today they want to spend more money on trains in the east. That's pretty interesting. Before the Central Party manages to face issues such as more money for rail in the East or less money for rail in the East, they should be able to agree internally before they go out and criticize the government, the opposite is to take things in the wrong order. I encourage the Centre Party to take a small group meeting and find out where to give priority to the train effort and the transport effort, whether it is in the districts, or whether there is even more to bet on the central East.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1251	I would like to encourage the representative Johnsen to read the Central Party's alternative NTP, because there's a clear indication of the Central Party's priorities. We proposed on all projects as high a priority for rail in the Eastern region as the government parties agreed, while giving priority to road operations, including: in the West – higher than the Progress Party was able to do. So to the KVU: If this is how to understand, as the representative Johnsen has understood, that the KVU of the Kongswingerbahn should not include and evaluate a train section over the Bear's Serpent, that one should not consider a train section over Ashim, then the Council of State could have said it clearly in its answer. He could say no, the two sections are not to be assessed by their side. When I hear the representative Igstad, it seems that the representative Igstad has concluded candy. For all intents and purposes, I believe these are many good arguments for the Kongswingerbahn. I also believe that there have been many good suggestions from the Kongsvinger region and from the municipalities along the Kongsvingerbahn, for example to build a new line from Årnes to Gardermoen to free up capacity on today's Kongsvingerbahn. But the point is that here there are different concepts, different alternatives, and it makes sense to have a concept selection study that evaluates all three. That is what is in the proposal, and that is what representatives of the government parties are now clearly in favour of cancelling. It makes sense to have a broad concept selection inquiry, and when it is on the table, to make priorities according to what is reasonable from the arguments put on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1260	I do not believe that the Storting today cancels anything at all. We're going to continue the work that's going well. It's not like we're doing the work that both the Councils of State are doing, and that, not least, the Nordic Council and Nordic cooperation are calling for. I was accused, as the rapporteur-in-Office, by Stein Erik Lauvås of believing that Nordic cooperation and the Nordic Council's decision were a stop, approximately, to this proposal. It's the other way around. That's actually what shows that there's a lot of commitment to this. Many people are really committed to exploiting the railway infrastructure between Norway and Sweden in several areas. State councils have mentioned between Finland and Norway, i.e. up to Kirkenes. Ofot track has been mentioned. In my district, we have the Meråker Railway. There is no one who has mentioned today, so I can talk for it, then. Then we also have the Kongswingerbahn and further south, where there are clearly some great possibilities because it can become a common residential and working region. I hope that what has emerged in this debate is a continuation of the work that is well under way. Not least the fact that we are going to have a Council of Ministers for Transport in Nordic cooperation, I think this brings this up on the agenda quite quickly. I hear that it will be a meeting in Helsinki by the end of June. There, I think, we clearly get views from this debate by the Council of State Ketil Solvik-Olsen, and I look forward to the fact that both the KVU of the Kongswingerbahn and the further developments towards this can lead to an exciting development of the railway in the Middle North cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1269	The representative Nils Aage Igstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1275	I feel a certain need to clarify one thing: a KVU for the Kongswingerbahn is necessary because the Kongswingerbahn has a special position. It's a path to lie there, but one needs to look at the capacity. Crossrails are to be built, stations are to be expanded along the Kongswinger track, and solutions are also to be provided to reduce the distance for timber coming from the Gudbrand valley and down to Kongswinger. It's part of the What you might consider is whether the new train from Stockholm, if it comes, should go elsewhere than to Kongswinger – that's what it's really about. I believe at least that there is reason to see whether Sweden's track should have a regional significance and not just shorten travel time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1282	With the danger of insulting the representative Myrli, I take the floor more than once: I have counted carefully, and there are several opposition politicians who have three minutes left. As there have been claims that it is the same as scrapping the project if one does not support it by the government parties, I just want to confirm that we have not intended to scrape anything at all. We intend to continue the work of looking at Oslo-Stockholm and Oslo-Göteborg. We intend to continue working as we started late in the autumn of 2013, when I traveled to Stockholm and started talking to them about it. What actually got news headlines was that something is finally happening, finally it's not just internal talk in Norway, at last you start contacting the Swedes. We've been doing that for four and a half years. But it takes time, simply because the routes to Norway for Sweden are back roads, not highways where they are going. That's the challenge. But we're not giving up, we're continuing that work. As I have mentioned, we have already conducted investigations on the Oslo – Gothenburg route. That report was submitted in May 2016. It's okay to bring with you when you give the impression that nothing is happening. We have notified this KVU on the Oslo-Stockholm section, where we will look on the Norwegian side and also on what the Swedishs have already done. Ergo is hard – for my mind at least – to understand how some people conclude that nothing is happening now. I also remember that the appropriations for railway operations have increased by over 50 pst. with the government of the day. That's a lot of billion dollars. Of course, we get criticism from the opposition, but I don't see an overall alternative to criticising the government. We have already confirmed once again in this debate why the last government was unable to get specific speed on its things. So there's people here saying they're going to spend more money building roads, and there's other parts of the opposition that are going to spend less money building roads. There won't be much going on when you can't agree whether it should be a bet or not. One thing is to discuss whether to build a road or not. When one does not even agree to increase or decrease, it is difficult to agree on the routes. So we're left with the government parties and the Christian People's Party finding good solutions and having good progress, which makes it happen. To the opposition's suggestion: I appreciate the commitment, because here we work in the same direction, but I think it's a little weird to create so much black paint and so much confusion around the theme when we're all pretty much in agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1293	There is no doubt that there is a great deal of will from all parties and parties in the hall to bet on the railway and raise the problems around the routes from and into our country. It's a constructive and positive recording, and I'm a little surprised when I hear the council show that it's black measurement and opening doors. And there's criticism of the opposition that one actually raises something that's a challenge for both the county and the business community in the region. I can show you the recording from the representative, Igstad’s own state, to the National Transport Plan for 2018-2029. They have two points on the railway. One goes on public transport from and to Oslo, the other is the Oslo–Gothenburg route. This route is important for linking the Norwegian rail system with Europe and important for both freight and passenger traffic. It is necessary that Norway and Sweden initiate joint work with KVU to upgrade the route. It is the same thing that we have now put on the table and put forward proposals to get started, which the county council has been working with for many years, including the representative Igstad in the driver's seat. Tor André Johnsen has a visit to the Central Party that we are so disunity and have different priorities when it comes to the railway. Yes, there are different opinions in the Center Party, just as it is in the Progress Party. I note that there is a discussion about the future of Color Line as well, in the same line that we're discussing how to prioritize on railway issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1304	Let me first say that I also understand that the government parties cannot support all the proposals promoted by the opposition. I have been part of a government party for many years, during the middle of the day for quite a long time in Stortinget, so I can do that a lot about it. But from time to time, the Storting can gather, both opposition and position, on proposals that one agrees on. After listening to the debate here today, it is still incomprehensible to me why we cannot unite on the proposals that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are promoting today. It is totally incomprehensible that the Left Party and the Christian People's Party in particular have ended up in the situation they have now been in. They argue strongly, clearly and clearly to look at the rail links between Oslo and Stockholm and between Oslo and Gothenburg, but they vote against the two proposals that are just about to be examined. It's a shame that we have a huge majority that have so low ambitions for the railway and so low ambitions for the cross-border routes. I have noticed that the government parties, which make up the majority of the transport committee, write in the statement: ‘However, the majority believe that a KVU is not current at this stage, as the project does not have a good enough anchor in the Swedish government.’ It is therefore the Swedish government that is to determine the level of ambition for the development of the railways in Norway! I'm not so sure what it says is right either. As far as I know, the national transport plan in Sweden is due to be presented in these days. Maybe it's presented just now – before the weekend it wasn't, it's maybe just days more. It corresponds to our transport plan. How they'll bet there, we'll have to wait and see. We heard the same thing about Ofotbanen. In the national transport plan, it was stated that there was no need to invest so much on the Norwegian side, because the Swedes are not so eager to expand Ofotbanen. When the transport committee was in Stockholm and had contact with its colleagues in Riksdag and with the department now in March, it was the opposite impression we put back on. So it's not right that the Swedes are not interested in expanding the cross-border paths. So finally to my good friend Igstad: I fully agree with him on the meaning of the Kongswingerban. It is very important for the transport of goods east-west and north-south. It's not to be rocked. It must be expanded, and it must be strengthened. But there is no contradiction between this and looking at the total rail offer between Oslo and Stockholm – and then looking at all the options. But unfortunately, the Storting won't.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1320	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1325	I also find it very regrettable and strange that the government parties could not agree with these KVU proposals. I think it's search. I can only refer to the committee trip we had to Stockholm and Gothenburg in the winter, and to the hearing opinions on the matter. The great positiveness of rail development between Norway and Sweden must have made an impression on them too, and it is difficult to understand this reluctance to explore the possibilities to the east. I find it difficult to attribute this to something other than that it is politically unwilling because the initiative came from the wrong angle, that is from the opposition, and from the SV in particular. I thank you for the pleasant words of the Christian People's Party and regret, of course, that their conclusion was desired, from our point of view, but this is now the political life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1332	I think it's very strange to get that post from SV. After the long debate, where everyone points to the will and interest of trying to develop this together, SV concludes that no, the government will scrape it. It's no wonder we spend a lot of time in this room discussing customs and clothing when it's the conclusion of the opposition after such a debate. I was just up and said we're going to work on this, that I'm going to meet my colleagues, that we're working to find solutions. So that's what's going on. The size doesn't have to decide this when we're already running. Then one can just as well decide that the government will present a government budget in October every year, but we do so independently of a proposal in Stortinget, because that is how we work. So we're doing the same thing here. That's why I think that making the kind of claims from the Stortinge pulpit after we've actually communicated the very opposite thing over and over again is completely pointless.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1339	The President would suggest that the concept of ‘customs and clothing’ is not in good parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1344	It's actually a good mood around this case. It was when we were on our way to Stockholm, and when we were in Gothenburg, and it has also been in connection with the hearing. It's very good atmosphere and good engagement around this case. It is then uplifting that the Council of State has given us clear notice that the work continues in line with what has been adopted earlier, and what has been initiated against the Councils of State in the other countries. Then I think we are very pleased in Stortinget that this work continues at its good speed. We hope that it will also be implemented. In fact, it is also a little dependent on the private initiative and the private engagement that several have shown us – the Oslo-Stockholm project 2:55, which Sverre Myrli mentioned, was for me at least a new and a very interesting concept, which should clearly be listened to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1349	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1365	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1374	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its cooperation on the suspension. We are well aware that there is a tough hold on the Oslopack 3 Steering Group and I want to praise the parties for their willingness to make compromises that make Oslopack 3 an important piece of both local and national transport policy. Oslo and Akershus have a special responsibility as the hub of the transport system both on the road and on the road and in the air. I would like to stress the importance of this, especially as regards Norway's ability to achieve the climate objectives set out in the Paris Agreement. Transport needs are high in this area, and the shift from private cars to public transport, bicycles and corridors and the transfer of goods from road to sea and rail provides a major positive impact on national statistics. Much of the goods transported by road and rail are destined for the Oslo region, and many of the work journeys and leisure trips have their origin or end point here. More than 50 pst. of the country’s collective travel takes place in Oslo and Akershus – a total of 371 million journeys per year. But despite this, there are more than 112 million passages in the bombing in the year – or 306,000 passages per day – one way. Much of this is useful traffic, but daily work travel also accounts for a large proportion. An annual population growth of 15 000 to 20 000 inhabitants per year further increases transport demand. When the committee was traveling in Oslo and Akershus a few weeks ago, it was good to be able to record the offensive attitude to these challenges as a meeting in Oslo and Akershus. The propositions we're dealing with today are based on Prop. 86 S for 2016-2017, which was adopted in Stortinget last year. It proposed the introduction of a new tariff system with time- and environmental-differentiated tariffs at three different stages. Step 1 involved the introduction of time and environment-differentiated toll tariffs in existing toll sections in Oslo. Those amendments were introduced on 1 October 2017. The proposal also set out projects and actions assumed to be funded by Oslopackak 3. Step 2 requires additional bombing at the Oslo city border for traffic from Rome and Follo against Oslo. At the same time, new collection points are planned in Oslo on Ring 2 with arms. Furthermore, it is proposed to introduce a charge for electric cars in tariff group 1. The aim is to introduce step 2 from 1 March 2019. Step 3 further increases the tariffs for electric cars in tariff group 1. It is an objective to introduce stage 3 from 1 March 2020. The local authorities have concluded that the State will contribute 50 pst. of the investment costs of several heavier public transport infrastructure projects. It's the Fornebuban, a new centre tunnel for the T-Bahn, an orbital solution for Lower Rome and a new T-Bahn signalling and securing system. Operation, maintenance and upgrading of existing T-Bahns and overall plan for upgrading existing T-Bahns adapted to new T-Bahns are also part of the locally revised agreement. It is worth noting that several of the major public transport projects considered relevant by local authorities are at an early stage of the plan and investigation. High uncertainty is therefore linked to cost estimates. The further priority shall be managed through portfolio management and the scope and priorities shall be assumed to be adapted to the available financial framework. The Ministry indicates that the loan envelope shall not exceed SEK 6,3 billion. 2013-kronor. The Ministry further stresses that, in the case of possible 50/50 projects, funds have been allocated in the National Transport Plan 2018-2029 to Fornebubanen and new T-Bahn Tunnel between Majorstuen and Tøen/Ensjøen. Of the total tolls, it is estimated that about 72 pst. will go to investment and operation of public transport, 13 pst. for bicycle measures and 15 pst. to clean road measures. It is worth noting that local authorities have agreed that battery-electric vehicles will pay tolls for the introduction of Oslopackak 3 step 2. This means that from 1 March next year, payments will be made in the bombardment for clean electric cars. It is within the national rules adopted by the Storting. One important factor is that many more toll stations are set up that allocate expenditure to several. It will provide lower tariffs for many of those currently running through the bombing process, while increasing overall revenue. Time and environment-differentiated tariffs will also be continued in the new bomb sections.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1399	After demanding negotiations, the parties to the Oslopacket 3 have agreed on a revised agreement. The objective is efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport for a growing region. ‘It has been demanding to do so, but the agreement that has now been concluded is very important for this region.’;» This was said by the road director, who led the negotiations on Oslopackak 3. Oslo will grow with almost 200,000 inhabitants over the next 20 years. This crop cannot be taken by car. The prosperity of those who need it needs to be improved. Therefore, motor vehicle use needs to be reduced. Therefore, priority needs to be given to collective travellers, pedestrians and cyclists – simpler and more accessible solutions for them. At the same time, we must ensure clean and safe air for our citizens, improve the quality of life and contribute to a green business. Oslo and Akershus will show the way for Norway and Europe to become a sustainable big city. They will establish close and committed regional cooperation on land and transport development. This Agreement shall apply for the period 2018-2036. It's a long time. It is also crucial for the rest of the country that Oslo and its surroundings succeed. The infrastructure around Gardermoen, Oslo Central Station and Oslo Port is also part of the transport network for the rest of the country, both for people and for goods. In order for Oslo to succeed, the planned development and future on rail and InterCity must be maintained. Postponing individual sections for several years makes it difficult to achieve national climate targets and challenges Oslo in particular. Oslopackak 3 is challenged in economics. Changing and expanding infrastructure in existing buildings is demanding. Therefore, it is essential to be able to prioritise between the targets on revenues, traffic reduction, the share of zero-emission vehicles and socio-economic profitability, to have significant flexibility in fares in the longer term. It is also essential that one has control over the economy with strict portfolio management. We record that the Progress Party on Stortinget again has a different view of toll issues than its own in government. That question will be left to the citizens to decide by a referendum by the representatives of the Progress Party. This can only be called double communication. We in the Workers' Party will repeat what we have proposed both in the treatment of NTP and in our alternative budget for 2018: The state must take a greater share of the investment costs of large collective investment. That is why we are also proposing today that «The government begs the Government to contribute 70 pst. State financing of the collective projects in Oslopackak 3». I'm bringing up this proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1423	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1428	Now we've put behind us some wonderful weeks. Every day the sun has shined from a clear, crystal-blue sky. It's been a great start in the summer, and I think most of us look optimistic that the rest of the summer will be just as good. But not everyone has reason to be an optimist, not everyone has reason to smile. For the drivers do not shine the sun, nor are dark and gloomy clouds threatening the horizon. Today we are going to adopt the so-called Oslopackak 3. It's the package that is absolutely not a package, a package that at least not the people most, and not the drivers, want it. Oslopackak 3 is the stowage of tolls. This is where the drivers really need to be skinned. It's not enough to increase the rates, it's going to set up a whole 53 new toll stations, and you don't just have to pay tolls when you drive into Oslo, you also have to pay when you drive out. It's almost that you can wonder if this is a move-in measure, so that the farmers from Hedmark won't go home again. This is extremely extreme, and I hardly have a word to express how unfair this is to the drivers. But Oslopackakt 3 really has the impression that the Workers' Party has given the Environmental Party the Green Free Rules to plague the drivers as much as they like, as much as they can, and as much as they can. It is no secret that the Progress Party does not want to be bombed, nor is it a secret that we do not want to be bombed like Oslopackak 3. But we have respect for local democracy and not least for our partners in government. Locally, there is a strong desire to introduce Oslopackak 3. All lots, except for the Advance Party, are for. Our government partners also want Oslopackak 3. Consequently, there is a large majority for all these new toll stations in and around Oslo, and it must be the Progress Party as a serious and credible partner. And it has absolutely nothing to do with double communication. But there are some small points of light. Although we can't stop these toll stations, at least we've had the advantage of introducing 20 pst. Discount for bombers. The Progress Party will also have a referendum on Oslopackak 3. All these new toll stations will have such serious and dramatic consequences for the wallet and everyday life for most people that the people should have their opinion so absolutely through a referendum. I encourage the other parties in this room, which are also locally represented, to support the referendum. If they think this is something people really want, as you can get the impression, they have nothing to fear by letting the people decide. The Progress Party has also proposed that urban packages should require a proportionality between what the drivers pay for and what they get back in terms of better, safer and safer roads and increased accessibility. That point is very important, because in Oslopackakt3, it's actually only 15 pst. of the tolls to be taken from the driving lists to be used on the driving lists. With much more booms and two-way collection, the bomb load becomes unreasonably high. It will particularly affect families with children who have to drive a lot of cars. The Progress Party considers that the bomb load and the pass-by roof need to be significantly reduced. If the objective is for more people to choose from public transport, it is necessary to focus on making public transport more customer-oriented and better rather than making everyday life hopeless for all those who drive cars, all those who depend on driving cars. That's what it's called getting the politicians you deserve, and for Oslo, it's the people who voted for parties that want tolls. But the tolls are just a small part of the red-green tax package that has been introduced in Oslo, including. property taxes and increased municipal taxes. At the same time, care for the elderly is being built down, the nursing home is being closed down, and the elderly are being thrown into uncertainty. So I'm very glad that there's a new election soon, and that hopefully we can get a new regime in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1453	As an opposition politician, I could almost only say: Listen to the previous speaker! Oslopackak 3 is presented by the State Council of the Progress Party and is a proposal for the location of new toll stations and tariffs for Oslopackak 3, step 2. The revised Oslopack 3 agreement suggests that today’s toll stations, which have only been required by one road, will now receive two-way collection. In addition, a new toll section shall be established involving a number of new toll stations and toll sections in Oslo. So the new system should be put into operation from 1 March 2019, and there is little doubt that this will give much distinction to the action in Oslo, but at the same time it will also cost a lot of distinction for those who need the freedom that the private car provides. Kinderfamilies who are going to deliver in kindergarten and then get to work often need more flexibility in a hectic everyday life. This can be expensive. It's not the first time we've discussed Oslopaket in Stortinget. Last year we were dealing with NTP, and I want to remind you what the Center Party said that time. The centre party went in to offset some of the contained road projects. Several of the projects on the way will cost a lot and will hardly give you any increase in capacity. Had a boost on some of the projects then, one might also have reduced the toll collection now. I also noticed that it's only 15 pst. of the funds in Oslopakak to be used for roadside purposes, while 72 pst. goes to collective action. Thus, there is a strong subsidisation from the Billistan side of those who use trams, tracks and buses. These are means that come in addition to what the municipality of Oslo and Akershus County get to these measures through framework grants to the municipality and county municipality. The idea behind the framework proposal is that it should cover the operation of collective services, and many municipalities have no other means than the framework to use for these purposes. In addition, the State is financing both the development and operation of the railways, where there have been particularly large projects here in the central Austland area. The sum of this and the consequences of it should make us ask ourselves whether the heads of society are being distributed fairly, or whether there is a large distribution of bias that Oslo comes out especially well. At least it's a good example that centralization costs. Some parties also propose to increase the State contribution to the urban package arrangements to 70 pst. The Center Party will be strongly warned against that. We would rather invite these parties to use the distinctions to increase the frame rate of the county councils, so that everyone can participate in increased divorce use for transportation. The centre party is going to support the setting, as there is a wide local resolution on the solutions, but I note that the Progress Party in its comment is taking up a referendum on the issue of toll cases. It is tempting to hear whether the Council of State also shares this assessment. After all, it was interesting to hear the representative Johnsen, on behalf of the government party, go so strongly with the proposition made by the government council.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1470	SV is very positive to the development of the transport sector in Oslo and believes that Oslo has now become in many ways an ever-small exhibition window for large parts of the country, at least for large cities. We see how it invests in public transport systems, and we see it bet on walking and cycling over car-based measures. It'll be exciting to see how it goes two years further in the capital. It's probably a bit like the introduction of the smoking law, and it might also happen that representatives of Johnsen's type will see that four years of such good environmental action in the city is bearing fruit. I also believe that representatives of Johnsen's type would have had a fake, for example. Lower Castle Street and Upper Castle Street full of car traffic again. I'm very much in doubt about it. It is an explicit objective of the agreement to reduce car traffic by 15 pst. during 2019. If this is not met, the toll tariffs shall be renegotiated. Against this background, the parties to the agreement realistically consider a reduction in car traffic of 15 pst. through the 2019 section of the bombardments, the objective of the agreement is to be taken into account. This objective shall be reported in the annual roll-outs of the Oslopacket 3 action programme. If it is demonstrated through the annual reports that the objective is not met, renegotiations of the system will be opened if requested by the parties. In this respect, I refer to the ongoing work on harmonising the Road Traffic Act and the Road Code relating to the use of tolls for traffic management. Modifications to the toll tariffs shall be subject to agreement between the parties and shall be submitted to the Size Scale for approval. I think it might be a little strange that this is not mentioned in the proposition, but I assume that the government is dealing with the agreement as it stands. In this respect, I would also like to stress the importance of introducing the amendments on 1 March 2019 as agreed, and not later, as I believe was the case for Oslopackak 3 step 1. Then to the agreement on the E18 West Corridor in the proposition. On several occasions in the hall, I have been clear that I have been in line with the Oslo City Council by going against the development of E18 in addition to the Lysaker-Beach section. This expansion of the West Corridor is both against clear research that shows that private car and the queue problem are not addressed by such measures, and terrible environmental policies. Finally, there is a terrible use of society’s resources and a clear example of the fact that the bulk of population never manages to give priority to road development. No matter where the committee has gone, and no matter who has come to visit us in the committee, there has been a unison complaint in the billions of years to maintain county roads, there has been a complaint about the obligation to maintain tunnels, and about the lack of means of racial and scaffolding – just to mention something. But the majority in the hall almost never dares to say no to any of the major motorway projects. The show must go on – just like before. SV believes it is critical that the Stortinget in NTP decided to complete the E18 when the local agreement on Oslopackak 3 required only the Lysaker-Beach section to be agreed on. At least that's how I understood it. The rest of the distance has to be scaled down in terms of costs and so that the physical road capacity does not increase, if you want to follow the local policy decisions in this case, and I think we should. If the government followed the local policy decisions in this case and did not plan to expand beyond Lysaker-Beach, it would release funds for other collective projects that could benefit the population of Oslo, and of course also the environment. It is on this background that SV has promoted a separate proposal, which I can quote: ‘The government asks the Government to stop all plans for the expansion of the E18 West corridor beyond Lysaker-Beach, for which there is a local political agreement.’ I shall therefore deal with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1486	Then the representative Arne Nävra has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1491	Oslopackak 3 should be praised, not just because action is taken in Oslo; my experience with the Oslopackak and the measures taken in Oslo with both traffic development and public transport actually encourages many cities and agglomerations around the country to do the same. I come from Trondheim myself, and it was the Oslo package that was the model when we made the environmental package in Trondheim. They're not the same. They're different. We have payment both in and out of Trondheim, while it has only been into Oslo, for example. There has been cow pricing in Trondheim, there has been no rush time charge in Oslo. It is now to be introduced. But it's local. There are local decisions in the respective city councils and also, of course, negotiations with other parties, which have led to the different measures and, finally, to the proposition presented to the Stortinget by the Council of State. I am particularly pleased that the Ministry of Transport does not make such major changes to these local proposals that have come, either in Oslo or in the other cities. So over to what's very specific for Oslo. Oslopack 3 and the introduction of toll systems feel like I'm starting to look like road pricing. I think it's a good solution with differentiation, so the diesel cars pay the most and the petrol cars a little less. Electric cars have to pay for the first time, yes, but there are small amounts in relation to the other – and note that hydrogen cars should remain free of charge. It can actually be a clue that hydrogen will be a good source of energy for our transport systems in the future, when we use carrots like we are now doing for hydrogen cars in the Oslo package. Measures involving 50/50 projects, including: for the Fornebubanen, I mean left and I really are on time, but not least it is very good that it is now being implemented. I hope that there are no major cost increases in the project, but that it can be implemented. I think it's a very important way out to Fornebu. It makes Fornebu attractive, but not least more people can choose to take their work trip by road instead of by car, like today. So when these percentages and who gets the most, it's a transport package – the Oslo package is a transport package. You help each other by collecting money from the drivers, and then you get a lot of people to use public transport – many to go and ride. The introduction of a rush-time charge suggests that it will be easier for those who actually have to use the car. SV criticises a lot of road use at all, but it should be clear that there are many road safety measures that come with the E18 development. There are many noise measures. Local pollution is limited. And when it comes to business traffic, it becomes a completely different experience and savings – it becomes much more effective when you can do it the way it's put up in Oslopackak 3. Oslopackak 3 believes that I can quickly be a success for the residents and something that we who are visiting the city would very much appreciate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1504	Oslopackak 3 has been negotiated locally, and there is local agreement on portfolio and funding. When I hear the debate here today, I also feel that there is no major disagreement about the projects, with the exception of the E18. Then we have a debate on tolls. Of course, it's a paradox that the Progress Party says different things and thinks a little different here and there, but we've been talking about a lot of times in this room lately, so I'll leave it down now. The Christian People's Party supports the government's proposal. There are several good projects in the package, so agreement on portfolio and funding has been reached. At the same time, I want to add, and I say this in respect of the local political processes, that there is generally reason to look at the total toll burden. This applies especially to Oslo, but it can also apply to several areas in our country. The Christian People's Party is for user payment on the way. It is more important for us to say yes to new roads and yes to tolls than to say no to new roads and no tolls. We stand by that. User payments are a natural part of the funding base for new road projects where there is a local desire to do so. At the same time, we believe that the toll load can clearly reach a pain limit. That is why the Christian People's Party has made a strong contribution to increasing the appropriations for road and transport in recent years, and that effort will continue. It makes sense to take out part of the toll potential that exists, provided that there is local political will to do so. However, in order to maintain the user payment, it is important not to experience the scheme unfairly or very unfairly, including: with regard to geography. In some areas, there are trends in the retention of high-priced toll stations, which may be particularly stressful for some particularly vulnerable groups. It would therefore make sense to look closely at the whole of the user payment system, precisely for the purpose of ensuring the most robust and sustainable system in the future. The total toll burden for road users in an area should also be assessed in the local processes. In particular, it is important that road users experience a good relationship between payment and use. I therefore understand the criticism that is being addressed to the Oslo package when it comes to this particular point. We accept the agreement negotiated in the Oslo package, but at the same time the agreement illustrates the need to think again. The solution is not to introduce 100 pst. State funding. We spend more government money on the road than ever before. The Christian People's Party has been involved in negotiating the most ambitious transport plan in Norway. In addition, NTP has a base of 131 billion. kroner in tolls, and there's a lot. We have done that because in the projects where it is desired, it has been decided locally. And we do it because it contributes to an even more way – in addition to what the state already grants. So, in total, we're going to spend over 1,000 billion. kr for transportation during the planned period, and more than half going on. With 100 pst. State funding must have spent 131 million on the Community. Extra kroner. We have the choice between saying yes to more roads and tolls and saying no to other purposes, such as health, defence, school, etc. We're going to have user payments, but we should renew ourselves. We should take it very seriously, for example. Advanced road pricing can be a more forward-looking system than the current tolling system. Evolution goes in that direction. Today's toll stations will, in my opinion, appear to be old-fashioned and out of date in a few years' time. I think we should just as well get used to the idea that there are other and more fair ways to organise user payments than today's toll system. Road pricing can, in our opinion, be a good and forward-looking system, and I'm sure we'll come back to this in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1528	In the clear light of the postwar clock, it becomes clear: it is simply incredible, what many politicians have believed and what many still do. For many years, many politicians thought that it was smart to bet on the least land efficient means of transport in those areas where there is the most struggle for land. They thought that people would get more mobility in the city because people would roll tight, rolling on 2 tons of exhaust-oxidating steel in narrow city streets. They thought that a city with a square metre price of hundreds of thousands of dollars has an infinite amount of space, which is completely free of charge at its disposal to store 12 m 2 of cars on the street level – all day! They refused to realize that they were trapped in a pattern of thought from the 1950s. And still some of them believe that Oslo should be filled with cars – because Norway is a long-distance country. They refuse to realize that a car is smart where there is a lot of space and a lot of space between people, but very stupid where there is little space and tension between people. Thankfully, these peoples are getting fewer and fewer, thanks to good results and the clear light of the postwar clock. The matter is settled. It's sunny. In the case we are debating today, these car romantics from the 1900s are in a solid minority. We in the Greens are pleased that there is a broad political majority in the United Kingdom today who join the main features of the policy we have been negotiating as an urban council party in Oslo. It is a victory for us, a victory for the Oslo region and a victory for us with joy with the Right, the Labour Party, the Left and the SV, all of which have contributed in different ways. In fact, we are now witnessing some kind of transport policy spring solution in the Oslo region. The car plug's loosened. Finally, the major collective investments that are crucial for the future functioning of the Oslo region are being taken into account. Not least a new T-Bahn tunnel and the Fornebuban. The new Oslo Package 3 will total 50 billion. fresh crowns for collective and bicycle projects. These new tolls will also improve the air quality, speed up the car fleet and reduce car traffic in the narrow streets of the city. This will give us more space for environmentally friendly transport, more travel and better mobility. Less car traffic will also mean safer school roads and neighborhoods all over the city. Unfortunately, Oslo’s transport policy spring solution has not yet been secured in the Ministry of Transport. Although the Stortinget today adopts a good policy for reduced car traffic here today, the government continues to – incomprehensiblely – plan to build a gigantic road towards the city, which will increase traffic instead. The state Road Administration itself has said that this government's plans to extend the E18 West corridor are contrary to the Oslopacket 3 agreement, but the plans are also contrary to the government's own goal of taking traffic growth with collective, bicycle and gangways. And as if there weren't enough confusion: this new road is to be partly financed by a toll shock that makes even MDGs turn gray-white in their faces, while the toll opponents traditionally, the Progress Party, obviously, it's okay – except for the representative Johnsen, then, who in his speech shamelessly pushes the children's families in front of him. The Green Party therefore fully supports the SV's proposal to stop the E18 extension, and we support the SV and the Workers' Party's proposal to use the money to increase the country's share of collective investment, so that the Aarhus and the Rome Railway can also be put in place. The time for the 20th century's car romantics is beyond recall.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1546	It is important to develop a good transport infrastructure, both in cities and in the countryside. It's about making sure that people get where they're going, in a simple and good way, with the lowest possible cost and minimum possible time use, but also to the least possible embarrassment and burden for neighbors in terms of noise, pollution, and so on. We need to ensure road safety and invest in order to increase mobility and flexibility. There is a basis for government policy, even though some opposition politicians in Stortinget refuse to take it up. When we see the bet that happens, for example. on rail on and around the East, it is a sign that you think so. That we give people who are going the same way, a good offer, so that they can travel together in an efficient and good way, we see the results of. The record growth now in the number of bus and train journeys is due to the fact that the majority of today wanted to give priority to it. We're going to be so blush and say that there's also been a bet from the previous government, that we're based on the top of. It's not that some of us think we're still living in the 1950s, and that car is the only solution. I wish the Greens came into the real world when it comes to discussing solutions. The bet shown in Oslopackakt 3 is important. Therefore, the government has presented this proposition based on the negotiations that have been local. But the solutions we have chosen are local. FrPs can poke away at me and point out a lot of tolls here. Yes, if the Progress Party had run alone in Oslo and in government, these tolls had not been there. And then we would have funded it in a different way. What is presented is based on compromise between many different parties at different levels, and then it is up to the Storting to adopt and support local initiatives. The government does not go in and change and overrides local decisions. Nevertheless, I think that local politicians should take note that more parties in the Stortinget now, in addition to the Advance Party, are warning against the level of tolls that are now taking place in the Oslo area. I also think it is interesting that even the Green Party warns against tolls, although only if the tolls are used to build roads. In the Oslo ring wants a more toll, but not on the road, and thus frustrates the argument. Several important projects shall be financed. The state now enters and takes half of the bill, is involved and contributes to the level of tolls being lower than it would otherwise be. We remember that when the Løren track was built, under the previous city council, it was 100 pst. Locally funded. If one had the same method of financing now, it would mean a much higher level of toll than the case, and that would be the positive side of being able to limit growth, even though the local politicians in Oslo want to praise car use so much that it goes beyond the everyday life of some people. We're working in parallel to negotiating an urban currency with the largest cities. A urban environment agreement has been signed with an area part of Oslo that ensures that when an infrastructure is built, there are also congestions around the collective nodes. That's an important part of the job. Then it is also worth stressing and reminding red-green politicians, especially the Greens, that in the period 2007–2014 there was a reduction in car use through the bombing in Oslo. So it's not only now that you've found out that it's nice to have cars where there are a lot of people – it has a certain length of time. There has also been a sharp increase in public transport use between 2007 and 2014. It is also a good thing to note that when the Red-Green City Council in Oslo has set ambitious climate targets, they were so ambitious that they were fulfilled already under the bourgeois city council, and it puts things in perspective. It is important that we build different types of infrastructure that are adapted to the needs of people. That's why it's important to build good bike paths, good collective tracks, good railways, good T-road solutions and good road solutions. The bus has to come forward, too. The cows on the E18 West Corridor do not benefit either those who drive there or those who live along it. To the logic some say that the E18 West Corridor is unnecessary, I point to the E18 Operator Tunnel. I don't think either of us today would say no to that project when we see what it's done for the Oslo Centre. Similarly, we should avoid Asker and Bærum and all those who live along a much more crowded road, and where the main focus is on bus, public transport, corridors and bicycles – a better overall road structure. We would like to welcome the efforts that are being made. Then we can disagree on how we finance it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1563	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1568	The Workers' Party agrees with the Christian People's Party that road pricing is a new way of looking at things. The toll burden in some regions may be too high and unfair, but around Oslo the toll shall be more than the road construction charge: they shall limit road traffic. But then there should also be well-organised collective services. Today, the cars in Oslo are jammed – one does not show up. That's why tolls have an effect. How does the Council of State view this claim?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1575	I have chosen to reduce the toll burden in Oslo and elsewhere. There's no connection between the high level that the Oslo City Council now wants to have, and the transport needs that people have. When I drive my children on a handball tournament on a Sunday, it takes me approx. 20 minutes to drive through Oslo, but I have to pay tolls twice. If I took a T-Bahn or a bus, as the Oslo City Council believes I should, I would have used approx. two hours more on the trip. When we are concerned that children in some classes cannot afford to go to a birthday party because they are expected to have a gift of 100–150 kroner, we just need to see what this toll barrier means for the social inclusion of some families, if the handball – or football or what it should be – requires activity a few times a week. Building up good infrastructure and good collective services does not mean that an automatic toll rate has to be set up, but we see that today's government has ensured that Oslo now has much more capital to invest in infrastructure, even without having increased its toll rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1584	My question is then, in the follow-up to it: what if there had not been tolls? In Trondheim, there is a clear difference in the availability of those who really need transport. They're not in line the same way. The same is true in Oslo. What is the alternative to tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1589	That's what I think was a little creative question, because the alternative is increased public funding. It is at least an obvious solution on the part of the Progress Party and the Government. That's why we've contributed by the fact that the state is now in 50 pst. of the financing of the major packages, where Labour Party politicians in Bergen would point out that they received between 5 and 15 pst. under the previous government. Local contributions are also a priority. If the goal is, as it is for the Oslo City Council, that it should be so expensive to drive a car that people choose to stop doing it because of the price level, high bomb tariffs are obviously a goal. If, on the other hand, the objective is different, that it will be pure funding, but there is no need to punish the drivers, I think many would say that a lower rate would be an approach to that. This is a bit of a political debate: how do we use the common money we have? Are we ever going to increase the fees through tolls, for example, or are we going to spend money that we have over public budgets, differently? The government has helped to reduce toll tariffs in many places, against the Labour Party votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1598	I think the Council of State may have misunderstood or deliberately not answered the question entirely from the representative of Leirtrø. She asked how the Council of State might expect to bring down traffic if you don't use tolls as a means. That was her question. I also wonder: if the Council of State does not want to use tolls as a means of getting money into the treasury, he will probably take it over the tax bill. But with the profile that his finance minister puts on, and that the government stands for, it's like giving tax relief to a few, while the many almost get nothing. It would be quite unsocial – I think on the basis of social taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1603	I wonder how the discussions are at internal SV meetings when we hear how the error information thrives in Stortinget. In fact.no has even shown that an average Norwegian family now gets approx. 10 000 kroner less in taxes and taxes than they did when the red-greens sat in government. It shows that part of the tax relief has come to ordinary people. Much of what others have come to business to join and create jobs. We have also proposed by the government to reduce the fees, but the fees have increased by way of a wholesale settlement. We have proposed to reduce tolls, but Stortinget has stopped us. Ergo is the difference between what is finally adopted and what is the policy of the individual parties. But in sum, there is no doubt that families have come out better now than what they had done about the previous government policy had been continued. Then it's about strengthening public transport and strengthening the route and cycle routes. It is actually possible to achieve through priorities in the budget and not always increase funding with tolls, although I know there is a political disagreement with SV right there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1610	I thank you for the answer, but I am convinced that the Council of State knows the empirical data we have – that is, the knowledge we can build on up to now, and also from the research that has been done – that we never go beyond tolls to control people's behaviours related to the formation of traffic in cities. I am convinced that the Council of State has that knowledge, and then the question is: What means will the Council of State use – as well as possibly better conditions for public transport, which, in the majority of cases, will normally be financed by tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1615	I don't want to wonder what to do if one increases tolls or demands tolls; I'd rather tell you what we're already doing. We have greatly increased the investment on the railways by increasing the appropriations for the State budget. It means increased capacity, so that more people can travel by rail in and out of the big cities. We have increased the allocation of the state budget to build better roads, and we are putting in place major reforms to reduce the cost of building roads. It has been opposed by SV and the opposition, but New Roads and the reforms in Vegvesen show that it is beneficial. We have doubled the appropriations for building bicycle routes, without increasing the tolls for that reason. It's all about giving people a travel option. There are very few of us who are willing to spend two hours extra travel time with our children to take them to a handball game instead of driving them in a car. Increasing the toll in the belief that it's going to make the world a better place is going to exclude those who don't have such a good economy, and it's one side of this issue that SV unfortunately rarely participates in and debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1621	I hear the Council of State here telling me how much he should respect local politicians and cooperate with them. But it is a fact that the State Road Service – under the Department – itself writes in a letter that a continuous expansion of the first parcel on the E18, from Lysaker to Ramstadsletta, is contrary to the agreement on Oslopakket 3. Then my question is: what does the Council of State really mean by respecting local politicians, when, at the same time – through the State Road Administration and the Ministry – he goes in to extend the E18 West Corridor into Oslo? Is that how you respect locally concluded agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1626	This is a discussion that has been between the Progress Party and the Green Party since the conclusion of the agreement. What's in the Oslopack 3 agreement is that you have to build the entire West Corridor. That's the introduction to that chapter. Then we've said that the first parcel should be Lysaker Beach. We have also said that it should be a goal to keep costs down, and then we have said that to keep costs down, it is good if one follows up with another department immediately, because then you release part of the temporary, expensive solutions, like building a tunnel halfway, which you then fill up again. That is why we have said that we are both building the first part, which is explicitly stated in the agreement that we should do, and is accelerating the second part, which is not contrary to the agreement. But of course – any attempt to train it is important on the part of the Green Party, which does not want the road at all. But overall, the agreement says that the entire route should be built, and that is what we are about to realize.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1631	It is amazing to hear the Council of State talking about cutting costs, when estimates show that driving a truck from Asker to Oslo and back will rise in tolls of more than 550 kroner tolls–return. Is that what the Council of State thinks about cutting costs and keeping costs down?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1636	I think everyone in this Chamber knows that I want to fight for the lowest possible toll rates, while the Green Party in the Oslo City Council has fought for the highest possible toll rate. After all, the Green Party went out and said that they would have a higher tariff level than what was finally agreed. It's a little strange to be challenged by a party that wants to have tolls, that I can't get them lower, when you're fighting against the cuts. The west corridor is an important infrastructure project, it is not a 16-field motorway project, which the Oslo City Council has tried on several occasions to give an impression of. There are three fields in each direction, i.e. six fields in total. Most of this is about moving traffic away from where people live and work. It's about making sure that one gets the same effect that one has got at the Oslo Centre by getting the traffic away from the Opera and underground. It allows you to develop a new city in the capital, and I don't think anyone will regret it. The same thing can now be achieved in Bærum and Asker by moving the traffic away from where people live, and getting a better local environment instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1643	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1650	I get a little startled when I hear the Senter party and others start complaining about how much toll there is in Oslo – that there is too much, and that you should have the money elsewhere. I talked about an ÅDT of 600 000 cars through the bombing. I wonder what investments you had to make in and out of Oslo, and how it would burden the districts, if it had been done in a different way than through the system you now have. In fact, we look at public transport as a kind of road development, capacity building, which also reduces the need for road investment in the current phase. So a little bit to Johnsen: yes, there are several toll stations, but as I said in my post, that means that more people are going to pay. We did a study in 2012, and then it was 27 pst. of the drivers who paid tolls that benefited from the measures we took on the roadside in Akershus. We had a wide range of projects outside Oslo that were funded with tolls from the Ring. By expanding the number of toll stations, it is divided into a much larger number. It means less payment for each one. There should be hourly leave, which means that one doesn't pay in all the bomb sections. When one says we're going to divide, we're going to have both collection and collection, the proposition says that we're going to halve the price, so driving back and forth costs the exact same thing as it costs to drive one way today. You drive back today for free. Now you have to pay the exact same thing. It's not that this in itself will contribute to a fantastic increase in the bombings in Oslo and Akershus. What matters is the cost you might put on this system afterwards. So you're essentially differentiating environmentally and with rush time. I've been against that before, but now I'm for, I kept saying. The way this is done, has its purpose. The Workers' Party was concerned with the fact that we do not build InterCity, and that this is a problem for Oslo. There is no problem for Oslo at all, because InterCity is built in Akershus. With the Follo tunnel and the Eidsvolls connection, Akershus is finished. What remains, and is important, is the Oslo Tunnel, and it is actually accelerated by this government in the National Transport Plan for 2018-2029. It wasn't there. In the case of E18, I know all about what they mean there, but I think it might be a point that we through the tolling system have managed to develop the road system in our region. Akershus was the driver to solve some of the major road projects. Now we can solve it. The E18 project was taken out of Oslopackak 3 so it would not be there as a workshop.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1665	To the government council and the little line change we had: yes, flat fees – tolls like that – are unsocial, and SV has it in the back of the head. I promise the Council of State. But then we return to our tax profile. That's how we think. We return to low-income groups and children's families. The reason why we're going in for these bombs, of course, is that it works. It works on the traffic scene, we get the traffic down, we can control the behavior of the big team of people. That's how we have to think. We have to use all the tools we have, and tolls are one of the means – not just because it's supposed to be a whip, it's also the way money comes in for collective bets. I guess that's that simple. So to the post of the representative Tor André Johnsen, I can't quite ignore it in silence: Dark clouds for the drivers – yes, I'm a driver myself, I have to say to the representative Johnsen. But I pay with joy my tolls. I can even drive inside the city with a sticker on my car where it says: Car-free city. I mean, I'm going to get a click, a little punishment for it – and I'm going to pay it with joy. We have to make public transport better, more attractive and provide better service, was the real message to the representative Johnsen, instead of punishing people – then the private car driver – with bombs. Then the question is, what does it help to give the buses better seats, better suspension or – we'll say – lower prices, if the bus doesn't show up? It's probably a natural question to the representative Johnsen, I think. So what does that help? I'd like to hear that answer. So I sincerely hope that the representative Johnsen shares his contributions here today on social media, so that I get the pleasure of sharing it on – perhaps with a few small comments about irresponsibility and a little about what you think about climate, urban air, etc. But it's a call to the representative Johnsen to share the first article on social media.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1684	Now, when I take the floor, it is because when we come to such toll debates, there are often accusations from several parties – especially from the opposition – that the Progress Party operates with double communication. No, we don't. In the government negotiations, the party of progress has not gained its primary position, as other parties have. Often it's the parties that criticize the Progress Party and try to insinuate people that we're doing double communications, which are the ones that are for tolls. It's a little special that you ask for a policy that you don't want. The progress party has had a very straightforward and truthful communication. In both Oslo and Akershus, the Progress Party has voted against this. The Storting Group is in agreement and says that if you want a referendum in Oslo and Akershus, we think that's a good idea. So let's say that. It's not double communication – it's pure hair. And yes, the Progress Party relates to agreements we have entered into in the government. There's no doubt about it. So it's a very good communication. Those who do double communications can be the Center Party, who voted in Akershus, as far as I know, and then you stand here in the Storting and say that these bombings are bad. In the case of the Workers' Party and Proposal No. 2 in the case, from SV, where the government is asked to stop all plans to expand the E18 West corridor beyond Lysaker–Beach, Raymond Johansen was also very eager and thought that the government had to stop it. But here in Stortinget the Labour Party has obviously elected the government and elected its own party in Oslo, with Raymond Johansen at the head. This means that the Labour Party in Stortinget supports the government and turns its back on Raymond Johansen. We appreciate that, but that's what double communication is. Let this be clear: the party of progress thinks this is violent. And yes, we know that so to say all the parties in Oslo and Akershus have wanted this. And yes, the Progress Party has come to realize that there are many actions and protests. And yes, we think maybe you should have listened more to the people, but that's a conscious choice you make locally. And then you see what happens at the next local election.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1697	My colleague, Stordalen, just had a good briefing on facts and how the Progress Party votes, but I would like to comment a little on the Christian People's Party, which had some comments on the Progress Party and tolls. Now the representative Gruvan has gone, I see, but there's no paradox, as Gruvan claims, and it's not that we mean different things here and there, as he claims. The advance party is and will be against tolls. Locally, we always vote against, but in government – as I said in my post – we are part of a committed cooperation with the Left, Right and indirectly with the Christian People's Party, and then we must be a credible partner, which I also pointed out clearly in my post instead. The party of progress is actually the only party that does not want to pay tolls, and that we then cooperate and have a good and credible process, have a good dialogue and are a serious partner, I think that both the Right and the Left and even the Christian People's Party really appreciate it. Road pricing is a number of things that have been discussed. It was probably the Christian People's Party that started with it, and the Workers' Party followed it up. In this area, the Progress Party is crystal clear: No, it's expensive enough to drive a car today, and it's more than enough surveillance as it is today. Then inserting a monitor – GPS or whatever it may be – into all cars, so that you can always monitor where and when you are driving, and have to pay depending on how far you are driving, we seem to be completely wrong. It is expensive enough to drive a car today, and the drivers should not be a dairy cow. I react a little to that rhetoric that you have to take income from the drivers all the time. The drivers have to pay for what they get – that is right – but they do not have to be a permanent dairy cow to finance all possible other projects. It's going to be wrong. It is also wrong to have a permanent monitoring, which allows you to follow all cars everywhere, and to know at any time where everyone is driving. In the case of the Greens, I was actually given confirmation of what I said in my post. It is clear that the Workers' Party has given them free ropes. It was very special to listen to the representative Stoknes. I wonder if he has actually been around other capitals when he claims that there are so many traffic and car problems in Oslo. Compared to any other capital in the world, there are few cars and traffic problems in Oslo. That is an objective fact. The attitude of the Greens towards families with children is surprisingly disrespectful. After all, they'll drive and pick up school, kindergarten and pick up here and there. Then you depend on driving a car. To the representative Nävra from SV: It is nice that he pays tolls with joy, but SV is probably not exactly representative of people most, at least not the representative Nävra. When it comes to the bus coming in, we're in complete agreement. That's why there's going to be a separate bus field on the new E18 as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1714	I was touched by the representative Johnsen's first post today. I have noticed that there have not been very many who have taken hold of his wish for a referendum in this matter. But I can't avoid seeing this case and this demand for a referendum on tolls, up against the referendum that has just been in Finnmark. As I have interpreted the government, the Progress Party in the government has not intended to listen to referendums. In Finnmark it was quite clear: Nine out of ten Finnmarkings were against the merger. That was 58 pst. participation, and 87 pst. voted against. I am now going to wait for the Progress Party, like the representatives of Johnsen and Stordalen, who are the only ones who have mentioned referendums, to take the consequences of what they are saying here today about referendums. I expect them to take the initiative to dissolve the county merger of Troms and Finnmark. It cannot be the case that the Progress Party operates with double communication on both tolls and referenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1720	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox It summons the alternate of Akershu County, Liv Gustavsen, taking no seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1741	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1750	It has been a pleasure to be the case spokesman for this toll bill, for the E16 section of the Eggemoen-Jevnaker-Olum in Buskerud and Uppland. This is a matter I know well from my former political work in Uppland County. There has been a great deal of commitment and meeting activity with the municipalities and county councils involved to find solutions that could ensure the fastest possible development and a toll solution that would not lead to an unreasonably high tax on the local population. There are also a number of additional rounds to go on, but there is now an adjustment to decisions to keep both targets: to start the development process and to ensure that the burden on the local population does not become unreasonably high. There are also some concerns. In particular, the Olum bombing position can become an unreasonably high load for some of the people who live in this area. Nevertheless, within this toll proposition, there shall be room for some exceptions or adjustments to be made for some who live in such a way as to be very untimely because of the location of the toll section. The section we are currently dealing with is part of the east–west link E16 Bergen–Gävle. The road serves both as a local road and as a main road link between Gardermoen/Oslo North and Buskerud, connecting to both the South and the West. This is an important outer ring road bet north of Oslo, which will be able to relieve the overburdened road system through Oslo, which we also talk about in the previous case. At the same time, the development project will also ensure that transit traffic is conducted outside the Jevnaker Centre and the neighbouring residential areas. In addition, walking and cycling conditions are improved. The aim of the development is to achieve a satisfactory standard with regard to both road safety, the environment and traffic management. Funding is based on government funds and tolls. A plant start-up is planned during the current year and the project is expected to open up for traffic in 2021. Work on the local road network shall be completed the following year. It's assumed that 80 million. kr of the financing pot shall benefit the existing E16. The governance frame is – estimated at 2018 price level – of SEK 2.7 billion. NOK, with a total cost framework of well 3 billion. kr. The project has been estimated to have a positive impact on the reduction of CO 2 emissions. The reduction in CO 2 emissions is calculated as much as 24 200 tonnes in the opening year 2021. Today's road is narrow and curved, with partly poor geometry and relativity. The road width varies between 6 and 7.5 metres – on parts of the E16 route the only provision for both walking, cycling and running. On the Buskerud border-Olum section, 64 injuries have occurred between 2005 and 2015. The project covers the construction of 12,5 km of two-field road, with a width of 12,5 metres and a speed limit of 90 km/h. The road is built with a mid pulley and sections with a pass-by field in one or both directions. The road will lie in a new path, with the exception of a short one when connecting to the existing one at Olum. The project will provide a high level of traffic security gains. In particular, after the completion of the new E16 and the upgrading of existing E16, there will be an entirely different experience of moving on the route. It is therefore very gratifying to propose a three-point recommendation from a Joint Committee. Now the population of Jevnaker can finally experience plant start-ups — over the course of the current year — for this long-term extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1773	This road project has been on the stairs for a long time, and there have been many local discussions about trajectory choices and not least where to find the booms. The road project will have a strong road safety improvement. From 2005 to 2015 there have been 64 personal injury accidents. Today's road is narrow and curved, and the road width varies between 6 and 7.5 metres. Getting a new road with a width of 12,5 metres with middle parts, passing-by fields and improving the conditions for the traffic and cycling will increase the availability and safety both for those living there and for those travelling through the area. It is high time to realize a long-term road project that binds west and east together. The Committee considers that this part of the E16 can be developed as an external ring for Oslo and could also help to reduce traffic congestion around and in Oslo. It will also strengthen a larger region of residence and work. The State share of the development costs is 42 pst. The other costs shall be covered by tolls based on post-clearance recovery in four sections of the Jevnaker municipality. Based on the fact that the project is to be paid down within 15 years of the opening of the traffic, it is estimated that the average income per pass must be NOK 60 for new E16 and NOK 21 for existing E16 and fv. 241. Now there is agreement both locally and regionally to the proposal in this proposition. The inhabitants can look forward to the project, including work on local roads, being completed in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1786	The right glances at the development of this part of the E16 as an external ring north of Oslo, thus contributing to the unloading of the heavily trafficked road network in the central Oslo area. The project will run the transit traffic beyond the Jevnaker centre and the neighbouring bus area. Today's road is narrow and curved with partly poor geometry and relativity. The lines include: through densely built area of the Toso school circle. On part of the distance, E16 is the only supply for walking and cycling. On the Buskerud border-Olum section, 64 accidents involving personal injury have occurred in the period 2005-2015. The proposal for a government would improve the conditions for walking and cycling. Traffic safety is important. The aim of the development is to achieve a satisfactory standard with regard to both road safety, the environment and traffic management. In addition, development can contribute to important industrial development by facilitating the integrated rural and labour market region of Ringerijk and Jevnaker. The development can also facilitate planned business development at old Eggemoen airport in Ringerijke municipality. The new route of 12.5 km will mean a significant savings on the journey time from both Valdres and Hallingdal for traffic to Gardermoen. It also becomes an option for traffic to and from Oslo. In large transport projects, good cost control is particularly important. Cost growth can hit the legs under the road and rail plans. External quality assurance of E16 Eggemoen-Jevnaker-Olum has been carried out and new information of greater relevance has not been revealed. The quality assurance is in line with the original project management base and cost calculations. At the same time, when there is local political support for the proposal contained in the proposal, it may be added to site start-ups during 2018, as the objective is in the national transport plan. For several decades, the decay of roads and roads increased, while we had too bad infrastructure. Now we have turned the decline to renewal, and since the sitting government took over, transport investment has increased by 60 pst. In the next few years, Norway will have a whole new infrastructure. Transport policy is the most powerful means of creating growth and development in the districts. We build cities and built closer together, reduce distances between people and make goods and services faster. This proposition shows that government delivers on its ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1805	Now it's a little over a year since we decided to build another major E16 project, namely Bjørum-Skaret, and today we're going to adopt an extended 12.5 km long stretch on E16 between Olum in Uppland and Eggemoen in Buskerud. Today's road on this route is too bad. The standard is definitely not in line with the importance, function and volume of traffic on the road. The road is narrow, it is curved, and the width is only 6-7,5 metres. The speed varies from down to 50 km/h to up to 80 km/h. But not enough that the road is narrow and curved, and that the speed is low, the road goes through densely built strips and through school circuits. So now it's going to be a new trajectory and a width of 12.5 meters and 90 kilometers per hour, is a very big positive change. The road serves both as a local road and as a main road link between Gardermoen/Oslo north and Buskerud. The emphasis is on developing this part of the E16 as an external ring north of Oslo, thus disbursing a heavily trafficked part of the road network. This is very good. It's important to clarify that this is a road calculation that would be perfect for building a narrow four-field road. It would be better from a long-term and societal point of view. Projection of traffic to 2022 gives an ÅDT of almost 8 000 cars per day, and it is based on a low increase in traffic at the lower edge of 1.5 pst. Experience from other road projects, such as the E16 through Akershus and E6 from Gardermoen and northwards, shows that the real increase is much greater — in fact up to three times greater — than the conservative forecasts contained in the NTP. In this project, too, it is put up to bombs on side roads. It takes a great deal of distance from the Advance Party. There is no logic in that those who do not use or need to run on the E16 will pay for a way they do not use. The reason for putting a bomb on side roads is to prevent traffic leakage. But the Progress Party points to good results, among other things. have been operating in Westfold, where lower E18-cargo rates and no side-car bombs have produced positive results without problems with traffic leakage. Lower tolls have resulted in more people using the safe new four-field motorway, so that the lateral load has been reduced. This project also uses an interest rate of 5,5 pst. to calculate the toll charges. In E16 Bjørgo–Skaret, which we adopted last April, the interest rate was set at 4,5 pst. It is significantly higher than market interest rates, but in any case it is 4,5 pst. more correct than 5.5 pst, which is added up here. The party seeking to clarify the importance of using the lowest interest rate. This will benefit the drivers in the form of lower bombing rates. It's important for the Progress Party, and that's something we've been pointing out for years. In the past, we received limited support for using lower interest rates, or market interest rates. But luckily, this has changed. As a result, the Progress Party is very pleased that an overall committee is now behind the comment that toll tariffs can be lower, based on market interest rates or the fixing of interest rates, so that the drivers can benefit. The Progress Party is also pleased that the Committee wants this, and we therefore encourage Uppland and Buskerud counties to avail themselves of this opportunity and to use market interest rates so that the rates can be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1822	This road project has a long history, which road projects very often have. The debate has gone back and forth locally on alternative routes and bombing sites. The option finally chosen is an acceptable compromise between the reduction of nature and good road clearance, where the relief of the centre of Jevnaker is an essential part. However, SV assumes that good land replacement schemes are being implemented for the affected farmers. It is a very important point for SV that we maintain cultivated land in each extension case. We've had a proposal that we're trying to live by locally, that every time cultivated land is taken, the cultivated land will be replaced in ratio 2:1, in the sense that one replaces the lost land, twice as much and that should be cultivated. Moving the soil is also very relevant in this context. SV is also particularly pleased that the low-standard road section is now becoming a much safer road. We are satisfied that it is provided with funds for upgrading the old road, not least for cycling and walking. We also assume that these funds are not allocated in such a way as to give priority to environmental roads, walking and cycling. Thus, this post will in a way be a tribute to a road cause. It's nice that we can be noticed that way too.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1831	I just get to sign out to the previous speaker that I am very happy when we agree that there are some roads that we actually need and that are to be expanded. This is a road map that needs to be repaired. It's a narrow and curved path with poor geometry, a lot of height and a lot of slope curves. Some places are just about 6 meters wide, and some places are the only offer for walking and cycling actually to go on the E16. We don't want to have that, either here or elsewhere, and so it's important that we have good progress in important road projects. I feel that there is a great wish locally for the project to be realised. We now get approximately built. 12,5 km new road with a width of 12,5 metres and a speed limit of 90 km/h. A given adjoining and passing-by area on the routes. It makes this get better. It gets better for those who drive here every day for local purposes. But not least, this is part of drawing a picture of an outer ring road around Oslo – a ring 4 about one will call it – because one sees a connection with the road investment that is now taking place on the E16 at Sandvika, and what is going to happen up against the Tyrif soil, which is being connected to this route. One gets a very good alternative route for those coming from the north and going west, or vice versa. I even had the pleasure of, a week and a half ago, cycling parts of this distance. Although this was on a Sunday with relatively little traffic, one noticed how narrow it is some places, and how it is felt as a cyclist to have heavy transport tight on it. When a bike passes through the landscape and the dents, one also sees how many neighbours who have heavily trafficked the road right by their drive-in, and likes to know where their children play, and therefore I am extra happy that this is one of the road sections that we are now getting repaired. There's a toll percentage on this project as well. But in the proposition, one has made it clear what the potential is working on interest expense, etc. to ensure that the level of tolls can be as low as possible and that the potential of reducing tariffs is considerable. What becomes the final fare level, one will come back to as it approaches the opening of the road, but I am very pleased that the Stortinge signal a flexibility, so that we can work to make the fares as low as possible, precisely to maximise the value of the road, while at the same time serving the toll loan that is being taken up. I get to congratulate everyone in the region on the fact that this project is now approaching realization, and that there is money in it to be able to start this up as early as 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1846	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1851	I want to compliment the Council of State that he rides along the road as well. Then he gets a good impression of both the soft and the hard road users. It's a very good combination when he first traveled along the whole E6 with trailers. I wanted to ask the Council of State what he thinks of a proposal that I mentioned from the pulpit, to care for cultivated land in a manner that is binding. Have the Councils considered this in the context of such expansions, which are very often at the expense of cultivated land? We see that, it's under strong pressure, and cultivated land is too many – should be, at least – sacred. How does he view a proposal for a binding rule, or a regulation, which he might be able to draw up with the Minister of Agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1858	First of all, I can sign out and say that I have soon cycled approx. 3,000 kilometers just this year, so we have a lot of asphalt exploration right now. It's not all the places that the asphalt is the same, and that's why we also have interest in maintenance. In the case of cultivated land, this government is concerned that we should reduce the degradation of cultivated land. If we look at developments in recent years, I think we have succeeded. There is a great deal of attention both in the railway sector and in the road sector, there are the two primarily, in terms of how to lay down a weak road, routes, etc. to minimise both cultivated land and real agricultural land seizures in general, i.e. grazing, etc. Making a rule about how much to replace, I think can quickly become very rigid. Having a general awareness of this that makes us both from the point of view of the transport authorities and also in good cooperation with the agricultural authorities look at where it makes sense that someone provides this kind of compensation, and where one does not give it – that we have that flexibility, I think, gives us better results for a lower price in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1866	I thank you for your answer. The point of a regulation, a rule in a way that could perhaps have been developed/developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Minister of Agriculture, of course, must be that much more attention should be paid to the development of roads. It's a factor to calculate, it's a factor one has to include in the accounts, which I think could be a big advantage. So I would like to ask again whether the Council of State cannot consider such a rule, which would in some way be included in the overall assessment when expansions in the transport sector are to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1873	If the rule is that one should have a given factor, then I'll be against it, because it takes away the flexibility. But if the representative's wish is that we should have cultivated land as an important moment, then it's already inside. I refuse to turn it into a rule thing, because it often becomes very rigid, and there often takes out the relationship between utility in the different places, costs, and so on. There are some places where you can have very great benefits of innovation, some where the loss is not as great, and being able to assess from project to project while having an overall approach is important. The size has given a clear signal to the government to care for cultivated land, etc. and reduce the degradation that has occurred. As I said, if you look at the developments that have been taking place in recent years, I think we are doing well to meet this in terms of both innovation and reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1880	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1898	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1907	It is a pleasure to be the case rapporteur for this matter. The E6 extends throughout the Trøndelag, from Dovre to Majavatn, and is not only an important main trajectory for Trøndelag, but for anyone going from south to north, or from north to south. It's essentially parallel to the Trønderbahn. And so we're going to say that this is going to be 4.2 miles to get a new standard. E6 Ranheim-Åsen can be divided into two categories and are also two different construction projects under the direction of Nye Veier. It should have been clarified both in the proposal and in the case-rapporteur's comments that the difference between the first cost estimate of 10.4 billion kroner. kr and today's 11,821 br. kr is due to the election of Nye Weier on a complete four-field road also on the Stjørdal-Åsen route. Then it's clarified from the pulpit. Now neither the Government nor the Committee shall order the Storting to adopt an exact amount, but shall adopt the conditions set out in that case. This is because the project is to be built out of New Roads, and they have received completely different leadership from the State Road Service for implementation. What is positive is that the New Roads dialogue has local and regional solutions to get the best possible solutions. One disadvantage is that Nye Veier does not have a mandate to see the link with the development of the Trønderbahnen. We should have arranged for this. It could have been a big advantage. The first part, Trondheim – Stjørdal, is today the best route on E6 through Trøndelag. Here it's already 90 km/h. But the tunnel safety regulation and the fact that the largest population growth is in this area, make this route the most socio-economic effect, based on the parameters set for its calculation. The second part, Stjørdal-Åsen, is a highly accident-affected route and, in our opinion, will have the greatest impact in terms of improved accessibility and road safety. The Labour Party has three important comments on the matter. We're worried about the high cost of tolling through Trendelag. We discussed this in the previous case, how high a toll load should be. For a passenger car, when New Veier is finished, from Berkåk to Åsen, it will cost NOK 600 for a round trip. We believe that it is now time to explore alternative solutions for tolls, in order to achieve a fairer distribution of road construction costs. This proposal was also promoted in our proposal for NTP. We have to look at a fairer and more complete road pricing. Then the Workers' Party is concerned about the emergence during the development period. The teams agreed on electrification of the Trunder Railway with new train sets, so that the capacity, which has been blasted today, can be improved – and the emergence as well. This was also the case in the 2013 NTP. Now we're concerned that it seems that the development of the Trunder Railway is cancelled, or at best suspended, by today's government. Nor is it possible to imagine afterwards that bumping, slow and full trains can compete with a four-field motorway, and climate targets and objectives of the environmental package Trondheim are being challenged in particular. The last point is the high guarantee sum with which the county has to pay for its roads. We have discussed this in the past, in a document eight proposal, and we believe it is important that the government looks at this change as soon as possible. I then explained the comments made by the Labour Party on the matter. With this, trombone layers get a fabulous 42 kilometers of four-field highway, and New Veier does a formidable job in Trøndelag. I would recommend the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1930	Thank you to the rapporteur and the Committee for a good cooperation in the examination of this toll proposal. This is an important road project for Trøndelag. The development of E6 north of Trondheim is important both for the development of the housing and labour markets, for better accessibility and for increased road safety. The project was initially planned as a four-field road from Ranheim to Værnes at 90 km/h, and two- and three-field road on Whitehammar-Åsen. This is part of Nye Veier’s portfolio, and after a closer review, the company recommends that four-field roads be built throughout the Ranheim–Åsen route at a speed limit of 110 km/h. It will provide a more holistic standard and a forward-looking and good path. The cost of the project has been significantly reduced compared to the original estimate of the State Road Service. Expected cost is now 11.4 billion. kr – there are many cost estimates in the proposition – for four fields throughout the journey, against 12.7 billion. kr, which was the original proposal of the State Road Administration, with two and three fields on the route Whitehammar-Åsen. Societal benefits have been significantly improved and, on these assumptions, the project has gone from being socio-economically unprofitable to becoming socio-economically profitable. It is gratifying that there is a great deal of consensus about this project. I still record that SV does not want to carry out the project with a four-field road, but will go back to the original plans with a two- and three-field road at a lower speed limit. It is strange to me that poorer road capacity is SV's main environmental action. Cows and chaos are not good environmental policies. I believe that in a few years we will achieve the zero emission targets of car traffic, and that it is also important that we have good and safe roads to drive on. I also see, as the representative Leirtrø said, that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV in the comments on the adjustment are concerned about the overall toll load when all sections between Berkåk and Åsen are extended. There is every reason to be aware of the total toll load in an area and that the tolling stations are located in such a way that there is a good match between both payment and use of the road. Toll financing must be seen as reasonable, measured against the benefit of saved travel time, increased accessibility and increased road safety. However, when the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the SV express concerns about the level of tolls, it is not very credible, since they have no other alternative funding or more state resources to contribute. They vote in favour of all toll proposals and, in addition, they oppose the government proposal for a subsidy scheme to reduce the rates. In that case, concerns about the level of tolls are largely just symbolic policies. We see that the establishment of Nye Veier has been of great importance and has contributed to more cost-effective development and increased societal benefits in the projects. A comprehensive development of a four-field road system north and south of Trondheim will have a major impact on the development of the whole region. We are happy, along with the drones, when we now adopt the financing and expansion of the E6 Ranheim-Åsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1949	After a long debate and a rather heavy start to the day with Oslopack 3. We think it is very gratifying that the presidency has set up this matter at the end of the matters we are going to deal with, because then we will end up with a real cause of joy. This is absolutely amazing. Unlike Oslopackakt 3, what is now going to happen in Trøndelag, the expansion of Ranheim–Åsen across four municipalities: Trondheim, Malvik, Stjørdal and Levanger, a real cause of joy. There is no doubt that this is the best and one of the most important things – at least from a Progress Party venue and our heart, which is close to Nye Veier – we are dealing with today. Such things really give inspiration and motivation to stand on and continue building the country, and such things show how important it is to have the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, with the good support of the Christian People's Party, in government. For the fact is that without these four cooperation parties, we had not been here today and discussed the development of the entire 42 km of four-field road at 110 km/h in Trøndelag. It's a fact that no one can turn away or explain away, regardless of political position. In Norwegian transport policy, this is unique and truly historic. We would not have done that without New Roads, and it shows how important it is to fill up with new projects for New Roads. The progress party has said that before, and we say it again: New Wegener is a success. We have another example of that here. The journey length of the two sections will be reduced, and we will now have a fully-fledged standard and sufficient capacity to avoid both today's and tomorrow's traffic in a fast, safe and efficient way. The expansion is to take place under the direction of New Roads, and we in the Progress Party are very pleased about that. Just New Roads have made it possible to turn this project into a fully-fledged four-field project with socio-economic profitability. The state road system, as my colleague Helge Orten told me quite well, would unfortunately pay close attention to a two-field solution with a little pass-by possibility and 90 km/h. We are very pleased that New Roads are now abandoning the strange solution – a poor solution – that would only ensure road safety, but not meet the need for increased capacity, increased accessibility or increased societal benefits. It shows that competition is good, and that New Veger contributes to raising Norwegian road development up to a level with our neighbouring country. The sections that are now being replaced are accident-affected, with few reversions. Annual E6 traffic back to 2016 varies from nearly 9000 to up to 20,000 vehicles. Of course, a relatively high proportion of heavy-duty vehicles require the construction of four fields. For a FrP, it's very happy to see it's in line with the leadership we've given in the NTP, that there's not going to be a bomb on local roads or sideways. In addition, the majority believe that toll tariffs can be lowered by using market rates or by fixing interest rates, so that the drivers benefit from a lower toll rate. Finally, I must say it is gratifying to see that, unfortunately, apart from our colleague Nävra of SV, an almost overall committee focuses on both road safety, accessibility, capacity and the social economy. Consequently, it is also a little disappointing, but not surprising, that SV does not focus on this, but only on one thing; road safety, and not on all the other important points. Of course, in terms of the price being too high, we fully agree with the Workers' Party, which pointed it out. $600 is too expensive. A poor little comfort is that thanks to today's government we have introduced a discount of 20 pst. It would cost over 700 kroner if we didn't have it. Alternative funding is that the state assumes a greater share of responsibility. Alternative funding is not to impose on drivers other new, creative solutions to take the money from those who drive a car. The Progress Party has been ready for many years, it is fully possible if the bulk of the population joins it, to use more of the oil wealth to invest in Norway to build safe, secure and forward-looking infrastructure in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1972	Now there is funding and expansion on the Ranheim-Åsen section of Trøndelag. It'll be about. 42 km of four-field road and a speed limit of 110 km/h. This route is accident-related, and in the period 2007–2017 there were 15 accidents involving serious injury or death – 4 people were killed and 14 were severely injured in these accidents. Life and health, road safety, is important for the Center Party, and I sincerely hope that we will see that the number of accidents goes down on this route. We know that the number of kilometers goes down by approx. 5, and that travel time goes down by almost 15 minutes. But I have to point out the high toll cost through Trøndelag when the entire portfolio of New Roads is realised. Then for a passenger car it will cost SEK 600 turn–return Berkåk–Åsen. The centre party believes it is time to put in place alternative solutions for tolls. I would also like to refer to the guarantee liability of the county council in this project of SEK 9.8 billion. kr. The central party believes that the State itself must provide guarantees for national roads and refers to the representative proposal of the Central Party, promoted among others. by Ivar Odnes, on behalf of the Transport Committee, on the reduction of tolls resulting from the State takeover of the toll guarantee. The Central Party considers it appropriate that the State assumes the guarantee liability for existing national toll projects. The Central Party believes that future national road projects, as we are dealing with now, should have State guarantees for toll loans. And the Central Party believes that reduced borrowing costs due to state guarantees must benefit the road users. As that matter arose, the government parties constituted a majority in order to assess again whether it is appropriate for county municipalities to continue to provide guarantees for national tolls, and they would come back to Stortinget with it. We voted in favour of that, and I'm waiting eagerly for this to result in the state taking over the guarantee liability on behalf of the county council on this road project. I hope that will happen quite soon. Finally, I would like to point out the lack of capacity on the Trønderbanen during the development of E6. It is of great importance to the development of the Trønderbanen and Trøndelag County that decisions in the NTP are launched as promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e1987	The SV will once again point out that the objective of transport planning in Norway must be to maximise access to the best possible environmentally friendly transport facilities. The size is well-known with SV's vision, not least after my posts here today, and that this starting point naturally involves a down-priority of new four-field motorways, which contribute to increased car traffic, increased greenhouse gas emissions and the degradation of nature and food soils. It's a line right over here. I'm trying to be consistent. I try to say what we mean on every occasion, and try not to break out of a principle here. Similarly, it is known that SV believes that the Community funds should go more towards financing upgrading the railways, more public transport in cities and lynching between the major cities of Norway. If we are to succeed in getting freight and passenger traffic on track, we need to bet more on the right track than motorways. The proposed road project in this proposition is an example of this type of environmentally hostile and low-economically profitable road projects, as SV sees it. SV believes that instead of a new 110 km/h new four-field motorway, the existing road should be repaired, with two/three fields and mainly follow the current trajectory, i.e. more in line with the first proposal that was abandoned. It's that simple, but it's so hard. When the budgets are dealt with here in the hall, there are motorways that come back on the road. I noticed that our committee leader, the place, visited SV with a little wonder that we would have the original option with the scaled-down version. There is most SV can offer, said the place, queue and unattainable roads – something like this. I guess there's a little bit on the limit of dishonesty when SV has clear alternatives. So we want to build trains first, with more frequent departures, electrification in this case. And then we'll see, after it's built for trains, after we've got a better offer on the rails, what we need for four-field roads in the future. I know electric cars are coming. It was just supposed to be missing. Everyone knows that now. What we're talking about is goods, which will hang after quite a long time. And we're talking about anyway, cars require resources, and they take their place. All of this suggests that on longer distances the railway is a good alternative. We're also trying to have a consistent attitude between local teams, county parties and up to Stortinget. This leads to that we have had equal voting and similar remarks pretty much all the way. The same assessment that I now had, we also have of the planned expansion of E6 Åsen-Mær. That route should also be corrected on the basis of the current route and not be built as a new four-field road – for the same reasons as mentioned for the Ranheim-Åsen route. It is against this background that SV promotes the proposal that I am addressing herein.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2002	The representative Arne Nävra has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2007	A few more thunders to praise the work that New Weger has done in Trøndelag for the time being. It hasn't built anything yet, so we'll see how it works. But the story is that it was met with great scepticism when New Veier made the proposal to bet on Ranheim–Åsen first, instead of what all local politicians in Trøndelag had thought, that it was south of Trondheim, from Melhus up to Ulsberg, that one should continue that was the most important thing. It also got New Roads in its portfolio, but it turned out to be much worse socio-economic, so it became Ranheim-Åsen. I have to say that New Roads can certainly build a road, but they are also very good at both speaking out their case and explaining how this is linked. I think that today most people in Trøndelag are convinced that this is the right priority, and especially when you have now received notice that the road in the south may come sooner than initially assumed. But I see two challenges in that we are now building Ranheim-Åsen. One is that there is a major problem with the zero growth target for car traffic in Trondheim. Trondheim is right in these days in negotiations with the Ministry of Transport on an urban capital speech. It says we should not increase car traffic any compared to today. When you get such a good road and increased capacity on this road section, it can certainly be tempting for the drivers to drive all the way into Trondheim. What's described a little bit in the proposition, and the politicians in Trøndelag are very concerned about, is that the toll station at Ranheim is being maintained so that it gets into the portfolio of the environmental package. The aim of the environmental package is to maintain the vision of zero growth in car traffic in Trondheim. It can be done by making a good transition to a collective system into Trondheim. The second challenge that has been mentioned here is the railway running parallel to E6. There's only two things that apply. There is better capacity and faster trains on this route. It can clearly relieve the traffic on the road quite heavily, and especially between Trondheim and Værnes. A flight should be established. That's about. 20 000 cars, ÅDT, which runs Trondheim–Værnes today, and you think that maybe 30-40 pst. Of these cars go to the Guards to park there. They're not going any further, because no one can take the car on the plane. It should be parked there, and it is these cars that you should definitely leave at home, and so rather drive by train or bus into the Værnes. The train clearly has a large capacity and can be a very good environmental measure if this is being implemented, to prevent Trondheim from being overcrowded by cars and instead of being able to develop as an environmentally friendly city. So we hope to be the result of this road construction. You can't just let traffic increase and increase. It's clearly going to be more roadworthy. We have clouded tunnel solutions today, we can't stand a tunnel fire in these long tunnels between Trondheim and Stjørdal. We should also be able to relieve ourselves of the fact that today there is becoming quite a lot of queues at some times of the week. That is why we welcome this – and also the road safety of Åsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2016	This is probably a good case, where we now have an important road project that is good for both local business and local residents, as well as for the region and the nation. On my first trip as State Council, from south to north, we drove among others. E6 through Trøndelag. I got the pleasure of sitting on a 1976 model Cadillac Eldorado on the route northward through Åsen. We stopped in Verdal, where I got to drive on with a truck. It was quite obvious that these were road sections that were the basis for wanting better, and I am glad that today we are standing here and deciding that now we are going to build. It has not only been easy to get here. There's been a lot of cuts in the sea. One is of course that the projects are large and expensive and it is difficult to find money, but there has also been a very strong local resistance to building the E6 northwards, one would rather have it southwards. Now I am happy that we are going to put both the E6 northwards and the E6 southwards, faster than what has been planned and prepared before. The useful value of placing the north first is also greater. We have had to fight with the Workers' Party in Trondheim, which would not have city-wide speech in the city if this road were built out. Now I'm glad we get both of them. I note that the reforms we have implemented in the road sector – by building better, faster and cheaper – now deliver results. But if we waste three years back in time, the warnings were clear: the reform we carried out would put the road construction back decades in time. Now we see that we can talk about decades of acceleration. Now that we're adopting 42 kilometers of a new road, there's a lot in itself. In view of the fact that the E18 through Vestfold has been expanded by approx. 4 km a year and E39 from Stavanger to Sandnes with approx. a few kilometers a year, there's a lot we're now adopting at once. But what's probably so important about looking forward, is that we now get a road that's four fields throughout the route and essentially 110 km/h. There is something other than what was on the desk when we took over. Then it was about two- and three-field roads. What's extra joy is that we get a long road bill with higher speed and capacity, but at a lower price than what was available when we took over. That the price tag has gone from 12.7 billion. kr – which was the Vegvesen estimate for a two- and three-field road and partly four-field – to now cost 11,43 billion. kr, i.e. with increased capacity and higher speed, shows that New Roads are able to deliver in their role. I want to hurry to add that the Road Administration has shown that in the reforms and changes we have made, they can also deliver in the same way. It is about giving greater freedom to professionals to carry out longer distances and actually be more forward-looking. What the Vegvesen is doing on the E6 in Helgeland, where we're talking about 16 miles of new road, is also incredibly good. Here we have also seen that focusing more on just costs, but also on benefits, has produced results, because this path was basically socio-economically unprofitable. So as a result of the changes we've made, costs have both fallen and value added has risen sharply, and it is now socially profitable. That's why I think that too many on the civil side give a little extra satisfaction when we can adopt this way, because it shows as many positive results of a road reform as four parties were in favour of, but the opposition was against. This is one of the proofs that it made sense to do what we originally planned. That's right, as Gunnes' representative says, we haven't put the shovel in the ground yet, and it has to be built. But where we see that New Veier is going on, they have also delivered well so far. It is important that we continue to work to keep costs down. Both Vegvesenet and Nye Wegener are busy working on the contracts until construction starts to look at even better solutions and lower prices. It gives us the opportunity to imagine that tolls can be even lower than what's in there now, and that through loan arrangements and the like, we're looking at getting the fare as low as possible. There is a discrepancy between the tariff proposed and what has been adopted locally, i.e. lower rates are proposed here in the Chamber today than those on which local decisions have been based. I hope that, before it opens, we can see another reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2046	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2051	I didn't really intend to take the floor, but the representative Tor André Johnsen made me take the floor again. He claims it was those who introduced 20 pst. Toll discount. Today I have 50 pst. discount on tolls, and my home is Stjørdal. Even though it's now going to be 20 pst. for all, there is an agreement that some are quite concerned about, so for some it becomes much worse than it is today, and especially for those who have this as their way of working. To the representative Helge Orten, who says that our toll worry is not real: we asked an investigation in NTP about alternative road pricing, and it would have been nice if the government also looked at this as a necessity. It's becoming quite a lot of big road projects that cost a lot for individuals, and mentioning 500 million. kr in the state budget as a mechanism to reduce tolls, we believe is a symbolic piece, because there are far better ways of reducing tolls than that. We increase the toll percentage much more each year than the 500 million. kr here in Stortinget. It's said from the Council of State that the red-greens in Trøndelag have opposed this road construction. That's not true. They've been for this road construction, but they had a priority order of things. It was E6 southward with freight terminal south of Trondheim, it was electrification and faster trains north of Trondheim, and it was this road project. Now it has calmed down in Trøndelag, thanks to the fact that New Veier also prioritizes it in the south. We have a challenge with the freight terminal and freight to the south or north. And it wasn't like that they didn't want an urban index. They would have a guarantee from the Council of State that a four-field motorway actually did not challenge the environmental requirements of Trondheim, because it is not that cars on a four-field highway disappear at the city border.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2060	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2076	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2085	Today we are discussing a proposal for a representative on smart cities. The proposal is to ask the government to develop a national smart city strategy dealing with safe and open smart city infrastructure, including to explore the need to secure national data platforms and standards and to ensure public ownership of data in order to secure the Community's share of future value creation and to provide a basis for future innovation. The Transport and Communications Committee took a preliminary position on the matter on 8 May and sent it to the Municipal and Management Committee for its opinion. As rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its constructive cooperation. A unanimous committee strongly agrees with the proposers that Norway needs a smart city strategy and that the opportunities for innovation, jobs and better cities for its citizens are enormous if properly and timely. For example, investing in smart cities can contribute to better mobility, better urban use, better urban information, more efficient use of energy and other resources, and better urban planning decisions. The Committee would point out that the concept of smart cities has taken root internationally, as a collective term in innovative, ICT-based ways of organising small and large parts of urban life, and that the purpose of smart cities is to renew, simplify and improve cities, from the perspective of citizens, businesses and the public sector. The Committee also agrees that it is important that the municipalities themselves are in the driving position in this work, preferably in interaction with local business, because it is the municipalities themselves who know best what the key areas of local action are. Many municipalities are currently taking good and exciting initiatives, using digital technologies to improve the quality of life of citizens, provide better services and reduce climate and environmental problems. The Committee notes that, to date, the government does not consider it appropriate to develop its own national strategy for smart cities, and points out that both the need and the challenges, as well as the priorities and initiatives of municipalities, are too different for a common national recipe to be appropriate. The Committee further points out that a significant increase in technology and digitisation efforts in the transport sector has been announced through the National Transport Plan. Developments in new technologies are taking place at a high pace, and Norway has one of the world’s most technologically advanced populations and good digital infrastructure, and Norway, as a small country, can move quickly and benefit from close cooperation between public, business and academia. The Jeløya platform shows that the government will carry out a comprehensive evaluation of Norwegian laws and regulations, with a view to identifying unnecessary rules that prevent or delay the use of transport technology and ICT solutions. The use of intelligent traffic systems, autonomous solutions and other technologies in the transport sector shall be facilitated with improved capacity utilisation, increased road safety and improved provision to travellers. The Committee welcomes this. So far there is a great deal of consensus in the committee. The members of the Committee of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Left point out that the Government Platform calls for the strengthening of public sector innovation efforts in order to ensure good services, better coordination and good use of society’s resources. The Jelaua platform is clear that the government will develop a strategy for digitisation in the public sector. The ongoing initiatives, mechanisms and measures already in place, together with the government platform, will contribute to important improvements in order to realise smarter cities and communities. We want to highlight that the government is already working specifically, we are going to follow this subject and continue to work to identify specific obstacles or barriers where cities and municipalities themselves signal that there is a need for increased coordination. The JELUEA platform is also clear that the government will develop a public sector digitalisation strategy to strengthen efforts, cooperation and coordination. The Right, Left and Advance Party therefore believe that the government is already delivering on the punk, and agree that it is not natural for new, specific items to be created on the state budget now. In view of the above, the members of the Committee of the Right, Left and Progressive Party are of the opinion that the proposal for a representative on smart cities should not be adopted. I expect other parties to present their proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2110	Smart cities are a relatively new concept. These are technological developments, which make innovative, ICT-based ways of organising small and large parts of urban life more important and important. We must do this on the premises of citizens, businesses and the public sector and demand that things be put into a system that facilitates and ensures the everyday life of all. The Transport Committee was on a visit to Nkom, the National Communications Authority, yesterday. There we were told a future where everything from waste fumigation to autonomous vehicles and remote-controlled houses, roughly, is digitally controlled – through smart systems that will both facilitate the everyday life of many and probably also save lives. The proposers point out that cities around the world face major challenges, with increasing urbanisation, lack of infrastructure, greater demands and an increasing proportion of older people in the population. Urban challenges are best addressed by new technologies, with cooperation and close integration. This alone should lead to a national strategy in this area. At the same time, the proposers point out that this area will also provide a market opportunity of over 13 000 billion. kr for the next five years. That's money, too. It could give us a lot of opportunities. We live in a small country with few inhabitants, but have a huge advantage associated with the work ahead of us in this area. We have one of the most technologically advanced people in the world, and we have to use that advantage. With a relatively small population, we depend on arranging cities so that the inhabitants have a good and safe everyday life. That is why it is a good proposal to deal with this matter. Smart cities are, as the rapporteur was in the case, an international collective term. Norway should be at the forefront of this work. There's a lot going on in Norwegian municipalities, but there's no overall strategy for it. Fragmented bets mean that there is a high potential for both business, market and efficiency. Norway is located two to three years after pre-accession countries such as Spain, Japan and South Korea. This means that we are at risk of not becoming a leading country in technology, innovation and sustainable, smart cities. Then we are at risk of not being able to participate in the big market this will be in a few years, and the value creation this will bring. This proposal is good. It is so good that the Storting should adopt it so that the government develops a national smart city strategy and that the government in the context of the 2019 government budget assesses the need for a national funding scheme for smart city initiatives. It is a funding issue that promotes cooperation between municipalities and escalates local projects to become national. In doing so, I take up the three proposals that are being promoted in the case, and hope they are adopted, for the benefit of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2127	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2132	I would like to begin by stressing that the topic raised by the proposers is both interesting and important in the debate on society. I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a good review of the matter, but I would like to make some comments. Proposalers assume that the opportunities for innovation, jobs and better cities for citizens are enormous if properly and in time. I agree with that: the proposers also believe that such initiatives in Norwegian municipalities require an overall national strategy that can target the efforts and facilitate the necessary instruments and support schemes. I disagree. Firstly, many municipalities are already taking good and exciting initiatives, using digital technologies to improve the vitality of citizens, provide better services and reduce climate and environmental problems. Secondly, it is important that the municipalities themselves are in the driving force of this work – preferably in interaction with local business – as the municipalities themselves know what the main local areas are. Thirdly, it could bring significant economic benefits by, for example: new technologies release resources that can be used in other areas. The aim of smart cities is to renew, simplify and improve cities from the perspective of citizens, businesses and the public sector. Investing in smart cities can contribute to better mobility, better use of urban space, more efficient use of energy and other resources and better decision-making for urban planning. It is important to stress that this is a municipal responsibility, and that many municipalities already have concrete cooperation on the theme, especially the largest municipalities and cities. I would also like to point out that there is extensive cooperation between cities in Europe, where Norwegian cities also participate. I believe on a general basis that municipalities and cities know to gain experience from domestic and foreign countries and share them with other municipalities and cities. Mobility and transport are important elements in all smart urban contexts, and the Ministry of Transport points out that rapid technological development combined with reforms and new solutions provide better opportunities than in the past to realise an efficient and climate-friendly transport system. It turns out that the main trends in the social sector are efficiency, autonomy, digitisation and the emergence of new service concepts. These are trends that are likely to have the greatest impact in urban areas. I agree with that. In its statement, the majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, point out that the government platform calls for the strengthening of public sector innovation activities in order to ensure good services, better coordination and good use of societal resources. We therefore agree with the Committee's position that this proposal should be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2147	There is a lot of smart planning and development in cities, counties and municipalities for the time being. It has done so far before, but now it has been called smart specialization or smart cities and is used soon everywhere, no matter how smart it is. The central party believes that the proposal for a national smart city strategy is positive, but it must nevertheless be said that several of the challenges highlighted in the proposal are challenges that are not only for cities but for municipalities in general, and that therefore must be solved by and for a single municipal sector. It is important that the municipalities themselves take the lead in the modernisation and conversion work, in interaction with local businesses and other local actors. The central party has stated that we support the proposal, which is being put forward here by Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV. We believe it is important that we get a national bet and a strategy that also takes care of, among other things. data security and innovation to the benefit of the community. There is also a company called Smarte Towns Norway AS, which has been operating for three years. They deliver consulting and consulting services. They have established a broad network of businesses, research sectors and municipalities, and good initiatives are being taken in this company and in this network. There are good meeting places in place and exciting development efforts are taking place in their work. The centre party supports all such good initiatives. However, it is also important that, through the establishment of a national strategy, better coordination of work and good interaction between state, state, municipality and business across the country can be ensured when individual smart cities and municipalities develop their strategies. There is thus a great potential for using new technologies, such as autonomous driving gear, smart construction and infrastructure as a lever for less noise and pollution, and a more resilient urban and working environment around our cities and municipalities. So yes, the Central Party wants a national smart city strategy and is therefore behind the proposal at three points in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2160	The smart city concept contains a lot, as mentioned by several speakers already. There is also no clearly defined expression, but something I think we need to do gradually as we go up the road, because it really includes all parts of society, such as the transport sector, the health and care sector, the general government and much, much more. It is important, as the proposers point out, that Norway uses this opportunity to be ahead of developments. It should almost only be lacking, given the level of technology in Norway and at the level of education. And the proposers – whom I would like to commend for even making the proposal – argue well for their views. They say that the fact that Norway is a small country is actually a priority. That's what SV believes. However, in order to exploit this advantage, a strategy for smart urban development should now be established in Norway. Therefore, the minority suggests that ‘The government is asked to develop a national smart-city strategy dealing with a safe and open smart-city infrastructure’, detailed in the proposal. But we don't get any speed or initiative in this whether it doesn't come with money. It is therefore important that a national funding mechanism for such initiatives should be considered in budgetary terms, both in terms of studies and concrete actions. The policy is now such that without following money, there is little going on. Of course, the projects that can be raised through local initiatives to projects that may be of national interest and that may be transferable to other areas of society or other geographical areas are of paramount interest. SV believes it is essential that the public sector is offensive in terms of digitisation and technology development, and the public sector must constantly look for new ways to implement new technologies, both nationally and locally. Therefore, the SV supports the development of a smart city strategy by Norway and allows local authorities to see the different ways in which they can implement smart city initiatives. It is important that this strategy is as open as possible, and that is of course also for obvious privacy reasons. Furthermore, such a strategy should assess how smart-city technologies can be made as accessible as possible and how the strategy can contribute to good, environmentally friendly solutions. In the opinion of the SV, it does not consider that the majority refers to the Council of State, which in turn refers to ongoing initiatives and the arrangements and measures already in place, together with the government platform, which will contribute to important improvements in order to realise smarter cities and communities – and that, on this basis, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation does not see it as natural that new, specific posts be created on the State budget now. The Council of State also points out in its reply to the Transport and Communications Committee that the Jeløya platform is clear that the government will develop a strategy for digitising in the public sector, in order to strengthen efforts for cooperation and coordination. Again, this sector needs coordination, and ideas and actions need economic incentives. We don't necessarily have to talk about neck-breaking sums here. Keep in mind, too, that we are talking about funds for later earnings – there may be huge gains to be made, both for business and for the public. I will therefore, of course, again announce that we recommend the proposals, among other things. SV is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2179	Smart cities are probably not a new concept – it was mentioned that the company Smarte Cities has existed for three years. But you've had Smart City, that's for about. 10 years ago the introduction of Smart City concepts. Trondheim was one of the cities – businesses, interest groups and Trondheim city. It failed, unfortunately. We didn't get anything out of it in Trondheim. What was the reason for this? It might not have been mature enough, the technology hadn't come far enough for it to be good enough yet. In addition, enough business and stakeholder organisations had high expectations both for support and for creating a market. Now digitalisation has come much further. In ten years it has come miles further. That is why we now have the Green Party's initiative and, not least, the awakening for the whole country that it is perhaps time to talk even more about smart cities and the implementation of specific projects. But I think you should talk most to the municipality and the county municipality, perhaps in particular the municipality. I think that the government made an arrangement, for example. in the context of climate change, i.e. external climate action in municipalities, a reward scheme, is a typical good thing that could have been done in the field of digitisation as well, to put new technologies into practice and to facilitate conditions. But then it is the municipalities that have to take the initiatives of the projects, and also be involved in financing them, along with the state. I had much more faith in that – an organisation of such a project – than a national scheme to outline how this is to be done for each municipality, because the difference is so great in the different municipalities, both in terms of how far you have come, and not least in terms of the engagements you have in your municipality. We have e.g. the energy companies. There are now several of those who call for support to set up solar panels, because they see that these close-up measures to solve network operation are coming quite soon, that there will be a strenuous network because of the electric cars, but also because of the new market that is going to be created through the new technology, and also the good development we have on both solar cells, battery and various things. During this year, all energy companies, network companies, will replace the meter at our home. I want everyone to get a smart meter. It can get so smart that we don't really have an overview of what they can actually use all of these numbers for, but it just shows that there's a race, and they're interested because you have to streamline the power supply. It shall improve the efficiency of meter readings and may be associated with and aid in an emergency in the case of a strenuous network. Many others can certainly make good use of the technology and the new digitisation, so these were really just some examples that I think are best solved by taking the local initiatives and wanting to spread after that. KS probably has a big task, and the government is probably also able to come up with good measures. But that we need a national strategy for this at this point, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2190	It has not been long since we dealt with the Digital Agenda for Norway and the National Transport Plan 2018–2029. In both of these large-scale communications, the State has committed itself to increasing its efforts in technology and digitisation. Smart cities are part of an overall picture, where technological development gives us completely new opportunities in the development of good communities and good housing and urban environment. The development of smart cities depends on the strengthening of the public and private sectors in different types of partnerships. Therefore, it is important that the State commits and that the State contributes. The concept of smart cities is comprehensive and can address everything from ICT development and smart energy solutions to efficient mobility solutions, information management and planning of rational and efficient infrastructure. There are major trends we're talking about here, but it's also a development we can stimulate, strengthen and direct. For a technology optimist, the development of major opportunities in the environment, sustainability, land efficiency, mobility and communication — yes, almost in all relevant areas related to urban environment, urban development and urban planning. So today, all municipalities are using digital technology to improve their services. Digital technology is used to reduce climate and environmental problems and to provide more efficient transport solutions. As the Transport and Communications Committee points out, the municipalities themselves must be in the driving position in this work, preferably in liaison with local business. It's about local self-determination, and it's about the municipalities that know best what solutions are suitable for them and their inhabitants. At the same time, the Christian People's Party is concerned that the government must be a driver and a partner related to the use of state instruments. In our opinion, the state must contribute incentives and competences. So the question is whether there is a need for a separate national strategy for smart cities. I see that the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation does not think it appropriate to develop a separate national strategy for smart cities now. A reason for this is, among other things, the need and challenges, as well as the priorities and initiatives of municipalities, are too different for a common national recipe to be appropriate. The Christian People's Party agrees with the assessment of the Council of State, and we therefore support the recommendation of the Committee on Transport and Communications. However, the central issue in the future must be that the State is an active support player in the implementation of digital solutions. In particular, it is important that the State contributes with competence and solutions to the municipalities, so that you do not sit on each other and invent the powder separately. Nor is there any doubt that challenges of mobility and transport will become more and more important in future cities. In order to address the challenges related, inter alia, to: traffic safety, capacity, environment and climate, we need to modernise the transport system. For example, intelligent transport systems could be an important factor in the type of modernisation process. Systems for the application of information and communication technologies in the road sector believe that we can influence behaviour and improve transport solutions and traffic management. New technological solutions can improve accessibility and not least increase road safety and contribute to lower emissions from the transport sector. I am pleased that we have a government and a large number of people who are active in modernising the transport system, including through technological innovation and early use of new solutions. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that this work is now reinforced, and that the government ensures that legislation and legislation are always up to date and relevant. That is why the Christian People's Party is voting in favour of the Committee's recommendation and against the minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2209	The company TaKaYou have developed software and sensors that can analyze a whole town's water supply. Up to half of all water entering the water pipes never reaches the taps, but gets lost in hidden faults and leaks. Then TaKaYou can calculate up to where the major leakages occur, and better water use, make cheaper repairs and give a smoother pressure. The company Nordic Automation Systems has developed smart street lights with sensors that turn street lights on and off depending on needs, pedestrians, cyclists, etc. There are also companies with air quality sensors that can provide the public with real-time information on air quality in different urban areas, which is particularly important for those with asthma or other respiratory diseases. There are solutions and companies that allow electric cars to sell power back from batteries to the grid and through smart meters to help stabilise the grid, e.g. in case of a voltage drop. Sensors are available for parking spaces, public transport solutions, general traffic flow monitoring and traffickers. Today, there are sensors and computer systems to digitise all infrastructure, such as water, roads, air, electricity and light – all that makes cities good and safe to live in. So all this physical infrastructure is about to get a digital layer on top of it – sometimes called the Internet of Things. Together, these major data from all systems become a new digital publicity, a common resource, a generalisation that we all use and contribute to. This enables smarter solutions and better living in practice for citizens, while this digitisation can improve resource flow and eliminate waste. But today, we have no national strategy or standard to ensure a general public access to these major data, our digital generalisations. Many traffic data are e.g. Google as owner, and then Google decides how to access them. It seems obvious that there should be open standards, which ensure equal access to the public – open standards for better competition, democratic technology development and transparency. In this context, it is strange that the majority of the Committee refers to ‘needs, challenges and local authorities’ priorities and initiatives being too different for a common national recipe to be appropriate’. This is weird. ‘National strategy’ has been replaced by the word ‘prescription’ and the majority’s rejection of the proposal makes no sense. It's inconsistent with what else they say they're doing in the setting. The result is that since the government's digital agenda was launched, little has happened in the smart city area, and Norway is sinking downwards on the international smart city rankings. To this end, instruments should be set up to promote cooperation between cities, coordination and work sharing of best practice, so as to avoid duplication of work, or to create each one’s system. National instruments should therefore launch projects promoting labour-sharing and cooperation between municipalities and cities, and we need to stimulate work on open standards, high data security and public access based on the urban communities. They have this in common. But these good instruments contained in our proposals are about to be put to the vote, it seems. It is obviously more important for the parties in the position to reject and vote on constructive proposals – not because they are bad, but because they may come from the opposition. Reference is made in the timing and debate to a lot of different initiatives with something smart or digital in them: NTP, self-propelled vehicle, public digitisation, the existence of support schemes that actors can apply for. All of this that's mentioned is well and good, but it's not related, and it shows a lack of strategic understanding of what smart cities are, and what a strategic bet is. These initiatives do not go to the heart, namely the use of digital publics for better life and higher value creation with lower footprints. This is weak parliamentary work. I am a little disappointed when constructive cross-cutting proposals are to be rejected by unwarranted, polarised, party-locked dividing lines. We're facing an in-depth paradigm shift that's far more important than the party divisions. IT was previously something inside the computers, on a screen, but soon it will be all around us. This will be the basis for the functioning of modern cities. So it's sad that the proposals are voted down – for us in Norway, for the environment, for business and perhaps for the world as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2231	Let me try to draw a slightly brighter picture -- that it actually happens a lot, coordinated, planned, but not necessarily in line with a five-year plan, which becomes rigid. I was at the Railway School a couple of weeks ago. I was shown how the railway uses drones to monitor the railway. I was presented with how to work with meters to check the power consumption on various switches, to see if there are any deviations from what is normal, just to see if problems occur – or are on the way to arise – and how a developer drone can travel out to lubricate switches if they feel that things are not as they should. This is being coordinated. But I don't think it's necessarily appropriate for us to have one big document that will take away everything that's possible in every city, and make it a rigid plan. In a development that's tearing, like now, where there's not only a big capital power that's going to be the driver, but all that's happening in our heads, we don't depend on having a lot of money to have a good idea that can evolve. Then it's important that we have a dynamic approach from society to this, and rather make sure that we look in many different areas, continuously, all the way, and learn from each other. It is that we are not going to have a five-year plan and that it is currently difficult to create a national strategy that embraces everything. But it is important that the government is aware of these opportunities, is involved in stimulating the various sectors and ensuring that people talk together. That's where we deliver. Having the continuous work and creating that breadth in both the field of transport, health, school and public services is important. I recall that the Prime Minister has a digitalisation committee that meets relatively often and has had various topics on the agenda. Within that, we also have our own Committee on Transport and Mobility in the Ministry of Transport, which goes even more deeply into this, where there are many people from different parts of Norwegian public and public institutions, so that we can talk well together. It is important that we look at both what technology can develop, how we can deliver better services from the public, how we can make ourselves more serviceable, and also how we can ensure that the private sector has an incentive to develop, to take risks and to commercialise. Then it is important that we have a business with capital, that we have support schemes from the state that stimulate development, but that do not make the state sit and rule and decide. And it's important that we build an infrastructure from the bottom. That's part of the problem that we're doing, that we're talking about together, that we're seeing the results of. Norway is among the world’s most advanced countries in the field of digital infrastructure, both in mobile telephony and in broadband. It's quite well done, considering how much space we have, and how relatively few people there are to divide by costs. Most studies show that only South Korea is further ahead than us in having a well-functioning broadband network. I think we should be proud of that. And while many other countries experience a reduction in investment in digital infrastructure, we experience an increase in broadband. That's good, and it shows that the business community trusts us – in the direction it's going. When we look at what the state is delivering, we also think it illustrates that some of the negative approaches that came here are not right. We are now completing a separate strategy from the Ministry of Transport, which is about how we are going to handle large amounts of data. It comes from the Ministry of Transport because it is where the National Communications Authority is located. We're looking at how the railway's ticket system, which was once concentrated under the NSB and only served them, has now become Entour, serving the entire public sector – once again a sign that we are lifting up and delivering better services without it being a strategy that goes on everything in the cities. We're looking at how we now have competition in smart transport, with 100 million. Dr in the pot, just to stimulate the counties to work with business and the academy to solve small and big problems and get money. We also have different arrangements within PILOT-E and Pilot-T, which now distribute money to stimulate interaction. As late as yesterday, I was out with Innovation Norway on what is called Innovation Partnership – to ensure that different actors, private and public, work together to solve things. So much happens so fast here that if we make a national strategy for everything that's going to happen in smart cities, that strategy is always going to be out of date. Where we are now, it's important that we manage to be microfocused, while having a macroimage. It has the government, but we must not interfere with more bureaucracy than necessary if we are to win this race.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2252	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2257	I took note of a few words from the beginning of the Council of State, where it is mentioned: you should not have a recipe, it is rigid, the five-year plan, it becomes bureaucracy, a large document, and the state sits and governs and rules. I would like to remind you that the government has a wide range of strategies, such as: for mental health – as the Council of State itself said – a large-scale data strategy, sea strategy, EU cooperation strategy, etc., but when the opposition proposes a strategy, it is bureaucracy. But let's forget about it. Let's focus on the other two suggestions. One proposal is to reward cooperation projects and national scale local initiatives. Does the Council of State think this is a bad idea? What about a support programme for municipal potential studies? Many municipalities struggle to see what are the possibilities for the area. How can smart cities give our inhabitants a better life and less waste? Why not go in for national scaling, with more cooperation, and why not have municipal opportunity studies? I didn't hear anything about that, and... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2266	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2271	First of all, the summary of my article is one of the weirdest things I've ever heard. I think I had more perspective than that. We can do that afterwards. I believe that under what – for my part – in my notes is bullet point 8, I just point out how the state can go in and stimulate through the Smarter Transport Competition, through PILOT-E, through the Pilot-T and through the Innovation Partnership, through Innovation Norway. There are four different programmes, which are relatively targeted outside their sectors, but where one has not sat down and spent a long time creating a strategy where all of this is to be looked up to each other. It's just the dynamics that you should be able to be fast in the lab, that you should be able to sit in Innovation Norway and work closely on them, to look at: do we have concrete problems to solve? Who can do that? And then one starts. The three amounts that were distributed yesterday were marked by just that. What is extremely important, says Innovation Norway, is that there is a management focus in the organisations working on it. I believe that we are in the process of delivering here. It has nothing to do with the opposition proposing it, it has to do with the fact that we are already working on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2280	The core of the smart city work is not a smart meter here, a smart meter there or a particular monitoring using drones. There is an understanding of what a digital public is, and the ability to ensure equal access for all actors – i.e. equivalent access, which is not distortive – to, for example, traffic data, water data, air data, etc. Do you mean that these open standards, which are the core, are something that is just going to grow out of private initiative, or do you think that the state and the public have a role in ensuring that the digital public is made available in a way that promotes competition and innovation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2287	The President reminds us that all speeches are to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2292	What I had under my bullet point 7, was just about data management and how we from the Ministry of Transport have developed a strategy to handle large data. There it is important that we look at the whole, just to ensure that public data can be used by a general environment, and that it is not owned by one commercial operator. About this, Norway was mentioned in the Financial Times just a few months ago, that we are likely to solve this with access to traffic data in a different and better way than most other countries, precisely because we have created Entour. As part of the railway reform, we launched that system and serve the entire public sector. It means that one does not have one commercial operator who sits and owns this, who can manage it, but that everyone can compete for it and can use it in their systems. It is about ensuring that both information to us as travellers and information to drivers to drive vehicles, and not least strategic decisions, is widely available. That is why our data strategy is an important part, which responds precisely to the wishes of the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2299	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2315	The background to this matter is a discussion that has created a lot of debate, a lot of commitment and a lot of different opinions around the country, but I can reassure the President that then has not been the case in our committee once we have dealt with it. There has been a great deal of consensus here, and I thank you for the Committee's work on this, which is an important matter. There is a consequence that changes have now been made — the size has made changes in the breakdown of the regionally elected level. So the breakdown is not in accordance with the Constitution, and of course we have to do something about that. Now, when this case seems to be unanimously adopted, it facilitates that we can make big choices, also next time, based on the same electoral districts, so that one gets time to see how one should do this in the future, because there is no locking of the situation in itself. It is the intention to deal with this thoroughly, considering what it will be like in the future. It is a little important to clarify that this is not a lock-down for the future, but a practical solution for us in 2021 to have choices for Stortinget with the same 19 electoral districts that we have today. The name of the electoral districts is going to be the same, so it's the well-known electoral districts that will essentially apply. In some places there have been some municipal mergers that will affect the outer boundary, but it is also preserved. It will be a regulation that describes which municipalities belong in which constituency. This has therefore been well taken care of, and the hearing bodies have supported what is now being proposed. That's good. The main changes are that what has been described as a state is now described as an electoral district, and there is a slightly greater flexibility in who should be able to make lists, i.e. where at the party level it is going to happen. This has been done. I just want to point out that there have also been some people who have followed our choice, as we travel around and follow other choices, and there have been some comments on how it has been implemented, but there the committee believes that the department has followed closely, and that it has been preserved through the answers that have come after that observation. It is therefore all right that there is an overall committee behind the vote on the amendments to the electoral law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2330	The government has therefore put forward a proposal to amend the electoral law so that in 2021 the Grand elections can be conducted with today's 19 electoral districts. Predictable frameworks around the election implementation are very important and such issues are resolved well in advance of the elections. Predictability is important both for voters, for lots and for electoral authorities. The division into electoral districts by decision-making is a very central part of our electoral system, and I believe it is important that this be thoroughly investigated and discussed before making any lasting changes. The question was now examined by the Committee on Election Law, where all parts of the Stortinget were represented. I note that the Committee believes that it is a good solution for the electoral law to facilitate the application of the 19 electoral districts until a new division, if any, has been thoroughly reviewed. As the Committee says, this solution is supported by a large majority of the hearing bodies. Today's division into electoral districts takes account of geographical and party political representation, and it would be appropriate and predictable to keep it while waiting for the inquiry into the Election Law Committee. The investigation shall be completed at the beginning of 2020 and will then be sent to a wide-ranging consultation before promoting a proposal for a new electoral law and any changes in the electoral districts of the Grand Duchy. We have also proposed a change in terms of who has the right to sign on a list proposal. It follows from the current rules that a list proposal of sufficient size shall be signed by at least two of the members of the board of the party's local division in the county or municipality to which the list applies. With mergers of municipalities and county councils, there is a need to make this provision a little more flexible than it is today. The electoral law should not provide guidance on how the parties choose to organise themselves in the new entities. It is therefore proposed to amend this in such a way that a list proposal is to be signed by two members of the local unit responsible for the electoral district to which the list applies. For the batches it is important to have clarity about who can sign, in good time before the nomination processes start. The proposition presented today also includes an evaluation of the 2017 elections. The general impression is that the choice was made in a good and reliable way. One of the most important follow-up points is how we can maintain safety and trust in future choices. As is well known, the department laid down a pre-election rule last year which required all municipalities to make a preliminary manual counting of ballots. This change was implemented in a good way in all municipalities and did not lead to delays in counting. The evaluation also shows that this change led to calming down the question of the safety of the enumeration solution. I believe it is essential that our voters have confidence and understanding of how the choice is being made. This trust is created through transparency and information. The question about whether the option is safe is likely to arise again before the next choice. The Ministry is now reviewing all the evaluation reports, and we will also consider how best to ensure this in future elections. In this context, of course, it is also important that the Storting helps to create predictability in the electoral process. By adopting the amendments to the electoral law, we avoid creating uncertainty about the rules of the game in our democracy. Otherwise, the evaluations show that the electronic system used for selection is highly valued by the users, who are our municipalities and county municipalities. The elections in 2017 were the first elections in which municipalities could freely choose to cross the number of people in electronic form on election day, and a whole of 255 municipalities chose to make use of this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2347	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2363	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2372	Since the 1990s, it has been a goal that freight transport over long distances should be transferred from road to sea and track as far as possible. National Transport Plan 2014-2023 states that the government will strengthen and facilitate the competitiveness of maritime and rail freight. Through international agreements, Norway has for many years committed itself to climate change reduction. Nevertheless, CO 2 emissions from road freight transport are increasing. Compared to the population, Norway had about 35 pst. more killings in heavy-duty hatches than average in Europe. The aim of the National Audit Office's investigation has been to assess developments in the transport of goods by road, sea and rail where there is competition between modes of transport, and the reasons for the possible lack of transport of goods by road and rail. In this report, the national audit shows that the objective of transporting freight by sea and by rail has not been achieved. This means that, in the years 2010-2015, for the carriage of goods on routes over 300 km close to port or rail terminal, road transport has increased as much or more than maritime and rail transport. And if the road transport on these routes had been carried out on sea and track instead, the cost of society as a result of accidents, pollution, noise, road wear and cows would have been monthly less. The report also states that the Governing Boards have not been able to strengthen competition in maritime and rail transport compared to road transport, and it is shown that the Ministry has had weak follow-up to the freight transfer objective and that one has not had enough management information. Neither the Department nor the ETAs, according to the National Audit Office's assessment, have had any information on the extent to which the actions taken have really been effective. Lack of information and knowledge may have resulted in actions that could involve the transfer of goods not having been proposed or implemented. Finally, the report points out that the Ministry has taken action to achieve the objective of getting more freight from road to sea and rail. The National Audit Service recommends that the Ministry of Transport provides for a common strategy to pursue the agreed objective of transport of goods by sea and rail, that economic instruments be strengthened, that planned measures be implemented and that new measures be implemented, in order to increase the competitiveness of sea and rail compared to road. In addition, the action page points out that freight transport needs to be targeted specifically at land-use planning processes around ports and rail terminals, in such a way that it also facilitates the transport of goods from sea to rail. The National Audit Office is also clear in its recommendation that the Ministry should ensure stronger control and follow-up of the effects of freight transport measures and the achievement of the objective of transferring goods from road to sea. There is a joint control and constitution committee that essentially adheres to the Riksrevisions and which is also behind the comments on the case. But the government party on the Right and the Progress Party are united on additional comments, which I assume representatives of these parties themselves will do a little bit more to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2406	In a 2010-2016 survey, the Riksrevision concludes that the objectives of transferring goods from road to sea and track have not been achieved, despite the broad consensus on this objective in the Stortinget. The National Audit Office points out that the authorities have not been able to improve the competitiveness of maritime and rail transport compared to road transport, that during this period there have been insufficient measures to achieve the objectives and that management information has not been good enough. I note that this is something that the Minister for Transport is following up and that has been largely taken care of in the treatment of the national transport plan for 2018-2029. In the freight analysis, which forms part of the basis for the treatment of the national transport plan 2018-2029, forecasts have been made showing a significant expected growth in the volume of goods over the next 10 years. The same analysis of goods also shows that the different modes of transport are largely complementary and meet different needs. At the same time, a transfer potential from road to sea and track of an estimated 5 to 7 million has been identified. tonnes. Given the expected growth in the volume of goods, it is not unreasonable to believe that the transfer potential may be slightly higher. The size has therefore also set a target of that 30 pst. of the long road transport operations, i.e. more than 300 km shall be transferred to sea and rail by 2030. It's a goal we think is realistic to achieve. The main parameters for choosing more freight from the railway are increased regularity and predictability. In the State budgets for 2014-2018, rail investment has increased significantly, both for investment and not least for operation and maintenance. In particular, the immediate actions now being implemented at the Alnabru Terminal are important, which will increase terminal capacity and make it more flexible in the short term. It is expected that this investment will increase the attractiveness of the railway and will contribute positively to the transfer of goods from road to rail. In addition, 18 billion have been added to the national transport plan 2018-2029. kr for a freight package, mainly on rail. The main measures are the improvement and renewal of freight terminals and several crossing tracks. These are measures that will also strengthen rail competitiveness in the coming years. Maritime transport has clear competitive advantages in the transport of large quantities over long distances. In recent years measures have been taken to improve the efficiency of unloading services and reduce charges. In addition, a port grant scheme for more efficient ports is to be established and is set at 2 billion. kr for the purpose of the national transport plan 2018-2029. These are measures that will contribute positively to enhancing the competitiveness of maritime transport. An incentive scheme with effect from 2017 has also been put in place to stimulate shipping companies to establish offers to transfer goods from road to sea. Under this grant scheme, a total of 2,7 million was committed as of September 2017. tons of goods from road to sea. This is more than previously expected, and we are therefore optimistic and hope that this action will also have a significant impact in the coming years. I agree that we must have a good management system so that we can measure results and implement the necessary measures. I note that the Riksrevision concludes that it has not been sufficient in the period that has been analysed. Freight transmission is now part of the target structure of the national transport plan 2018-2029 and separate indicators have been established to measure the development of freight transport in selected corridors where competition between modes of transport is greatest. This will also make it easier to measure the results of the measures taken. To sum up, the National Audit Office points out clear weaknesses in the follow-up to Storting’s objective of transferring goods from road to sea and rail during the period analysed, i.e. from 2010 to 2016, also in follow-up systems. In the latest state budgets and in the national transport plan 2018-2029, measures have been put in place that will contribute positively to freight transport, and the Minister for Transport has facilitated a better management system. It is important to have a good factual basis for the decisions to be taken. Therefore, the freight analysis, developed in the context of the national transport plan 2018-2029, provided valuable information on the freight flows and not least a mapping of the transmission potential. Therefore, the objective of freight transmission set out in the National Transport Plan 2018-2029, adopted by the Stortinget, is better anchored in good analysis and should therefore also be more realistic to achieve. With the measures already implemented and those contained in the National Transport Plan 2018-2029, I have good faith that it will be possible to achieve the objective shared by the Stortinge to transfer 30 pst. of the long sea and rail road transport operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2431	I live according to a new crew at the worst road in Norway, E16 from Voss to Bergen. The more than 6 km long road is a national highway linking our two largest cities together. Every day we run along the road with the heart of our throats – with good reason. Traffickers are particularly exposed to accidents, and every five vehicles are a vehicle combination. There are 5 500 cars on the route every day, and the E16 is so many: it is a school road, a work path, a tourist road and a workplace for many of our professional drivers. This is a little bit of the starting point for why it is so important to move more goods from road to road and sea. It's about the fact that every extra train can get on Bergensbanen, saves a road and all the passengers for extra risk of accidents. Many of our roads are not built for the freight we have today. Many of the foreign drivers are not trained to run on these roads – especially in winter days. If we are to be able to get more goods across the sea and on the track, we are forced to see what are the most important things. To use Bergensbanen as an example, it is clear that you need to strengthen regularity, you need to have longer crossing tracks, and you need to get smoother traffic. I had an great-grandfather who wanted to travel, and who in 1923 shut down the electrification of the route and worked to get freight tracks to all the companies. It's the end of today. Today the freight train does not stop once with the companies. But at least it's important that we be able to take the goods that are transported on the long distances to the track. It's also important to see how we can get more on the sea. The National Audit Office states that we are far from achieving the objective of even more transport of goods by sea and by rail. So far, road traffic has had advantages like track and sea haven't had. That'll probably be a good time in the future. Strengthening the competitiveness of the sea and the runway is essentially a matter of political will. Therefore, there is reason to believe that the Department and Etats do not have enough management information in this area. For me, it was a moment of thought when, during the National Audit Office's presentation, we heard that it seemed as if the transport budgets had only co-ordinated their plans without an overarching coordination. Therefore, I am happy to hear today that one will look at it with new eyes, because this has to change. It's good that you now want to look at it in a more unified context. I am pleased that the committee has joined many of the recordings from us in the Center Party in the handling of this matter, and I appreciate the cooperation we have had. It is clear that we are forced to do something, and then we must also look at the charging structure. What worries me the most is how the many companies that run freight on the road today are struggling with the economy. At least then there is no solution to charging. I think society would've started to create support schemes that make them look like they're tending to increase traffic on both the track and the sea. We have other expenditure in society, which is not directly on transport, which we will save by being able to move it. In the context of this committee setting, I hope that the promotion of trade and employment throughout the country will be improved and that the transport of the goods will take place in a more environmentally friendly manner. In this way, we will be better protected by all road users, whether we travel by road, rail or sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2450	I thank the case manager for a good job, and not least the National Auditor for a very important piece of work. Goods by road have been given better conditions of competition than goods by sea and rail. It's the big thing, and it's happened after the Storting has asked many, many times the opposite – even after the Storting has gathered to say that we have a climate problem, that we have to do something about it, and that, among other things, we have to do something about it. must be resolved by moving goods from road to sea and track. Here we have a class example of a job for the National Audit Office. They've done a job now, and there'll be a further tail hang with a follow-up to see if the department actually does this in the future. So the work has not finished. When I hear the local representative saying that this is going to be much better with the new national transport plan, I'm almost tempted to make a bet. For the fasitite, we'll eventually get the further revision coming. But as I see it, in my view, there is nothing in the national transport plan that would indicate that we are getting a change, i.e. that conditions of competition are getting better at sea and track than at road – so much better that it actually starts to get a meaning. That is when the control committee can begin to agree that this matter can be resolved. But until then, you can't. The imbalance that only increases is increasing at all levels. Road transport has become faster, cheaper and more flexible compared to rail and sea transport. Maritime transport is still cheaper, but compared to road transport, it has become slower and less flexible. This also looks at spatial planning. It is easier to organise road projects than for rail projects. And when it comes to general prioritization before construction and budget, one sees that sea and runways are falling behind. For me, the weak port effort of the government, seen over a long period of time, which is also being pulled out by the Riksrevision, is a major anchor point. It has been cut at the expense of national fishing ports and other port operations, which point to the fact that the port of Norway, as a construction site, is being built along the road, not towards the sea. It's a big problem. A country that wants to return to what is the basis for the construction of our nation is now beginning to cut its access. We in SV will follow closely, and I will personally take care of the quotes from the local representative and see if they fit with the further audits that the Riksrevision comes with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2465	The goods find the cheapest and easiest way. Is it easiest to carry goods on the road, transported goods on the road. Is there time and money to save on transporting goods by road or sea, transported goods by keel or rail. It's so simple – and so difficult. It is easy because it is quite obvious that policies and instruments are needed to change what would otherwise be natural development, but it is difficult because target conflicts tend to arise. Interestingly, the National Audit Office points to this, namely that there are some conflicts of objectives in transport policy. For example, it would be effective to apply very restrictive measures to road traffic in order to make sea and rail more competitive. However, this type of instrument will conflict directly with the objective of reducing transport costs for business. Here lies the dilemmas, and we have many of them. We should recognize that there are not just simple solutions here. But that is precisely why we must not let evolution sail its own sea, it must be governed. It is interesting that all parties in the Committee agree to ask for a review of the competitiveness of maritime transport compared to other modes of transport. Then we can get the action space made clear, we can get some of the most important target conflicts identified, and not least we need to look at the charging structure. I expect the Council of State to be on the ball and, if necessary, to consider using an external body, since the criticism of the Riksrevision affects both the department and the department. The more goods we get from road to rail and sea, the better the air quality, we get fewer accidents, less road wear and fewer cows. One ship can take up to several hundred trailers off the road. NTP Freight Analysis gives indications that 300000 trailers can be taken off the roads if the transfer potential is exploited. It will provide fewer trailers through communities and agglomerations across the country. We can see fewer lives destroyed by ugly meeting accidents with car combinations, fewer winter roads will be closed by trailers across, and more people will have a easier life as a result of smaller suspended particulate matter and lower environmental emissions. The transport of goods is complicated. Salesmen and carriers are working to get complicated puzzles to go up. Many of the goods have to be driven on the road, simply because there is no alternative. But if we are to get a freight transfer where the potential is greater, namely on the long distances, track and sea must become more competitive. The Paris climate agreement, the Storting climate agreement and other climate policy commitments mean that we must jointly take a significant responsibility for reducing our climate impact. The transport sector must take its part. I believe the Riksrevision in this report points to several important points about why it is so demanding to get to a turn. Road transport has become faster, cheaper and more flexible compared to maritime and rail transport and few measures have been implemented to enhance the competitiveness of rail freight. At the same time, land for providers and users of transport along the main road network has been better facilitated than at ports and rail terminals. The Ministry's follow-up has also not been good enough. The survey covers the period 2010–2016, but we have been talking about freight transfers for years, without getting enough power. There's cross-political agreement about the goal, but no one has any particular reason to hit the chest. Several governments have struggled to get this done. At the same time, I would say that there is a basis for saying that there is a pace change now. We have an ambitious national transport plan. Some important decisions have been taken, including: linked to a dedicated freight package and incentives have been established to establish new freight routes at sea. The size has set a target of at least 30 pst. of road transport operations, over 300 km, shall be carried over by sea or rail by 2030 and that this objective shall be 50 pst. by 2050. It's ambitious, and it shows a direction. The National Audit Office’s report is an important document showing some of the challenges, but at the same time the report provides a reminder – I would say an important reminder – to the government that it is necessary to speed up the achievement of the objectives adopted by the Stortinget. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's good review.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2488	Let me thank both the Parliament for the treatment and the National Audit Office for the report. It is important that the political objectives are also followed up, so that we are made responsible for the promises and decisions we make, and that we make sure that we become even more good at reaching them in the future. There is absolutely no reason to be satisfied with the situation that is. The ambitions of moving more goods from road to sea and track have been great, and one has not reached the goals that one has set. At the same time, I believe that there is a basis for looking at the future a little more optimisticly than some in the debate have given the impression. I remind you that in the national transport plan, we have based a freight analysis, the aim of which is to transfer goods to the mode of travel that makes the most sense. That means some are still going on the road. That's what's rational, both in terms of the distance to which it's going, and in terms of the amount. It is not natural to set up train departures on any containers if they are going far from where the terminals are and it is far from factory. But more goods can travel collectively anyway. I would also like to remind you that we believe that in NTP 2018-2029 it is the first time that it is actually a very clear objective, and where freight transfer has become part of the target structure. So I think it's a little wrong to criticise for clearly the ambitions that have been before, when they haven't been part of the NTP target structure in the same way. So it's done more than what's created by it. When SV gives the impression that there is no reason to believe that there is something in NTP that is going to change on the status quo, I think it is very passive. We should also note that what the Riksrevision has been based on is the experience in the period 2010–2016. Many of the tools we used after we took over in 2013 are those we are starting to see the results of now. There are things that have happened beyond what would be ‘business as usual’ from the previous government. The railway appropriations for 2010 were 10 billion. kr. In 2018, they're at $23. kr. It means more money to build new railways and more money – not least – to maintain and renew existing railways. For the first time, there is a package of goods in the national transport plan. It's $18. kr. There is now an incentive system that is being developed, and a lot of grips have been made on terminals, etc. which will result in better traffic management for the railway. When the opposition says that freight trains no longer stop in factory areas, that is not correct. During today's government we have again started to build sidings to factory plants in order to move more goods onto rails. I myself went down to Voss water in Agder, where we built the first connection track in very many years. It is also worth noting that in the last two years, NOW has published statistics that show that there is now an increase in the volume of containers on the railway. Let me remind you that there are statistics coming after the measurement period of the Riksrevision is over. The same is true of shipping. We have an incentive scheme for freight transfers to ships that came into force last year and gave a budget of 2.7 billion. tonnes transferred. We have made changes to the unloading service, both in the way the service is performed and in the charges it has. We have put forward a national port strategy, a short sea shipping strategy is under way, and we have presented proposals for changes to the port and water law. All of this helps to stimulate shipping with both reduced costs, increased flexibility and so on. So I'll not least mention what's going on in technology. The largest digitisation project in Norway takes place on the railways. Contracts of 7 billion. kr is signed only a few months ago. Also, what happens in the shipping with autonomous ships – where ASKO has now spoken of their desire to develop a service over the Oslo Earth in order not to have to risk queues in the tunnel, and cooperation between Yara and Kongsberg The Group on the ship «Yara Birkeland» – suggests that more than 40,000 vehicle trainloads can be moved in the year when it is launched. That's why there's reason to be optimistic, but this doesn't make itself. Experience in the past shows that hard work must be done, but one must play with the industry, and there must be capital to make the infrastructure work. I think we've shown examples in recent years that it's getting in place now, but the work is far from over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2511	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2516	The Committee points out in its comments to the unfortunate fact that the transport of dangerous goods is subject to a wide range of regulatory bodies, depending on whether transport is by sea or by land. Last one on the release from Sandvikvåg at 0 p.m. 09.30 to Halhjem send Fjord1 out a message that the dangerous load caused a reduced capacity. This is very painful for the travelers, and it is difficult to plan a ferry trip when a person is met with such restrictions because on the berth there is a car with dynamite or something else that can explode, which is to be carried by ferry, and which can run unhindered through densely built strokes. How can the Council of State contribute to the transport of dangerous goods in a way that does not favour road transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2522	The fact that a person actually has strong restrictions on being able to carry dangerous goods trucks on board ships does not include and favours the use of combinations of vehicles. On the contrary, there is an argument that more of that goods should have gone on shipping in the first place. But it's important that we also look at what is risk management. If you are on a ship and something goes wrong, there are very few escape routes and there is a great risk that things will go wrong. If you're on land, it's easier to jump in a lot of different directions. This is part of the job that DSB and others have to help us handle, so that we make the right demands, but not least that we also have to check that the vehicle train drivers are compliant with the requirements. Let me therefore use ten seconds to mention one important element here, in addition to infrastructure and bets on the sea and the track, and there is stronger control of vehicle trains along the roads in terms of driving and rest time, in terms of cabotage, in terms of labour law, costs and AdBlue – all of this: it must not be such that basement rings can sneak away with low costs on the roads, while we are very strict on the railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2531	When the state councils joined the cottage in 2013, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs was closed. Fisheries were fed, and the coastal part was part of the Ministry of Transport. The reason was that coastal areas such as ports and fairways would then be better cared for when all modes of transport were set around the same table. Now it comes a little bit to each of them at the table one seat – some of them might end up under the table too! But is the Council of State happy with developments in the field? And was it right to close the Coastal Ministry when the Riksrevision's main finding now after four to five years is that the goal of freight transfer has not been achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2536	As a entertainer, it's rare for people to get under the table when I invite them to a party! They are also sitting around a table very nicely – we are not so many floors in the Ministry of Transport, so everyone is sitting up at the table and not at the table. I believe that the fact that we took the coast with us has proved to be a success precisely when you look at the work done on national port strategy, with good strategy, with what is in the national transport plan. But what the Riksrevision most points out is not what has happened in the years since our policy came into force, but the developments that took place in the years before our policy came into force. So that's the period 2010–2016 they're measuring. What I referred to, for example, with the freight transfer incentive, are things that have not been included in the accounts of the National Audit Office, but which provide the basis for thinking that developments will be much more positive when they review us next time. When we also sit around the same table, as we did just a week ago with all our agencies, to discuss contract strategies and the implementation of large projects, I see the advantage of the Coastal Works sitting with us and not sitting where they once sat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2545	We're in the past here. The task of the control committee is to look at the past. We're not that busy for the future. We look at the mistakes you've made in the past, what you've done before, and I'll ask the Council of State to stick to what's the basis for today's debate. There is nothing in the future that can change the way the control committee works in the past – it's just the past. Therefore, I have the following factual questions: Is it true that one has cut in ports under this government, during the period that the Riksrevision has examined?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2550	I have to admit that I do not fully understand the question of cutting ports, because it is not the state that owns ports and grants money for operating ports, it is self-financing. But what we've done is we've set up an incentive mechanism for cooperation between ports, so that's how more money is spent on the state budget now towards ports than before. It's okay that the control committee should only, supposedly, be retrospective, but I thought some of the point of the Riksrevision's report was that we should learn from the mistakes we've made before, so that we'll get better in the future. I also believe that the representative, Knag Fylkesnes, used his advice to talk in the future, but that he did not think that one would get better results in the future than one had before. I think that's a very negative approach. Many of the measures that we have managed to take after our accession are those that will deliver results in the future. So I think what the Riksrevision is telling us is what we're going to learn from, but also show that we've already learned from. Then the results for the future will show if we've done well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2559	Fortida is going to take us again, all of us, and that's the point of the Riksrevision investigations. Now they've made this report, they're going to follow up year after year, until hopefully we've systematically changed the imbalance that has arisen between road, sea and track. So that's the reason, and that's why one should stop a little bit, look a little bit in the rear mirror, see what one has done, and really learn from it -- don't do like the council, jump straight into some thoughtful future, which is very much debated, and say that there's going to happen the change. Back to the ports, which was my original question, and which I feel the Council of State is dodging – an unknown manoeuvre. Have there been any refusals from the State to ports, including national fishing ports, during the period under investigation by the Riksrevision — or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2566	Subsidies for cooperation between transport ports have increased. It didn't exist before. Fishing ports are not part of the transport system as such, so it's on the side of what the Riksrevision has been working on here. If a person wants to have a discussion about fishing ports like that, it's very interesting, but I can't see that it's part of the Riksrevisions thing here. It is important to remember that the report we are now discussing measured the results from 2010 to 2016. It's about two of the years we've had the chance to rule. The rest of the years included: S.I. in control. So if this report says anything about policies that have worked and have not worked, it says that the policy we inherited has not worked. Therefore, I think it is relevant to point out that the results we have seen in recent years of the instruments we have introduced in previous years show that this is working. Therefore, there is reason to be much more optimistic than the representative Knag Fylkesnes was, even though, by virtue of being retrospective, what happened in 2010–2016 was not working.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2575	The colleague of the Council of State, and also the vice-leader of the same party, said that if the conversion to which the representative Rommetveit pointed had not occurred, it would have been better with fishing ports. And fishing ports are definitely part of the infrastructure. They're not just being used for fishing, they're part of the entire infrastructure we have along the coast to transport goods into different types of systems. It was noted that one does not go under the table at the Council of State's parties, but how could one in your own state have gone in order to cut so heavily on port strategies, when one has an explicit goal, when one has a sea strategy and various? Nevertheless, an actual and cut off access to the sea itself, the infrastructure turned to the sea. How can it be done under this government? And the two things are connected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2582	It's not cut off port strategy. There was no national port strategy with money in it until we joined. That money has come now. So I understand that SV here is trying to take fishing ports in as an essential part of whether a successful transport transfer is successful. With regard to the fishing ports that we have been involved in opening, which SV has also been involved in fighting ahead, I was for example. in Berlevag two years ago, and containers cannot be landed there. It's not bulk ports. Small fishing ports are important for the fishing industry. But related to what we're discussing here today, this question is actually completely side by side with the results we're trying to achieve. Some of these ports like to have fast routes inside, and we've made sure that goods in North Norway are part of the new offer. But if we're concerned about how we're going to move more goods over to the cold, it's actually the transport ports we were going to discuss. That's where the transport volume is. So here SV is really on a siding with what is important in order to achieve the goals that the Riksrevision points out to you have not been clear before.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2591	I'll try a slightly different angle that might seem more relevant to the Council of State. We have an entry on the State budget – Chapter 1360, entry 72 – which is a subsidy for road-to-sea transhipment. It was, as far as I recall, in the current year's budget of 70-80 million. kr. Does not the Council of State think that it is a very important tool for getting more goods from the road to the sea, and that it is therefore a question of budgets too – that is, there is a budgetary question of how we can succeed, and then can the criticism of the Riksrevision be met? I see that the Right Party and the Advance Party say in their committee comments that there are natural conditions that make the road come out of it often better. No, it's also budgetary matters, I would say. So I'm maintaining the question to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2598	This was at least a much more relevant issue than the entry of fishing ports. But I think it's substance in both. Part of the transport has a character that makes the road it's natural, just like that too much of the bulk cargo in Norway, oil and gas, ship it's completely natural. One would never have driven oil on a tanker out of the country. So some places say themselves what's natural to choose. But in some other things, for example. a container, one can either take it by rail, on a truck or on a ship, and one is likely to be able to transport it just as easily. Then we have to make sure that it feels simpler, more attractive and predictable for the transport industry to choose the keel or the railway. Just the support mechanism that the representative addresses, I have now myself pointed out several times in my post – that it is part of our tool use to stimulate actors not to have goods on a car, but to get it on the cold. We've got a much greater transfer value than what we had hoped we'd achieve. It shows that this is an instrument we're going to use more of, and we're now also looking at the use of the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2608	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2615	The size has adopted the NTP and it states that the objective is to transfer goods from road to sea and track. The starting point is that maritime and rail transport is more environmentally friendly than transporting goods by road. The National Audit Service has examined the transfer of goods by road to sea and rail. The main findings of the Riksrevision are discouraging. The objective of transporting freight from road to road has not been achieved. Authorities have not been able to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime and rail transport compared to road transport, perhaps on the contrary, etc. It has to be a better arrangement for the providers if we're to get a change of this. In this respect, the Ministry has not followed up the decision of the Grand Duchy to facilitate this. Maybe they've actually undermined it when they haven't done anything about it. I call on the government to take action and ensure that freight transport is subject to active action, which will enable the objective to be achieved. It must stimulate. The goods do not move themselves, and the market chooses the most profitable. In this case, it's on the road. If we are to succeed in achieving the goal of changing the freight flow, it must be seized, and it is not useful with pious decisions that are not implemented. For North Norway, most of it is about goods by sea, because we have very little railway. This government halved the subsidy to fishing ports, which, in fact, in most of the fishing units in North Norway also act as freight ports. Therefore, it is very relevant to spend money on fishing ports. The Labour Party doubled this in its alternative budget. This is an example in practice of government depriving the coast. We have seen that, and it is incredibly tragic – not only the consequences of the transfer of the Ministry of Fisheries to the Ministry of Agriculture, it has become less powerful, but we also see it in terms of appropriations, and we fear what happens when the development and expansion of fishing ports is transferred to the regions. There will be no more goods at sea or increased value creation in the fishing ports as such. I think this is an important field to follow up on, and it is important to make sure that this too is developed in North Norway, so that more money is given to the ports that will receive goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2626	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2642	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2651	I would first like to thank the members of the Committee for their cooperation on this matter. The aim of the study has been to assess the extent to which Nav manages labour market measures in a targeted way and in line with the Storting decision and assumptions. The survey covers the period 2010-2016. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee considers it appropriate and important that the Riksrevision examines the use of labour market measures in Nav. It is absolutely necessary to ask questions about the proper functioning of the measures. The National Audit Office has identified several issues that need to be corrected and the Committee is concerned about the effective functioning of labour market measures. Storing and government shall facilitate a good, inclusive and decent working life, in which all those who so wish shall be able to participate. Nav is very central to the task of getting this done. Active participation in the labour market can be crucial for the quality of life, well-being and belonging to individuals — yes, absolutely crucial. Work allows individuals to use their resources, knowledge and competences. It gives a social arena, a place to belong, and not least work is important to prevent poverty. It is an overall objective of labour and welfare policies to increase employment and reduce social security. Those who lose their jobs need to move quickly to new jobs, while at the same time strengthening the efforts of those who have been outside for a long time. We spend a lot of resources on labour market measures. So the Riksrevision partially reveals significant weaknesses in the administration. The main findings can be summarised in this way: Many action participants do not come into work after they have completed labour market measures. Nav demonstrates to varying degrees whether the labour market measure is necessary and appropriate. A large proportion of users do not have an activity plan at the start of actions, which is a right under the Nav law. There is a lack of follow-up of action participants from the Nav offices, and there are weaknesses in government management and reporting of the use of labour market measures. The activity plan is intended to be a work tool to ensure that the Nav office is targeted and that the follow-up is adapted to the individual user. The Riksrevision believes that it is highly critical that such a central instrument has almost only been developed exceptionally in the period 2010–2016. An overall committee fully agrees with that criticism. We ask the department to follow the case closely to make sure that the law is complied with and the standard is complied with. The National Audit Office considers that there is a lack of follow-up from the Nav offices to the action participants. The average waiting time for people with disabilities prior to a measure is between six and eleven months for the most used labour market measures. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that the lack of follow-up here is critical. Early efforts are essential to succeed in getting people to work. The Committee considers it critical that a large number of users do not receive follow-up as foreseen. We now call for an evaluation. The outsourcing of labour market measures should be evaluated in order to assess the results achieved and the changes in the tendering practices put in place to improve the achievement of the objectives. I expect the ministry to follow up on that an overall committee here asks for. Lack of governance and a weak focus on the quality of labour market measures and the achievement of results in the way the Riksrevision covers is, in the Committee's view, critical. We spend a lot of resources on this, but the most important thing is, of course, that mistakes and shortcomings affect individuals when the measures are not good enough. There's got to be improvements here. I refer you to the setting, where the Right and Advance Party, on the one hand, and the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, on the other hand, have some own comments, but all in all, the Committee is united in its criticism. We believe that the lack of governance and the weak focus on the quality and performance of labour market measures are critical. There is also a joint committee behind the recommendations of the National Audit Office. So it's my hope that this study provides the basis for learning and improvement at all levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2680	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for doing a good job and for a thorough review now. It is clear that what we can read in the Riksrevision report is serious, where it says: ‘In the opinion of the National Audit Office, it seems obvious that neither resource use nor priorities in the management of labour market measures contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the employment right of social benefits and measures as foreseen by the Storting.’ It is important, as the rapporteur pointed out, that the Riksrevision does that job. What they are promoting, I would say, is an unusually comprehensive criticism, because there are so many points that are referred to as critical or highly critical. One relates to activity plans, which are crucial for those who are going into action, but which – as the rapporteur pointed out – are largely absent, as the Riksrevision characterises as highly critical. The same applies to the follow-up of those on measures, and not least waiting time before action is taken. Because it is a well-known matter that the longer it takes for you to be able to get into business, the more likely you are to be permanently excluded from the labour market. So the Riks revision says that it is highly critical that the quality and the achievement of results are little sought. It made me think about the treatment of Meldning. St. 33 for 2015–2016, which we had here in Stortinget in 2016. One of the proposals of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party was as follows: ‘The Government is asked, as an important measure of increased freedom of action and authority for the individual Nav Office, to review the letter of assignment to the Unit with a critical look and to replace the detailed management of instruments, with more emphasis on governance through the results achieved.’ But that proposal was therefore defeated. At the same time, the same rapporteurs presented a proposal, No. 3rd@item: inlistbox That's what we said. ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with the results of the evaluation of the outsourcing of labour market measures in the protected sector, in view of the user involvement and the results achieved, and to propose any changes in tendering practices for better achievement of the objectives’.» The rapporteur was also concerned about this. One of the things that pleases me is that it is now unanimity – an overall committee actually asks for what was voted down at the time. Here we are in one of the areas of labour market policy where there are political dividing lines. Because when the government implemented the outsourcing, there was no need for warnings against doing so, both from the disciplines that traditionally work in this area and from the political groups – among others. from us. There has been a lot of discussion about those measures afterwards, including: that some of the candidates choose not to have their own employees. Governments have been in Stortinget several times and responded to it. But I am very pleased that an overall committee now sees the need for a review of the experience, of what we at the time saw as an ideologically shaped proposal, which was not considered in what the Riksrevision examined the possibilities of improving the achievement of the goal. I look forward to the response of the Council of State to the findings of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2710	In this national audit report on the management and use of labour market measures in Nav, it appears that too many remain out of work after taking part in labour market measures. 75 pst. of the persons with disabilities who were not registered in a job before they started the labour market measure, were still without a registered job one year after they had completed the measure. Many do not come to work, despite extensive resource use, and the National Audit Office points out that better organisation and follow-up would allow more people to get into work. Too many people of working age are out of work. Anyone who can work and has health needs to be given the opportunity and help to get to work. The labour market is the main venue for combating poverty. High professional participation is necessary in order for the Norwegian welfare model to function properly and to be economically sustainable. Labour market measures are an important instrument of labour market policy, and these measures should strengthen and help participants to obtain or maintain work. A large amount is granted each year for this purpose, in the order of 7 to 9 billion. kr annually. Therefore, it is discouraging to read the report. I quote: ‘– Many do not come into work after they have completed labour market measures The Labour and Welfare Act provides varying evidence of the necessity and appropriateness of the labour market measure A high proportion of users do not have a plan of activity at the start of actions Lack of follow-up of action participants from the Nav offices [[...]] Weaknesses in the management and reporting by authorities of the use of labour market measures’» It is an overall objective of labour and welfare policies to increase employment and reduce social security. Since we became the government, the right has been concerned that social welfare schemes need to become more labour-oriented, so that more people come into the labour market. This is why, in the last period, an expert group was set up that went through Nav in depth and delivered the report ‘A NAV with opportunities’. Many of the findings presented in the Riksrevision report were also presented in the report to the expert group. The review at the time showed that the A, which stood for work in Nav, had become too small in Nav. There was too little focus on mastering and getting more out of work. The government therefore followed up with the ‘NAV in a new era of work and activity’, as the Stortinget dealt with in 2016. This refers to many of the same measures and recommendations that the Riksrevision makes in its study here today. The National Audit Office’s report covers the period 2010–2016. The report on lack of governance and on the weak focus on the quality and achievement of labour market measures are critical. Fortunately, some have happened after the investigation was carried out. The government has taken hold of many of the findings and weaknesses outlined, cf. Report. St. 33 for 2015–2016, ‘NAV in a new time – for work and activity’, as the Council of State also stated in its comments on the report. In the Communication, the government highlighted many of the same recommendations that emerge from the study of the Riksrevision, among others. greater emphasis on the quality of response sites and performance for users. Less emphasis shall be placed on the counting of implemented activities and action sites. That's what the action leads to, the result, getting more people to work, that's going to have a focus. When purchasing follow-up measures, clear targets shall be set for the number of people who will enter the job after the action. The government is currently committed to using ordinary labour more in labour market policy, with more use of wage subsidies. Training and qualification should be more closely combined and implemented in the normal working life, as it has proved to be effective and has produced good results. In labour market policy, it is important to build on what works and to stop what does not work. It's about a conscious use of the action sites. Too many people go between different measures instead of getting into a regular job. In improving labour market measures, it is important to develop more knowledge and skills, to get what works in getting more people into normal working life. I feel that we have a government that takes seriously the findings of the National Audit Office's report. The government, with its own review of Nav, has already taken on board much of what is recommended in the report, and I also refer to the comments made by the Council of State on the report, clarifying that the government is making clearer demands on Nav for action to lead to work, and that those who strive to get into work should be closely followed up with clear objectives and a follow-up plan involving both action organisers and Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2745	What is a person without a job? Having a job to go to is decisive for so many of us. In a master's degree in special education at the University of Oslo, Christina Wiig has looked at what it has to say to people with a slight degree of developmental impairment that they have a job to go to. She concludes that work is important for many reasons. Work provides routines and daily rhythms. Work gives well-being and community. Work makes one useful and a master. And work gives a better self-image and more competence to the individual, write Change in the task. We can feel that in it, all of us. But what Wiig points out is that those who need tasks that are a little bit more prepared than others are an important group for which we must have a good deal. Therefore, it is bad to look at numbers from this report, which shows that it is unlikely that those with reduced working skills will be out in another job one year after they have ended in actions from Nav. But it may not be so strange that they give up, as long as they have to wait between six and eleven months before they come out in a labour market measure. There is a lot that can happen to a human being for a short time, and especially delayed are the young. The National Audit Office's investigation shows that there are too many people in Nav's labour market measures for which there is no impact. When seven out of ten are out of work two years after they left the measure, it is not good enough. One has demonstrated that people often go on labour market measures without doing any special thing for why they should have that very offer. That makes it worse. People have to watch out for concrete plans. The goal must be that one through labour market measures sparks the spark of the individual user, so that they want to get into work. Going home without a purpose is difficult for many. Yes, it will be as Stein Torleif Bella sings about in the visa ‘Fortress Gutan company’, where it is called: «With internal work in a hundred percent is little won and little lit." Nav doesn't have any loops from New Public Management either. One has been more busy having good statistics than focusing on individuals. As a result, a collusion already exists when managing the Nav Storing Message points out that the Labour Market Action Management Model must be removed from the counting of the activities carried out, and instead emphasising the quality of the action sites and the results of the job seekers. I am pleased that a number of members of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV think that the lack of control and weak focus may have come as a consequence of the centralisation of the Nav offices, which suggests that the distance between users and guidance staff is too great. The center party has faith in the proximity to the services for most people. Building large government organizations that are far from where people live, I have no faith in. Nor have I believed that large units are the best for Nav, when it may be local knowledge and close dialogue with local businesses that are decisive to get people out of work. Therefore, I do not think it is good to centralize the Nav offices. We need the guides near people. I think one of the challenges is that many of the local action companies have been competing after the competition. They have had to focus more on how many places they can deliver than on quality and localization, which means that there will be lasting jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2769	Basically, we have amazing possibilities in Norway to create an incredibly good system to pick up people who, for various reasons, have fallen out of work, help them and help them come back. We have a comprehensive welfare service at many different levels that, at its very best, can make a big difference, so that we can really get people who might not have imagined a future in the world of work to come back. As many people have been involved, it is outside the labour market of a country that Norway is very serious. We know from disparate research that just being out for half a year, one year or more can lead to a worsening situation, mental challenges, etc. Outsidership accounts for too many people in it to get out of work. For Norway, it is clear that having a high number of active workers is important in itself. That's the basis for the nation that we have a people working. In that perspective, the report from the Riksrevision is striking and alarming. It is also the alarm that is now being sounded by both the Riksrevision and the Control Committee. The waiting time is generally very long. In some cases, people wait several years for action, with the challenges it presents. As in all other activities, it is about addressing the problems as early as possible – of course, before the problems arise, but then taking them as early as possible. But it's a little bit more of a rule that you're getting a hold of one late. Too many people don't come to work at all after actions, and they don't have an even activity plan at the start of actions. The follow-up from the Nav offices is weak, and so is the management and reporting from the authorities. One gets the impression that this is a system and a field where resources are used significantly, but where the quality is very low, where the focus has been largely directed towards counting the number of actions, not the quality you get. Then there is the big question – which this committee is not going to decide on, but others at Stortinget: What should a fundamental do with Nav as a construction? As Bjørke was inside his post, I believe the control model could be a side to it. We have reports that one has distributed green rugs to single employees because they have been able to get green light on measurement indicators for having carried out different activities, while those who have not done so have got a red warning lamp over them because they have not had enough production of things. Add to this the fact that complex tasks in this system, where production is most important, are deprioritised, that it is the simple tasks that are prioritised — possibly making complex tasks simple to produce. The Control Committee also points out that the launch of labour market measures has a very limited success story, to put it mildly, and that it should be evaluated. It will be interesting to hear from the Council of State how one wants to address this, and not least how one wants to address the evaluation of the competition, which we can determine – at least for the time being – does not seem to have the effect we had hoped for. These are signs of alarms at the highest level for those who are the most deferred in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2786	Labour market measures shall support the government's objective of increasing employment and reducing social security. Actions shall improve the job opportunities of participants and, together with enhanced follow-up to job seekers, contribute to the provision of necessary Nav assistance to users. It is particularly important that the measures are designed to qualify job seekers to meet labour market demand. The most important thing is to give jobseekers better opportunities to qualify for the job vacancies. The National Audit Office’s report identifies weaknesses in the management of labour market measures and gives us important knowledge to continue working on them. The Committee points out weak achievement of the objectives and that many participants do not come into work after completing a labour market measure. It is a clear objective of labour market policy to increase the share that goes from action to work. At the same time, we need to avoid using resources of action on jobseekers who can get to work on their own, even though the apparent results would be better. This is why we give priority to spending a lot of the response resources on jobseekers who are far from the labour market. The National Audit Office has analysed the period 2010–2016. After that time, several changes have been made to the content of the measures and how the Ministry governs the use of the measures. When the Right Party and the Advance Party came into government, Nav's management was just one of the first things we took the initiative to do, because we saw that the results were not as good as expected. The governance of labour market measures has been changed. Nav's freedom of action has been increased. More can now be done in their own direction. A major reform of the action system was implemented in 2016, with the aim of getting fewer and more effective measures. Unimpaired guarantees were liquidated and a new and comprehensive youth effort was launched in 2017. The Ministry has for a long time paid attention to improving the follow-up of users. It has to be, for example: always have an agreement between the action participant, the employer and the hub on purpose, content, etc. for the measure. It is also stipulated that the Nav follow-up should be adapted to the needs of individual users and employers, and that the follow-up should take place at least every three months. The national audit assessments are not based on the target audiences prioritised in the budgets for the period analysed. Available statistics show that all the priority target groups, which are young people, non-Western immigrants, long-term unemployed and people with disabilities, have a significantly higher proportion of policy participants than the average for jobseekers in general. At the same time, I also recognise that there is room for better adaptation of the individual needs of individual users, in the form of ensuring proper action to the right person. We can also improve our knowledge of which actions work best for which user groups. The Ministry’s management of the labour and welfare seat’s management of labour market measures has changed in the direction recommended by the National Audit Office. From 2017 onwards, the Ministry no longer governs according to the number of action sites implemented, but focuses on the results achieved. The Employment and Welfare Act has in the current year provided increased resources to strengthen follow-up work, including: through youth action, efforts towards the long-term unemployed and towards beneficiaries of redundancy benefits. The Ministry’s 2018 letter of assignment to the Employment and Welfare Act clearly requires reporting on the follow-up of users. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has been mandated to further develop management information, reporting and quality through the use of labour market measures, follow-up of action participants and follow-up of action providers. The outsourcing of labour market measures includes: clear performance requirements, and the outsourcing of the screened sector has been evaluated. The last report came in the middle of May. The Committee points out that a large proportion of users do not have activity plans at the start of actions. This is very unfortunate, as a plan of activities is an important tool to ensure that the Nav offices are targeted. This is a point I will clearly give priority to in the further follow-up to the recommendations of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2814	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2819	If I heard correctly, said the Council of State at the end of the follow-up to the competitive outsourcing of labour market measures. My question is this, because it is a unanimous committee asking for it to be evaluated and for us to have the opportunity to discuss the results of that competition. As I said in my post, there has been no lack of warnings about what is the theme of this national audit report, namely that many of us believe that putting such things on the market is rather stimulating to count the number of actions that are being taken, rather than measuring the results that have been achieved. I would like to see the Council of State perhaps elaborate a little – if, as I said, I heard correctly at the end of her speech – on the follow-up to the evaluation that has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2827	If we deal with the outsourcing of the screened sector – as the representative also mentioned in his main post – it has been evaluated. There have been two reports. The first report came well in 2017 and went on the technical implementation of the tender. This report shows that the tender was conducted in line with the assumptions. Then came the next evaluation report. It looked more at the content, at what was the result. It was published on 16 May. In general, it also shows good results that shifts to work have increased. At the same time, it also points out some aspects that need to be considered. So the tendering of the screened sector has now been completed and recently published. Of course, we'll go into the reports carefully to look at any improvement points, but all in all, this looks positive so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2834	That was the outsourcing of labour market measures, as the committee mentions, I wanted the Council of State to say a little bit more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2839	When I mentioned the screened sector, it was because it was what the representative said explicitly in his post. Of course, we are open to evaluate even more the outsourcing of labour market measures. We are committed to having good, qualitative labour market measures for all user groups, which need different types of action. Many evaluations are also made of the effect. We see that there are different targets for the different labour market measures. Some have a better effect than others. To the extent that further evaluations are needed, the government will, of course, meet the Biggest in it. When Stortinget wants further evaluation, we will, of course, do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2848	That is what the Stortinget is asking for, and that is why I am asking, because this is in a comment, it is not in a decision. I then assume that the Council of State intends to follow up the unanimous comment of the Committee. Finally, the last question: The Council of State mentioned a number of things that were said when the Right Party and the Advance Party joined the government. One of the things that was then said — deserving — was that one should have greater efforts for young people in particular, as the Council of State said as one of the special target groups. If we're going to be better -- it might also apply to the opposition that we're going to be better at measuring results than how much money has been spent -- I could imagine asking the Council of State, because it was in the focus when they joined the government: how are things going with youth and disability? Is it more, or is it fewer young people who get into bad luck?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2857	Let me just go back to the previous question, about evaluation. Labour market measures range from sheltered sector measures to wage subsidies. We may need to come back to what needs to be evaluated – whether everything should be taken or whether something should be taken. Something has already been evaluated. But we have to come back to that later. Anyway, I'm busy evaluating what we're doing, and seeing what works. In the case of young people, one of our most important areas is reducing the level of young aliens. We have seen that there has been some unfortunate development in the case of young disabled people, but there has been a positive development for young people outside school, work and activity — the so-called NEETs, which are referred to internationally. There has been a sharp increase in the number of young people outside of work, school and meaningful activity from 2008 to 2016. Now we see a pretty big 'drop' in both number and proportion. That's good. Today we also got figures that the implementation rate in high school is increasing, and we're all going to be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2864	One of the matters referred to by the Riksrevision as highly critical is that the activity plan has only been drawn up exceptionally during the investigation period, and thus may be a cause of weak achievement. The councils were also involved in this in their article. How is it possible that such a central instrument would simply not be used in a better way than the one shown in the report? Is this about economics? Is this about lack of competence? Is there any other reason why such a central tool is simply unused, given the objective of getting the most out of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2869	There might be a little bit of different reasons for that, but anyway, it's too bad that you don't use it anymore. That's also a right you have. That's why I said in my post that there is something I want to prioritise that Nav should follow up. Now, after each Nav ICT system gets better thanks to allocations from Stortinget. This will make it easier to put in place good tools for employees when they are to follow users in a good way. There is no doubt that there have been major challenges with Nav. That's also why the government had it as an important effort from day one. We started by setting up our own expert selection led by Sigrun Vågeng. Then we presented our own Nav message in 2016, to which Stortinget joined, and which got a lot of support and support from the Nav employees. We see that it's moving in the right direction now; more people are going from social security to work, and we're going to continue to both improve and simplify the hub, as we've already started an important work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2876	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2894	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2903	The Committee has gathered to a large extent on many of the comments relating to this matter. But the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have some of their own comments, which I guess they themselves will explain. Let me say anyway that there is no big disagreement in this setting. We are all impatient after this reform is going to work, that the guardians are going to get the best help, and that legal certainty is well taken care of. In 2013, the responsibility for Vergengend was transferred from the municipalities to the counties to ensure that minors and adults who are unable to care for their own interests were given a more personalised and flexible offer regardless of their place of residence. The workpiece shall not be made more extensive than is necessary. The reason for shifting responsibility to the statesmen was that this should ensure greater non-discrimination and better legal certainty for the individual. So we're talking about approx. 64,000 people who are under protection, and approx. 40 pst. of which, minors. The National Audit Office has examined whether the objective of increased non-discrimination and improved legal certainty has been met and has identified reasons for any shortcomings in the field of protection. This is a study covering the period 2013 to 2017. The findings of the national audit may be summarised as follows: ICT problems have delayed the implementation of the corporate reform. There are gaps in the adaptation of the layers according to the need of the verge-seeker. A decision on protective measures shall be made individually. However, the study shows that two thirds of decisions have a general design. In practice, this means that it is up to the individual guardian to carry out the task. There are challenges in the training and supervision of yeasts. National guidelines are lacking in key areas such as consent competence, personal adaptation, supervision and control, capital management and remuneration. In the absence of central guidelines, several of the counties have developed their own guidelines. There is little control and variable follow-up of management accounts. There are deficiencies in the management information and supervision of the county officials. The potential for better legal certainty is not being exploited well enough. In the light of the findings of the Riksrevision study, a number of clear recommendations have also been made to the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Government. That's that. take the initiative of the civil law administration of the State to develop national guidelines in key areas of civil protection, including: provide guidelines for consent competence and individual adaptation; ensure that the civil law administration of the State is systematically supervised by the authorities in the field of protection; ask the civil law administration of the State to ensure that the district councillors document the assessments on which individualisation is based, so that the mandate for the management boards does not go beyond what is necessary; assess, in cooperation with the civil law administration of the State, how the State can improve the supervision of the trust and control of the management accounts; In response to the Riksrevision, the Minister for Justice, Preparedness and Immigration strongly agrees with the assessments. I note that the Council of State will follow up what is pointed out in the governance dialogue with the Government's civil law administration. A Joint Committee supports the recommendations made by the Riksrevision and now expects the government to follow up. Due to delays in the development of a new treatment system and due to the increase in the number of minor asylum seekers in the autumn of 2015, there are still capacity challenges, which has led to a reduction in the requirement for individualisation in the past. However, the Council of State states that this is an area that will be prioritised in 2018. We have also been made aware in the Committee through the response of the Council of State that training for candidates is an area of initiative in the Strategy Plan of State Civil Rights Management for the period 2017-2021. One of the Riksrevision's findings was that there are no statistics showing how many, and on what basis some are excluded from military service, and that unclear practices of deportation go beyond the legal certainty of the detainees. Thus, there is a danger that spoilers who fight for the rights of the defendant may easily be deprived of the contract if they become too ‘brilliant’ to the authorities. We can't have it that way. Evidence must be provided and justified on the basis of the waiver of the contract. In its feedback, the Council acknowledges that not all objectives have been achieved, but emphasises that equality and legal certainty are now better than under the previous scheme. So we're on the right path. Finally, let me stress that the Committee is very clear that it is very important that the legal certainty of those under protection be safeguarded. I expect the government to follow up on the shortcomings that have now been pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2964	I'm pleased with the Riksrevision report. I believe this report is very important, and also felt that the case-speaker was concerned with many of the important points and criticism that emerge. For a long time, the Norwegian Federation of Devolved People, NFU, has been crying out for caution. Therefore, it is good that the Riksrevision has looked at the protection scheme. I myself have received many feedbacks and telephones from worried parents and relatives and their organizations as the leader of the Justice Committee. The NFU has pointed out to us that they know that in the criticism from the Riksrevision of things they are involved in, and join the criticism that emerges. So does the Labour Party. Unfortunately, the National Audit Service has not mentioned the problem of the widespread use of fixed protection structures. To help people with developmental disabilities promote their interests, preferences and will, especially those with a lack of verbal language, it requires one to know the person well. And if you look at the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Article 12, put one there requiring such knowledge of the person. From what we hear from the NFU, their members now feel that neighbors are being thrown into shelter and replaced with permanent shelters that don't know the person, or that you don't have a good chance of being aware of by the professional organization's framework. This concerns me and should also concern the monitoring committee. So it was said here from Ulf Leirstein that one is on the right track. Well, the Labour Party is asking questions about the practice of the protection scheme. The reason for this is that it is reported that the practice of the protection system leads to an outstretched disapproval of people with developmental disabilities, who are in reality without legal certainty. The aim of developing a new system of protection and the new administration of the law was to circumvent the extensive piece of legislation that one supposed to have found under the former law on protection. The NFU reports to us that it is the opposite that is now happening, and is experiencing that the situation has been exacerbated by the new protection measure law. I don't think we can recognize that. It's a serious challenge to legal certainty, and I want to reiterate that we accept a lot of concerns and feedback from parents and relatives on these issues. Therefore, I hope that the government will take the findings of the Riksrevision, in the deepest seriousness, and that one will follow up the recommendations, but that one will also address and resolve the challenges that I am facing, among other things. referred to in this article, with fixed housings. I know that means a lot to those who are relatives or parents, and who are also the guardians. So it's a clear message from me.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e2979	The Verjem target reform would improve the security of all parties. The result we see in the National Audit Office's report shows that this has not happened. Five years after the reform was implemented, there is still a code in the noise pescia we see. We see that the ICT problems have been major, and that the computer systems you've been working on do not have our operations. Among the main objectives of the reform was that she should give better individual follow-up. The result has been contrary to our lack of individual adaptation. It may be fateful for the individual. In the middle of the whole thing, we have to think about people who need the big community to provide for them. When the statesmen have over 20 billion. kr in funds on behalf of the users, says it about the nature of the values they have to fence over. We politicians often talk about the weak here to countries like those at the bottom of the table. It's, with respect to reporting, a challenge, because there are many of the weakest who will never sit at a table. They have more than enough to get through the day as he is. Therefore, it is very important that the recordings of organisations are taken seriously, so that we can get a defence that is trusted by all parties. We in the Center Party have often engaged us against reforms, because we see that when the state imposes tasks on the municipalities, the money does not follow. Here a task was drawn from the municipalities and added to the state, but the money has not been followed – or i.e. here.: There are no local authorities or the "Verjemsdielssetate" or "Verjemssetatet" or "Verjemssetatet" or "Verjemsetsetet" or "Verjemsetset" or "Verjemsetset" or "Verjemsetset" or "Verjemsetsetet" or "Verjemten. The Councils of State have basically spoken in what the Riksrevision has pointed out in its audit. It is high time that the Council of State took action against civil law administration and enabled it to actually follow up on the reform. In the Annual Report to the Government's Civil Service, the Director writes that there is still some work to be done before the intentions of the reform are reached. It's e.g. Votes to read the case of 90-year-old Gerd Thordis Tierud in Gausdal, Oppland, which should have lost over 400,000 kroner after the State of Oppland called her home without the family being informed. It is alarming when organisations such as The Norwegian Association for Developmentally Impaired My Verjemsreformen is a danger to the rule of law and human rights in this country. Animal waste is a gruesome example that shows that the reform has not worked. Better control, better follow-up and better system – all this needs to be put in place before the reform can be closed. The five years that have passed since the municipality lost these tasks have not been five good years for those who have had the system close to the body. Therefore, it is necessary that we take this seriously, and enable both systems and people to be able to help our weakest inhabitants. I am afraid that the goal of professionalising the Verjemsmålsverwaltung has also resulted in a longer distance between the objects and the individual. It has been less direct adaptation for the individual. I think there are a lot more things going on than they need. It is absolutely crucial, as many organizations point out, that individuals are given individual adaptations, so that one can come up with their wishes and thoughts, even if one cannot control the economy in one way or another.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3000	Initially, I would like to express my deep appreciation for the thorough work done by the Riksrevision in its study on how the defence reform was implemented. The National Audit Office has made more findings and the Ministry will follow up the recommendations in the report. The findings of the report relate to problems that are early established in the implementation of the protection reform. I would therefore like to link some comments to the reasons behind the found. The Vergemålsslaw entered into force on 1 July 2013 and replaced legislation of 1898 and 1927. Major changes in society have taken place since previous laws came into force, and there was therefore a need for a fundamental revision of legislation in this area. New law forms the basis for a comprehensive reform. The superfictions were terminated, and the task was transferred from 420 overcasts to 18 counties. The implementation of the reform has been demanding. This is mainly due to delays in the development of a new treatment system, an increase in the number of guards and administrative capital, as well as an increase in the number of asylum applications from single minor asylum seekers in the autumn of 2015. This causes, unfortunately, capacity challenges that affect the level of achievement. The Ministry has reported annually to the Stortinget about both the challenges and the consequences of this, in Prop. 1 S, for the period 2013 and until 2018. The challenges had consequences. Regrettably, tasks such as personal adaptation, monitoring of commitments and accessibility to users were neglected in order to carry out basic tasks such as the establishment of guardianship objectives and the payment of remuneration. However, I would like to point out that the reorganization itself contributed early to the building of competences by the management of the protection structure through stronger disciplines, and a significant effort has been made by the authorities in the protection sector to help address the challenges as far as possible to guardians and grievances. It is my clear belief that the legal certainty and legal equality of persons with authority are better now than it was under previous arrangements with municipal overseeing. However, the aim of the protection reform has not been fully achieved. To meet the challenges, appropriations have increased by 43 million. kr in 2018. The aim is to improve the capacity of the protection authorities to achieve the objectives of the reform. The National Audit Office’s survey provides a good description of what needs to be done in order to achieve the objectives of the reform. Several measures have already been taken. For example, the civil law administration of the State has developed new guidelines for the establishment of protective structures, dealing with both consent and individual adaptation. In addition, they have put in place work in the Vergemålsapplikation VERA, which will help to make mandates more individualised and facilitate an increased level of evidence of individual adaptation. The State's civil law administration has also developed an adviser for the County State's oversight of commitments and has drawn up a strategy plan for the supervision of the State's civil law administration of the county. A new management information solution has also been created, which the unit used in the autumn of 2017. As the Committee notes, training is an area of initiative in the Strategy Plan of the Government of Civil Law Administration for the period 2017-2021. It is foreseen that training is made available digitally, to reach the maximum possible level and to be able to adapt it to the needs of the forget-over. An important perspective for associations is the self-determination of the proprietor. A natural part of the training will be the importance of respecting the real will of the keeper if it can be identified regardless of whether or not it has consent competence. The Committee points out that there is still a need for clarification in the understanding of the law and that there is currently little case-law and ombudsman practice, which, in the Committee's view, could contribute to a weakening of legal certainty. I would like to point out that the law is still relatively new, and that practice needs to evolve over some time, for example. providing a basis for good guidance. Government civil law management has developed new guidelines and is constantly assessing the need for more guidelines. With regard to the Committee's comments relating to organisations such as the Norwegian Association for the Developmentally Deprived, I can confirm that the Ministry is taking on board these types of organisations with the utmost seriousness, and I feel that we are in good dialogue with, among other things. Norwegian Association for the Developmentally Impaired. Last week, political leadership in the Department met to discuss this issue. I want to do my part to further develop the protection system for the benefit of the keepers, and I want to contribute to the successful completion of the work by forgeries and others who work in the management of foresight. The National Audit Office’s study makes important contributions to the Ministry’s further work in the field of defence objectives. I will follow up this work in particular. governance dialogue with State civil law management in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3032	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3037	I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is in good contact with the NFU and has a running dialogue with the organisations representing the developing groups. Therefore, I think that the Minister of Justice is probably well aware of the problem – what I mentioned in my post is that we are getting feedback that the neighbors are now being thrown as shelters and replaced with permanent shelters that the people do not know. So I wonder what the Council of State will do to clean this up, so that we also get a practice that is more in line with Article 12 of the United Nations Convention, which I referred to in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3042	The whole purpose of the reform, when we went from 420 municipal head offices to 18 counties, was to professionalise the scheme, so that we got better legal certainty, and that quality requirements were met. There is still a new reform, and I think that all the recordings that are coming should be listened to – with regard to both proximity and understanding. But the second requirement of the reform is also important, namely professionalisation. This is an out-of-state balance. Of course, it is impossible for me to decide on the individual situations described, but that is definitely part of what we are going to include.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3049	NFU won, among other things, to us that the situation is worse than before, and that one is more concerned about legal certainty now — a bit contrary to what the Council of State said. When it comes to the practice of the law, that we are now getting feedback that there is an outstretched disapproval of people, and that it has worsened in relation to earlier, I wonder: What does the Council of State actually want to do to clean it up? It's a development that's not in line with the intentions of living in the new Verjemålslova, I believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3056	The representative is concerned with some of the issues that are not in the Riksrevision report, but to which I can in any case join are important objectives. I will nevertheless maintain that in relation to the previous arrangement it has improved. When a new system is in place, some entry problems and some legal practices have to adapt to it. A problem arose in the autumn of 2015 with a very large flow of young asylum seekers, who took up a lot of capacity. Now we're in a situation where we can free up capacity to work better on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3062	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3069	In Dagbladet on 17 November last year Kjersti Skarstad, doctoral student at the University of Oslo, wrote the following, based on his own research: ‘The new protection system would ensure human rights and strengthen self-determination and legal certainty for those in need of assistance in caring for their interests. [[...]] My research into the practice of the scheme in relation to adults with mental retardation shows that the interests of the protection authorities are largely ahead of the interests of the individual people in the scheme.’ Those are scary words. All people have the right to decide about their own lives. The researcher, who has analysed 167 defence cases from one county office, shows that the rule of self-determination is the rule rather than the exception. These interventions are also not justified. The contracting authorities shall ensure that the interests of the person under protection are safeguarded. However, the researcher shows that the individual’s interests are rarely defined on the basis of his or her own wishes or personality. There are no standards to determine the individual’s own decision-making competence. It often depends on medical statements that appear quite random. When a reader of the National Audit Office's report on the way the corporate reform has been carried out, with this researcher's description in mind, it is striking how much they are. The transfer of protection measures from municipality to state would provide increased legal certainty, increased degree of individualisation and flexibility, while the Riksrevision states that there are shortcomings in the adaptation of protection to the needs of the person seeking protection, lack of training and supervision, lack of national guidelines, lack of control and variable follow-up, and lack of legal certainty. Often the forger is his or her own family, usually his or her parents. Sometimes the load is so heavy that they can't take any more, and they ask for a new warden to be appointed. I have even been contacted by parents who have experienced that the local authority and the local authority have suddenly decided that they should move from owner-occupied housing to municipal housing, have lost the right to a user-controlled personal assistant, are refused to go on a planned holiday with the family, etc. The parents do not have the right to complain in such cases. The majority in the control committee shows, for example: to the NFU, which says that current practices threaten both legal certainty and human rights. We can't have it like that -- as Leirstein quite correctly said. The Labour Party has put forward proposals in a case on the rights of people with disabilities where we ask the government to bring about the necessary legislative changes. After the Riksrevision report, that proposal should receive a majority when it is discussed here in the Chamber on 12 June. I urge the Council of State to ask its party traps to vote for that proposal, on the basis of the statement he himself stood here and kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3085	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 12 and 13 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3115	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to five lines of response from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3128	Today we are discussing two Documents 8 proposals for negative social control, Document 8:118 S for 2017-2018, from the Workers' Party, and Document 8:120 S for 2017-2018, from the Socialist Left Party. First of all, I would like to say a little bit about the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights dealing with matters and conclude with some views from the Central Party. First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for the work on both of these matters, which is comprehensive but also very important. I would also like to thank the parties that have put forward the proposals, and thus put the spotlight on a very important topic. The problem is complicated and sometimes difficult to balance on ethical, fine lines, but has to be taken very seriously. We cannot accept that young people are experiencing the destruction of their lives as a result of the family or others wanting to control what they can — and cannot — do in terms of what should be free and personal choice for the individual. It has negative consequences for equality and for the individual's freedom. In the worst cases, there is talk of young people being subjected to gross physical or mental violence. I'm glad this is a theme that captures the parties on both the right and the left sides and those in the center. It seems that there is a broad consensus in the Committee to step up efforts against negative social control and honour-related violence. In the past, an action plan has been adopted such as: address the issues of negative social control and honorary violence. I believe it is positive that the government has already launched several actions in this area and is in the process of following up the action plan. Recently, there has been a lot of media focus on negative social control and honorary violence. There have been strong stories about individuals who have felt what it is like to stand in it and be exposed to such actions. I therefore think it is good that the Committee, although an action plan has been adopted, which is followed up by the government, can continue to work on the problem and that a number of different proposals have been made by the parties that are proposers. It also appears that some of these proposals will have a majority today, with a single committee behind them. The two things we have had in the committee have engaged all parties, and I look forward to a good debate. We all agree on the objective, to ensure the security, equality and freedom of the individual, although we do not always agree on the concrete measures to achieve these objectives. I will end by saying something about the Central Party's vote in these matters. We have agreed to support some of the measures proposed. Of those we support, I would like to highlight in particular the scheme of minority counsellors in school, the measures linked to the risk of children being left abroad against their will, and the clarification of parental responsibility to prevent children from being subjected to sexual mutilation. Where we have not included in the proposals, the reason is often that the government has informed that they are already implementing similar measures or investigations. There are also a number of measures we need more information about to support, and will therefore await government information. In particular, it concerns proposals to prohibit sibling childhood. I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3147	Would the representative like to comment on the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3152	I would like to address those proposals where the Senterpartiet is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3157	Kempflatt – then the representative Emilie Enger Mehl has taken up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3162	The underlying reason for what we are discussing here today, social control, physical and mental honour in different immigrant environments, is that we have brought old traditions and rules from the caste and clan communities into our modern democracy. In the caste and clan communities, large families choose which family they plan to connect with through the marriage of children, because it can have a significant impact on the family’s economy, status, power, etc., as their societies are organized. through marriage and later inheritance. These fundamental positions or rules are in stark contrast to our modern democracy and welfare societies, where the freedom, equality and the right to make their own free choices are fundamental. So it's a very big question that we're discussing at Stortinget when we deal with these things. I attended and arranged a meeting at the Furuset in mid-February, where we saw how this affects young people today. Surprisingly, many people, approx. 300, who was very engaged. They told gripping stories about how they experienced social control, how they felt that it was planned to whom they were going to marry, and how it is impossible, among other things. to have other layings in the environments in which they live. It has great consequences for the whole life cycle. That is why we have made 22 proposals, covering everything from common rules, national rules on common swimming lessons, participation in camp schools – i.e. growing-up conditions – to issues such as: certificates of integrity and non-obligational checks relating to marriage. I am sure that Stortinget, the representatives here, understand that these are urgent and important questions. The young people gathered at the Furuset in mid-February, the 300, have seen that debates have been going on for 20–30 years, for example. on sibling childhood, without it being concluded, but that one is going to investigate it further. It is impatient when they see that unfortunately, the main points of the government's action plan – and I understand that there are processes and things behind it – are things to figure out, carry on, secure, etc. So these are the kind of verbs: evaluate, evaluate or different variants of those words. It is to try to take the debate further that we have promoted these proposals today, and I am pleased that of the 22 proposals the Labour Party has made in our proposal for a representative, there are 7 proposals that we consider either from the Committee's position, or where the government has announced that they have been sent to the hearing, and we have promoted 13 proposals together with SV and 2 alone. I now want to specifically address the things that I think it is important to try to move on. I have that attitude to the debate here today that I think everyone has the goal of working hard on this, moving on and achieving something, that no one really wants to be brake blocks, and that everyone has the heart to this debate. So I'm not going to try to take anyone or run that kind of rhetoric, but I've been trying to highlight some points I think it's important that the whole Storting thinks through. First of all, a proposal promoted only by the Workers' Party and the SV, concerning the supervision of the schools of Quran and other religious communities. One of the things that was also taken up at the meeting I told you about at the Furuset is that children who five days a week plus Sundays are in Qur'an schools after school, to a large extent not getting successful integration into their community. Of course, it's different quality, it's different imams teaching at the Qur'an Schools, but some of the children are subjected to quite strong indoctrination in attitudes that are in the direction of what we usually call Islamist, where we talk about the unfaithful societies, and where we create divisions in society from early childhood, and at least many children are subjected to sex segregation, etc. So the question of the supervision of Qur'an schools, which we're dealing with in proposal No. 2, and which has the support of the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, is something I would like to be further thinking about how we should get started better, and get on with it. Utropa, the multicultural magazine, a weekly newspaper that I don't think suspects of having wrong views on the issues, conducted a large survey of mosques in 2016 that they wrote about in several issues, where the conclusion – and the researcher who conducted those studies – was that an important measure in return for public support that the Stortinget and the government should carry out is the supervision of the Koran Schools and that it is sound practice, without intervening in what is freedom of religion. Another proposal, which concerns represals, restrictions, how to enforce social control, for which unfortunately we have not received a majority, applies to children who are left behind, often in the country of origin of the family. There are five-six good proposals on which there is a joint committee position on that point, but that is a point I would like to make very clear to the Stortinget. When the Institute of Social Research examined and produced a report in 2014 on how many children were left abroad, the number in their research report, which I have not seen in doubt, was 3,285 children, approximately. 1,450 children in Somalia. In particular, Pakistan, Iraq, Afghanistan and Somalia are the countries with the most abandoned children. Last year, 61 children were reported to the U.D., i.e. to U.D. integration advisers and embassies abroad. The gap between 61 and 3285 in the Institute of Social Research report is important for the Storting to be aware of. I don't want to say that all of the 3,285 are having a hard time, or that some of them are not going to good schools, but there is also reason to believe that quite a few of them are not doing that, and are not getting proper training, which parents have a duty to ensure that they get under the training law. I'm worried that we can't go into it any more, because you often use terms like those that are left abroad 'against their will', but it's clear that children don't talk so that parents can be subjected to child protection measures, police, authorities, etc., so it's a lot for the kids to report this, even if they're left behind. I have even met children on the T-Bahn who have told me that they have been left behind for two to three years, without having been registered anywhere. So we have proposed a reporting system, so that we get a better overview of how many are left behind, and so that the embassies can check and make sure that they actually go to good schools, and get hold of more cases than the 61 they were told about. We believe that this is a very serious question, when we look at the figures that the last report actually showed. We have also proposed that the Child Protection Act be amended so that child protection can take advantage of their possibilities, including: through families, to address issues that occur in countries that have not signed the Hague Convention, where Norwegian child protection has several rights to operate. For example, those who have not signed the Hague Convention are: Somalia and Pakistan. I look at the clock, and there are a number of suggestions I would like to elaborate, and as we among other things. I don't understand why you can't go in for it. Once again, I refer to this meeting, and I can refer to many meetings with the 'innocent girls', which tell you how restrictive it is to be subjected to honorary certificates or non-compulsory checks before entering into arranged marriages. There is a reference to wanting to investigate, to find out whether there are legal barriers that can be used or not when it is said that there is no support for the proposal, but we suggest that we should ‘examine the legislation’ and provide legal protection for these women. So when the government or government parties can't present here to the Stortinget that there is actually such a legal protection today, why can't we ask the government to submit that it should be a legal protection? It's hard for me to understand and to explain to these women. The same applies to sibling childhood. I can refer to, for example: the argument from the representative Abid Q. Raja in an post in the Evening Post dated 20 February 2011, which I fully agree with, where he wrote: ‘I have considered the arguments on the risk of stigmatisation of sibling childhood and have read carefully other points of view that have been highlighted. I believe, however, that it is high time to put an effective stop to sibling childhood when we know today about the side effects and the increased risk." He referred to the health risk the Public Health Institute had researched. ‘A ban, although it will affect far more immigrants than ethnic Northmen – is actually for the benefit of the immigrant groups themselves’, wrote Raja in 2011 – it was the marriage law that he wanted to change. I'm going to come back to several other things in the debate, but I wanted to highlight these things first.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3199	The President then expects the representative to take up the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3204	I am addressing the proposals that the Labour Party is in agreement with the Swedish Labour Party, and the proposal that we are alone on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3209	The representative Jan Bøhler then drew up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3215	We have put behind us a very comprehensive and sometimes quite unwieldy treatment of measures against social control. At the same time, 44 proposals were made – I think so – through the Committee. There have been many different measures aimed at problems, which I believe, like previous speakers, all in the committee, and, moreover, in the Grand Duchy, agree that there are major problems for our time. It may also have to be said that the will to find fast, good solutions to this has sometimes exceeded the ability to assess the consequences, and that has made us have to get rid of a part that is well meant, but that I think would have some unfortunate consequences. But all in all, the outcome of the treatment we have had, I think, ends up with good measures to help those who are subjected to social control. So I want to thank the case rapporteur and the proposers for bringing the topic up for debate and thorough consideration. In the Council of State Sanner's reply to the Committee, one thing was pervasive, and that is that almost all the proposals that have been promoted, in some way either have been put in place, under investigation or in the process of being put into effect. We find again very many of the proposals in the government's action plan against negative social control, a high priority for the government in the period up to 2021. Then, of course, you can say the old lesson about turning open doors etc., but I rather want to take the other perspective, to look at it as a very healthy and good sign of cross-political agreement in this room to address the problem of a number of measures. The right, the Progress Party and the Left have their own actions on the list. We've seen the phenomenon of parents taking children with them and sending them to Qur'an schools abroad, a practice that gets very bad very quickly for the children involved. This is a practice we want to stop and effectively sanction, and we are very pleased that there has become a majority of more stringent sanctions against the parents involved, and that one, for example. may stop Nav payments if necessary. Social control is improperly linked to unreformed religion and ultra-conservative culture that is collapsing with our society. It's very difficult to grasp and understand what can cause a other peaceful and calm family father to hurt or kill his own daughter in a confused and confused opinion that one should protect some kind of honor. This unculture must be combated by strong means. Those who don't want to conform to our lifestyle should actually, ideally, pack their affairs and leave the country voluntarily. There's plenty of happy countries out there where they can find like-minded people. Regardless of that, those who are, on the other hand, victims and need help shall receive the unconditional help and support of society. Social control is widespread in many immigrant settings today, but historically it is not an unknown phenomenon, either in Norway or elsewhere in the West. It actually gives us an opportunity in this situation, because we know how to fight it. We've done it before. This struggle for freedom is to be resumed, on behalf of thousands of young people who want to do something as fundamental and of course to live free lives and make their own choices. So a little bit of proofing completely on the tamp. It was a comprehensive treatment, and we have to make some adjustments in the setting. The right hand party and the Progress Party shall not support proposals for Decision VII, a illustrious incursion has taken place there. We are very much in agreement with the intention, but we believe that by supporting what the proposal opens up to give some kind of recognition of the phenomenon of "religious marriage" as a legal concept of our own. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party has solved proposals, and we support the proposals No. 11, 12, and 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3232	Then it's registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3237	I would like to begin by thanking the proposers for raising an incredibly important topic. No one is going to take the commitment of the representative Jan Bøhler on this particular field – and that's good. For many years, the Progress Party has seen itself alone in raising these issues and concerns. That's good and positive, I'd almost say, that there's now a great deal of consensus on the Storting about recognising that social control and honorary violence are a major social problem. In these two cases, the Labour Party and SV promote a number of proposals for which the Progress Party has already been put into effect in government and which are already the government's policy. I am proud to have a government that has really invested in this area, and that has really taken action and taken this seriously, but unfortunately we are not in the target. It is therefore important that this theme is also mentioned in the Jeløya platform, and the answers from the Council of State clearly show that this is a priority area for the government. The Labour Party is impatient – yes, it has been the Advance Party for many years. That's why I'm glad we're so involved in this topic. It is with great concern that we can read that children and young people are being sent abroad against their will, perhaps because their parents are afraid that the children or young people will become Norwegians, and because they believe that they will be better educated or improved by going back to their home country. What is worrying is that we now also see that the children who are sent abroad against their will are getting younger and younger. That is why it is so important that this issue is now high on the agenda. It is totally unacceptable for young girls and boys to be sent abroad against their will, where they may be subjected to violence and care failure. Therefore, one of the most important things we can do is to prevent these children from being sent abroad. Therefore, it is also important that those in contact with children and young people on a daily basis, whether at school or in health centres, know where to turn if they are concerned about sending young people abroad. If they see that the school desk is empty for longer periods of time, it is their duty to report that concern to both child protection and nav. Child protection shall be an auxiliary body, but child protection cannot do anything without knowing about that concern. That's why it's so important that those agencies talk. Everyone is responsible for reporting concerns if they see that children are sent abroad. It is also very gratifying that there are several young people who dare to say so and who contact the auxiliaries. Many measures have been taken by the government in this area. We have increased competence by establishing the Competence Team against forced marriage and gender mutilation. We also have the action plan, which is followed up by the actions mentioned in the Jeleia Platform. What we're going to be happy about is that after many years, Norway acceded to the The Hague Convention of 1996, which allows us to help children who are in countries associated with that Convention in a completely different way. It is not the case, as Jan Bøhler says, that child protection cannot help children if they are in countries not associated with the The Hague Convention of 1996. Once the children have come abroad, it is important that the U.D. prioritises the work on passports and other things so that they can help them get back home. It is also important that we challenge the environments from which these children and young people come. There is little point in politicians talking about this, unless the environment itself takes it seriously and sees the consequences of being sent abroad to young people. That is why I am pleased that we have received a majority in favour of several proposals, which the representative Frølich also referred to: stop the payment of several public benefits consider more sanctions in cases where children are left abroad against their will continue to simplify procedures for the withdrawal of passports; clarify the provisions of criminal law which hold parents responsible; Finally, I would like to inform you that the Progress Party in Case No. 12 will support proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and SV, and proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. I would also like to address the proposal by the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left in case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3280	The representative Solvency Horne has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3285	Negative social control and honor-related violence are about oppressive structures that prevent young girls and boys from being what they want, and love what they want. It's all about everything from not being able to go to a party and meet that boy a like, to extreme control and violence in the form of being tricked out of the country and being held by relatives against their will. These repressive structures apply to all cultures, at different times, in different ways and to different degrees. It affects children born and raised in Norway with parents from another country, it affects members of conservative Christian environments, and it can take the form of the negative social control of minority people by the majority population. What's going on in all kinds of negative social control is that it's an outrage to people's freedom to be themselves. Therefore, the fight against negative social control is a universal liberation struggle. It's a natural continuation of the women's struggle we've waged in this country for a hundred years. And precisely because this is about extensive structures, we in SV have been busy listening to those who are involved, and to those who are working with and against this, when we have promoted our proposals. The message we have been given has been quite clear: what is needed is concrete and constructive proposals that prevent social control and strengthen the provision of help to the brave boys and girls who break control and who view this problem as part of the problem of violence in close relations. Therefore, SV has chosen to propose 21 concrete measures to combat negative social control. While some parties have held seminars at Stortinget and other parties have again competed for the strictest possible rhetoric and the toughest symbol proposals, we have taken action over words and promoted proposals requested by the victims of social control and by those working against it. We have proposed preventive measures such as extending the system of minority advisors and having probationary systems with our own minority advisors in kindergartens and kindergartens. We have proposed to extend the system of integration advisers at the embassies to help those who are being taken out of the country. We have proposed to strengthen the assistance for those who break out, by legislating the right to assistance in all municipalities, so that your address does not determine what kind of help you get. We have proposed to strengthen the housing and support offer, so that you have a safe place to go if you are going to break up with the family. But obviously you can't always take action over words. The Government will not support binding and concrete decisions on more prevention and strengthening assistance for those who break out. SV proposes 21 measures, and it is clear that 17 of them have not been taken into account in the government’s work. There are 17 concrete measures to prevent social control, to gain more knowledge and to strengthen the provision of assistance. Only some red-green parties support these proposals. This is disappointing, because it does not contain strict proposals, indexing fingers and symbolic proposals alone. Yes, the law needs to be tightened up, so we support many of the proposals that do, but without prevention and better assistance it will not help those affected. That is why we must remember that: government parties will not extend the system of integration advisers at embassies working with cross-border social control government parties will not extend the scheme of minority school advisers and have probationary arrangements in primary school and kindergarten the government will not impose statutory rights to help those who break out The government will not strengthen the provision of housing and support by assisting victims in re-establishment, for example: It is disappointing when one representative from the government parties after another has become high and dark on this issue for many years, but will not support concrete action. But we don't want to give up the fight. ‘The shameless girls’ and many before them are courageous voices that have gone ahead to carry out a clear anti-racist, women-relieving fight against social control and shame. We stand in solidarity with those voices. This is a continuation of the struggle of the women's movement, and we have always been united in that struggle. That is what we are going to do, and that is why I am going to deal with the proposals No. 9–16 on case No. 13, on which SV is alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3328	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3333	The right to control one's own life is fundamental in a liberal and modern society. The freedom to be oneself, to choose your own path in life, is a central part of becoming an adult. Negative social control restricts this freedom, mainly for women with a minority background, but it also affects children, young people and men. It is therefore important that we support all children and young people and build up under their awareness of their own rights. But we also need to support measures involving parents. For the family, as many before me have also pointed out here, is the main source of social control. Creating a forum for dialogue on difficult issues could increase the understanding of the parent generation and thus reduce the intergenerational lines of conflict. Those who are subjected to social control have traditionally not been those who have taken the greatest place in the public debate. But fortunately, over the last few years, we have gained more and more strong voices that have stood up with their stories. This applies, inter alia, to: ‘the shameless girls’, many of whom have moved forward here today. They've made us understand that it's about fundamental freedoms that most of us take for granted, and that that's why there's a struggle for freedom that we all have to support. Today, the repressive aspects of shame culture are well known in Norway, whether they manifest themselves as coercion, sexual mutilation, detention or other forms of repression. We know how negative social control is exercised, and we know a lot about what forms of harassment, control and coercion many people are exposed to. We are also getting more and more alerts, and that is very good, but it also demands that we, as politicians, should follow up with action. Knowledge of how social control places strong limits on the lives of many people commits. That's why I'm very happy that we're now in a time when there's a lot going on. In the two drafts that we are discussing here today, 44 concrete and well-intentioned proposals have been put forward for action that the Government is asking for. It is positive that there are concrete proposals, but at the same time there is a fresh action plan in this area, and I therefore believe that these issues will be a good example of how the Stortinget is now proposing a detailed regulation of the government which, despite good intentions, is problematic. As mentioned above, last year the government promoted an action plan against negative social control and it is valid until 2020. The vast majority of the important proposals promoted in the matters under consideration have already been addressed through the follow-up by the government to this action plan. But like previous speakers, I would like to stress that we should be happy that there is broad consensus, we should be happy that there is a broad commitment, and that we now want to work together to implement these measures and make sure that we actually get something done about the problems. I would also like to mention that several of the measures seem to be inspired by proposals made by the Left in the past. Proposals for the right to camp school residency came to Stortinget after we got a copy of the government statement for the same time. There is also agreement that we should not have sex-shared swimming lessons, but the most important measure to avoid is to move education to a lower level and to kindergarten, as proposed by the Left, and for which it is now open in the government platform. We also know that the University of Oslo is already in the process of establishing flexible education for religious leaders – after the success of the Left in the budget last year. In addition, I would like to use the opportunity to mention that the left last harvest contributed to the establishment of the Foundation Born Free, which aims to combat negative social control and culture of shame. The foundation works to settle the problem of unculture in all environments. We're excited about what it can do. The revised national budget also strengthens the scheme of minority school advisers with 13 new advisers. These are counselors who meet young people where they are and who can have a dialogue over time with both children, young people and parents. It is a good arrangement that we are absolutely sure will have good effect. Finally, with regard to Document 8:118 S for 2017-2018, from the Workers' Party, the Left supports the recommendation of the Left Committee, with the exception of VII. Furthermore, we support the solutions promoted by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3358	Freedom is a fundamental right in a liberal, democratic society. Most of us who live here in Norway live a free and independent life. But unfortunately it's not like that for everyone. And as politicians, we have a responsibility to ensure that those who do not have the opportunity to live in freedom are heard. Nelson Mandela once said, "Partly freedom doesn't exist." So when someone's freedom is restricted, it's an important struggle for us all. We are debating two different representative proposals here today, one from the Labour Party and one from the SV. The proposals are quite different, not least in terms of the extent to which an intervention wishes to take place. In debates like this, I think it is important that you keep your head cold and warm. We must ensure that the measures are targeted and can make a difference between them, while at the same time ensuring that the measures do not go too far and do not undermine the individual's ability to actually live a free and independent life. The debate must stay away from symbolism policy. Some of our immigrant population have grown up in cultures where many have a different relationship to equality than is common here in Norway. This could lead to the double discrimination of many minority women, both on the basis of their gender and on the basis of their ethnicity. It's unacceptable for the individual, but also for our society as a whole. They need us, and we need these women, their abilities and facilities. So we can't sit still and watch them get discriminated against. It is therefore essential that those who come to Norway have a good knowledge of Norwegian standards and rules and the duties and rights of both women and men. Increased awareness through good integration and inclusion of minority mothers in Norwegian society can be the key to combating negative social control, gender mutilation and forced marriage. I will commend the government for the efforts it has made. Especially happy is the fact that the Council of State Sanner has taken over the responsibility, and I have seen a lot of positive already. The government has put in place many important measures. In the fight against negative social control and coercion, we have to see both those who have to get out of it, and those who are doing it. Only then can we secure a society of freedom for all. Finally, I would like to announce that the Christian People's Party will support the proposals No. 7, 8, 11 and 15 on case No. In other words, the SV's proposal for a representative. In addition, we have promoted some of our own loose proposals in case No. 12, which I bring up with this, and the wording in them is slightly changed from what was outlined in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3373	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3378	The issues we are dealing with today show a broad political commitment to ensure that everyone in Norway is free to live. Many continue to fight for the fundamental right to freedom from violence and coercion and for the right to choose girlfriends, spouses and self-determine how to live their lives. We have a great responsibility to contribute to this struggle for freedom. It requires broad efforts in many areas, with actions in both the short and the long term. The Government's Action Plan contains 28 concrete actions, and the Government Declaration warns that we will strengthen efforts. The most important thing we do to prevent this is to help change attitudes and practices that legitimise negative social control, abuse and coercion. It requires, first and foremost, that the immigrant communities themselves and others who practice this are willing to settle and make changes. We support the positive forces through cooperation and grants to organisations working on this. I myself have met many representatives of immigrant organisations who talk about how attitudes and actions change with discussion and awareness raising. In the revised national budget, we propose to strengthen this work. The government has also promoted a bill that means that we can refuse support for religious communities that are defacing attitudes that violate human rights and freedom. For those affected by coercion, negative social control and abuse, it is important to ensure good support, help and follow-up. It requires an auxiliaries who see, understand and who can assist when needed. Minority counsellors in schools are a first-line service with special competence in this field and are easily accessible to young people. This scheme also proposes to strengthen the government in the revised national budget, with 13 new advisers. We also have a team of experts to assist, and the government has taken a number of measures to strengthen the competence of the ordinary services that meet with children, young people and adults who are exposed to this. Although we have a foreign service and competent integration advisors at the embassies, the opportunity to assist is considerably more limited when the person in need of help is abroad. It is therefore essential to prevent departure if we suspect that children or young people may be subjected to coercion or abuse. The government will therefore submit to the hearing a proposal to improve the possibility of seizing passports in cases where we suspect that children or young people may be exposed to this. We also launch a number of information measures in these days, which address both youth and auxiliary staff. The vast majority of the proposals that are being promoted in the matters under consideration have already been dealt with by the government through its follow-up to the action plan. We will further strengthen our efforts through our work on a new strategy for integration policy. I share the commitment that the Storting shows for this work, and will, of course, also make sure to follow up the decisions that the Storting is making today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3401	In the letter of reply to the Committee, the Council of State states that the Government will decide on a legal ban on sibling children in the marriage law and that it should be promoted, where appropriate, when there is better knowledge of the extent and when the Government considers that adequate health assessments have been carried out in this area. Can the Council of State say anything about whether and how much government is actively working to obtain more information in this area, and, if so, how long does the Council of State foresee that it will take before the government believes that this has been clarified?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3406	That was an important and good question. This is a problem in which many are involved, both in the political environment, in the scientific community and in the minority. The government's attitude to this is that our recommendation must be knowledge-based. We can't see that we have enough knowledge today to recommend any prohibition on sibling childhood. I think it's important in these discussions that we discuss what we want to achieve. Is there a potential health risk, or is it a restriction on immigration? If that's the last thing, we know that other measures have more impact. The setting of a limit on marriage is effective, and there are other measures that may have the desired effect. We're going to continue our progress in this work. The Ministry of Health and Health manages the work and is going to work continuously to collect the necessary knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3411	We heard in the debate that the Progress Party – cheerfully – supports proposal No. 2, point 1, from the Workers' Party, on the supervision of the schools of Quran and other religious communities. I referred to a report by the multicultural newspaper Utrop on the need for that. After a large study they had carried out, they identified among others: that there was an impact on children from imams who have extreme attitudes, that there is gender segregation, that no Norwegian language is used, etc. Will the Council of State consider adopting such a position, overseeing the arrangements in the schools of Quran and other religious communities as a precondition for the granting of State aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3418	Let me first give a recognition to the representative Bohemia for the involvement in these matters. It's important, both what's shown here in the hall, and also what's done by concrete work in a lot of environments and living environments. On this issue, the government is working with a common law for religious and life-viewing societies. We see that there are some challenges to such a proposal. We have, on the one hand, been concerned with freedom of life. On the other hand, we need to respect values such as equality, democracy and the rule of law. That is why we believe that there are some questions that need to be addressed, including: the relationship with the Constitution and human rights issues. So the question is, what kind of supervision are we talking about here? Is it reporting, or is it local supervision? Then such a religious community can sign up for public support. So there will be no supervision anymore. This is an important question, but we have to make sure that we balance it in a necessary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3429	I would also like to ask the Council of State about this which came up now in the debate, that they should draw support for the proposal that Norwegian laws apply also to marriages made on a religious basis. The fact that it was a unanimous attitude of the Committee, it aroused great joy, I must say, in the environment, among other things. around those called ‘insolent girls’. There have been discussions and quite touching stories – about men who have refused divorce from religious marriage, and about women who are still trapped in a life they really want out of. My question to the Council of State is: if there is a formal problem with the term ‘religious marriage’ and it is replaced by ‘foreign marriage’ – will the Council of State then recommend the parties in Stortinget, and its party traps, to go in for it? I agree with the intention of the proposal, that Norwegian law must also apply to the type of marriage that has been concluded out of court, and that you cannot engage in multi-wifery, marriage with minors, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3436	Let me just first say that the marriage law states that women and men have the same right to choose their spouse freely. Marriage shall be concluded on its own free will and with its own consent. The brides shall recognise each other's right to divorce. Under current Norwegian law, marriage must be made in line with the marriage law in Norway. What has been, and is, our concern with the proposal that has been made, is that it can also be seen as an acceptance of so-called religious marriage. What you're concerned about here, we think is taken care of within the law of the day. So it's not my task from Stortinget's pulpit to recommend to the parties in Stortinget what to go in for. There is something that the parties themselves have to decide on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3445	I just want to add that this is obviously not taken care of in today's society, because the stories that you don't get a divorce in the mosque after you've been granted a divorce by the Norwegian authorities are many and have been passed on by, among other things. The replay of the day. And if it's a problem that you can't accept the term'religious marriage', but in the proposal, the term 'non-marital marriage' is used, I can't understand that you have the same formal problem. If you want to do something about this, I would like you to look at it. I would also like to address another question. It was mentioned in the reply to the representative of the Central Party that the health consequences of sibling childhood would be considered. It's obvious that another side of it is that sibling childhood often occurs when the big families, the clans, have a plan to preserve the values within the family. Then marriages between siblings, cousins and cousins can be widespread in some environments, up to 40 pst. It was stated in the report of the Institute of Public Health. Does the Council of State see that side?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3452	There are none of these questions that are simple. I have great respect for the fact that all parties see the complexity of these matters. I don't think it's easy to conclude in questions about sibling childhood, because if it's the family plan you want to put an end to, you can go to tremencing instead of siblings. So we have to make sure what we're doing and why we're doing it. There is then one question of health risk, the other is more of the restrictions on immigration that you want to have, and we believe that there are other measures that can have more impact. But we're working on the knowledge base and we're going to draw a conclusion when we think it's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3457	It is gratifying to see that some of the proposals both the Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party have been promoted, started and worked with the government. Nevertheless, SV takes up 17 proposals today, because – as we can read in the setting – we believe that the government cannot be credible in saying that these proposals are properly implemented. Some examples of what government parties choose to vote today include: to acquire more knowledge and to strengthen the provision of assistance, including: through help in the rehabilitation phase and, not least, longer accommodation provision, the introduction of a statutory right to assistance where one lives in the country – there are considerable differences around Norway in this respect – the extension of the minority scheme to children’s schools and kindergartens and the extension of the system of integration advisers. Can the Council of State really go out and say that he is satisfied with the government's efforts when he votes down so many proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3462	I'm not satisfied until we have won the fight against negative social control. And I think we have a historic task of standing on the side of the girls – and also the boys who are subjected to negative social control – and we're going to win the fight with them. I have spent a lot of time on this after the government change, and I also see positive developments, including. After a visit to the Alna School at Furuset, where young people are able to put words to these difficult questions. They say right away that before they went to Alna School, this wasn't a topic. Møhlenpreis Sport team in Bergen also works well with this. And we work with them. Then my clear message is that it's not that we're satisfied where we are now, but we're working purposefully and concretely, because we're going to win this fight together, and I'm glad that there's such a lot of commitment to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3471	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3477	Thanks to the case spokesperson for a good job. There has been a demanding job in the committee, because there have been many very good suggestions. I am pleased, as my colleague Jan Bøhler clearly states, that we are some of a lot of these measures, which both the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party propose. It may be unusual in the last year that the subject matter has become topical, especially through the ‘innocent girls’ as they are known. And many strong voices, especially women's voices, have updated the issue and made it even more topical politically, because more people take the magazine from their mouths and dare – it must be said – tell them what they experience in their everyday lives. As the representative from the Left also said, there are situations, represals that these girls, but also some guys, are exposed, which are completely unknown to us. The freedom we take as a self-fulfilment is not really too many in our country. The film called "What will people say" – which I recommend everyone to see if they haven't seen him – illustrates in a very outrageous way what we're actually talking about. One may get hurt in the stomach of less, and it says something about the degree of seriousness in what we're talking about here today. As I have said, there are several proposals on which we have some. It was called that we're all mostly a few, although we're a little bit confused about the procedure. I think something that might be at the heart of the disagreement is the pace, because it's clear that when we talk about, for example. considering a ban on siblings, the government would have done so a long time ago. For the Workers' Party is quite impatient. The article that Jan Bøhler referred to, where Abid Raja spoke out, I think at least I'm two to three years old. I believe that one should have done well to have this assessed to now, and we also believe that the documentation, among other things. by the Institute of Public Health, is very solid, and that one of them should be in favour of that proposal. I believe that the Storting should make very clear demands on the woman who will receive state aid from the community's funds. Although the Council of State refers to the fact that of course a government can withdraw and do not accept State aid, it is a well-known tool that the government has used in the past, for example. chose no longer to grant State aid to the Islamic Council. It's an important tool. I think it's a pity, given our proposal for both supervision and openness of the Korean and other threat communities, as I thought it was important to stress, because it should be part of the conditions for getting state aid. I note that the Progress Party on Stortinget will vote for it. If that means that the government has a different policy than a party of its own on the Storting, it's a confusion we sometimes have, because the Progress Party gets to do something they want to do here, it seems like. But it may be interesting if the Minister of Justice – who was here, at least – could do well to see if it is the Justice and Defence Ministry's policy, since the Progress Party has State Council there. In this debate I also think it is important, what Jan Bøhler and others have said, that it is not about being tough in the rhetoric. It's about doing the right thing. I think then that a play like the representative Peter Frölich has had in the media before – that an optimally set should only ask people to pack up and leave the country when they exercise social control or honorary power over others – is, first of all, a powerful simplification of the problem, also because this is an international problem. It's not just in Norway that we have to fight this problem and this societal challenge. I also see that the Progress Party will vote in favour of our proposal to ban siblings. We are happy about it, but again it would be good to clarify what is the government's policy. I think it's a little special that the Right Party and the Advance Party don't want to support the proposal for the Romantic decisions that lie in the Inner. 260 S for 2017-2018, which relates to divorce. I understand the problem that the Council of State is drawing on, but I think you have to look at it a little differently. Such marriages are concluded, we know that Norwegian law is being violated in Norway, and we should note that it should be followed, which is also a very clear requirement from many of the ‘innocent girls’ we have met. I had hoped that we could get a pass on to that. In the end, when it comes to ensuring the legal protection of the girls who are being violated, there are such plausibility checks, I can't understand why we don't get multiples for it. If it is that a person actually has a law that can protect against it, and figure it out, it's great, but he doesn't have one, one today should make sure and be some with us in that we have to make sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3497	As head of the family and cultural committee, I would like to draw attention to two perspectives in this important debate. I would first like to draw attention to a group that is often subjected to negative social control, and not least to discrimination and racism. It's gay and lesbian immigrants. Evening post Evening wrote in 2011 about gays with minority backgrounds living in fear of exclusion, freezing, forced marriages and, in the worst case, honorary trampling if they stand up with their lay. Former mayor of Oslo, Erling Lae, took up the glove and organized the first debate on homophilia in the immigrant communities. He himself said to the Evening Post: ‘We have pushed the debate on gay immigrants for too long under the carpet. It's tough and taboo, but we have to dry it. I feel a special responsibility for it." Lae said that, which itself is gay. The famous NRK profile Noman Mubashir, who began his career as reporter for Migrapolis at the NRK, has stood out as a homophile. He said to Dagbladet in 2016 that the media had asked him to talk about this for over 15 years, but that he had not dared. He said, ‘I feared the responses that could come from the Norwegian Pakistani environment. At that time it was little accepted for homophilia. It is thanks and price a little better today, but we have a long way to go." We must remove prejudices and discrimination against homosexuals with a minority background. We know that people who violate norms for sex and sexuality, and who grow up in families that exercise negative social control, are at risk of being subjected to both physical and mental violence. The government has therefore established an action plan against discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression, the LHBTI plan, valid from 2017 to 2020. It has a separate section dealing with people with a migrant background. Former State Council Solvency Horne was the architect behind this plan, so thank you to her. The plan provides measures to improve training and information for minority counsellors and employees in housing and support services for young people over 18 years of age. The plan must be seen in the context of the plan underpinning much of the government's policy in the matter we are now talking about, «The right to decide on your own life». And in the new strategy for the introduction system, which the Council of State Sanner has been talking about, this is going to be put on the agenda again. Negative social control is about the right to decide over your own life and make your own choices. It's about equality, and that's my other perspective. This year it is 40 years since we adopted the Equality Act, and Norway is a leading country, but we have a piece left. In Christian conservative environments and in several immigrant environments, women do not have the same opportunities as men, even though they have the law on their side. There is a pressure to be at home, to care for children and not to participate in the workplace in the same way as men. We have great role models, but many do not have the opportunity to participate in the labour market even though they have seven years of university education behind them. There are strong sanctions when you break out. The shameless girls have put this on the agenda. The introduction of a five-year living requirement for cash support is just an approach to getting more immigrant women out of work, and not least a signal to environments and society to want women to learn Norwegian, to get work training and to be better integrated before having children and to receive cash support. When you have a child, of course, you have a choice. However, we believe that the requirement for living is for the benefit of children of just newcomers, so that they can go to kindergarten and be well integrated. Kindergarten and school shall be the arenas where mastering and the right to decide shall be cheered up, and it may be the largest arenas for integration. Action plans with concrete measures, laws and strategies shall contribute to the fight against negative social control. And we're not done – we want this debate multiple times.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3529	First, I would like to thank the Judicial Committee for a good consideration of this matter. It is high time that the theme of social control was taken seriously by people other than the Progress Party. For a number of years, the Progress Party has been all alone in making proposals and at all events dry in discussing these issues. It is good that other parties come after, but it is a shame that it goes too long from proposing the necessary measures until they are implemented. This matter should be of concern to all the parties on the Stortinget. Next time someone wants to criticize the proposals of the Progress Party for being xenophobic and extreme, the parties should remember that there is probably only a matter of time before they themselves will support completely equal proposals. The problem is that it's often too much time before the other parties come after. The Labour Party has been in a special class in criticising the immigration and integration policy of the Progress Party. It's also the party that most times comes up with copies of the earlier proposals of the Progress Party. Yes, even when they present proposals that are quite similar to ours, they at the same time criticize our motives for being dishonest, while their motives are good. This matter clearly underlines what I mean. The Labour Party went out loud with a number of proposals that they had previously opposed, criticizing us for not supporting them. A closer review quickly showed that almost all the proposals had already been put in place, and several of the proposals have previously been voted against by the Labour Party. Fortunately, the Progress Party has led the majority to scrape off the bad and unnecessary proposals in this matter and to promote new, tighter and more effective measures. For far too long, we've tried with more organization, information and understanding of unculture that we'd end up with. This isn't working. We must start to make clear demands and to make parents responsible who refuse to comply with our laws and regulations. In order to do that, we have to leave it with consequences for those who send the children to e.g. Quran schools abroad. By stopping payments and making clearer criminal reactions, we clearly show what we accept, and what we do not accept. It is very encouraging and timely that the majority now support such proposals. Furthermore, it is good that the demands of the Progress Party for almost 20 years, where we have fought for imams to speak Norwegian, and that there must be oversight of what attitudes are spreading in mosques, finally appear to have a majority. For too long, anxiety has gained in such cases, and in the meantime, practices and attitudes have developed that should have been stopped. What is not so pleasing is that the majority has still not fully understood the seriousness. The most serious and most macabre practice of social control is the sexual mutilation of girls. It is our duty to do everything in our power to avert such gross crimes. Once the Labour Party has gone so high on the path to social control, it is only sad and incomprehensible that they refuse to take part in the proposal that can help to avert the most serious form of social control. Not imposing mandatory health controls on children is a sin of omission. We know that there is a sexual mutilation of Norwegian children, but this is rarely discovered and never punished. In order to detect this and to discharge the culprits, it may not be optional to attend health checks. It is absolutely impossible to understand why it is important for the Workers' Party and the majority that it should still be possible to conceal abuse if the parents want it. But there is one honest exception, and it is SV, who is involved in the proposal for mandatory health examination, and I want to praise them for that. There is no abuse that parents have to face up to their children for health control. It can just get something positive out of it. It is, on the other hand, an offense to let the children be exposed to something like this without doing everything that is in our power to prevent it. Whose rights are most important: children's, who are subjected to gross crimes, or parents' – who will have the right to keep it hidden? The original proposal of the Labour Party in this case was with a few exceptions too tame, bad and out of date. But now that we have systematically cleared up what was unnecessary, and tightened up the proposals that were bad, this could actually mean an improvement – although it is a pity that the Workers' Party is not able to support us where it is most needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3552	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3557	I thank you for having this matter for debate. It's a very important thing. Thanks also to the case rapporteur, who has done a very good job of unloading us through this. I am also very pleased that today we hear a great deal of common intention to work on these issues. SV is committed to combating social control and honorary control, because children and young people growing up in Norway must of course live free lives, free from coercion and violence. We're not talking about this because we want to criticize immigration cultures. No, we're talking about this because we want to put the individual mother and father to responsibility. So it's not necessarily just a cultural critique that's in this, it's a criticism of the individuals. So far in this room we've largely agreed, and we've had a nice conversation about this. But when I just heard the representative from the Progress Party, the idyll broke a little bit, because I hear now that politicians, like from the Progress Party, are using this case of fighting against honorary control as a pretext to demonize immigration environments. They use this to generalize cultures that practice violence and coercion. They use descriptions of social control and honorary violence to draw a picture of immigration cultures they have nothing to do with. It's a well-known strategy that we find in the outer right environments of Europe. The resistance to immigration is promoted by drawing a demonic image of immigrants as a group, and then also by demonstrating their cultural practices. It is understood that immigrants bring with them a culture of violence, rape and crime. I think they should be too good for this. I believe the fight against social control and honorary violence is about protection. It's essential. There shall be no metadebat on immigration. What it is actually about is not necessarily culture, but fathers and mothers who experience Norwegian society and majority culture as a threat – not a culture of fathers and mothers who protect their children with coercion, fathers and mothers who punish their children physically and mentally whose standards are violated, or grandparents and uncles in other countries who put pressure on their families. Our proposals are not about focusing on a different culture, but about safeguarding fundamental human rights and fundamental freedom. We put in our proposals emphasis on post-protection, follow-up of the whole family, but also fundamental measures to be taken by the police. It is the individuals who have to be responsible – not the culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3568	It is very important that we take this debate, and so have I in the past. We have to talk about there are some girls and boys who don't experience the freedom they're going to have. It could even be about serious crime. For three years I was so lucky to work closely with young people and their families. I was the leader and initiator of the project ‘A question of honour?’ in the conflict council in Trøndelag. One day I woke up to a shocking novelty. A young woman was killed by her husband, and they were both part of the project in the conflict council. Threats of violence, killing and social control are serious instruments. A 17-year-old girl told me that her own mother threatened her that if the family knew that she had a girlfriend, the father would take her out into the woods. She literally trembled, for she had just got herself a girlfriend. The dialogue gave her greater freedom. My experience is that change is possible. How, in general, are we going to combat this problem? I think that the fact that we're here today and are free to talk about this happening, and not pushing it under the carpet, is an important starting point. From that point of view, young people who are exposed to this can take the leaf out of their mouths and dry to go towards a freer life. Without the decision of the individual, the fight against social control becomes difficult. So the system has to be ready to accept. There is a mature field of honor-related violence and social control over time. The last action plan on honour-related violence and social control presented by the government in 2017. It is clearly stated in the Jeløya platform that negative social control should be given high priority. We work, among others. by prohibiting departures where children are sent abroad against their will, we are taking action to ensure that children are sent to schools abroad against their will, we support organisations working to strengthen minority women's rights, and we are working with legislation to ensure that divorce under Norwegian law is respected by the religious communities. These are just a few examples of government work, and today's debate, fortunately, shows that all parties agree that negative social control is a phenomenon that we are going to fight down in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3587	I will continue to address the concrete, important proposals we are discussing here today, and not start with any general characteristics of different parties. The first thing I mentioned in my first post was that you use the term children who are left abroad ‘against their will’. I noticed it in the post from both the representative Horne and Angell Gimse now as well. I think it's important to note what I told you about in the report of the Institute of Social Research, about 3,285 children who are left abroad, of course, in quite different situations many of them, while there are 61 registered by our foreign stations. We should try to close the gap with knowledge of how to do it as much as possible, because there are probably far more people who need help than those we get to know about are left behind against their will, and the 61 who are registered. For example, in the film of Iram Haq, we saw how difficult it is for child protection itself, even when sitting in conversations, to find out what is ‘against its will’. So we need to know about the situation of these children and take them seriously even if we don't get to know it, and they don't say it. That's why we have proposals for an approach where we get to report on everyone who gets lost and gets left behind, trying to figure out how everyone is doing. That is why our proposal on the Child Protection Act is also important. The representative Horne said that it is not the case that child protection cannot help children in countries not associated with the Hague Convention. That is not the point of the proposal. The aim of the proposal is that child protection should do what is possible to help children in countries not associated with the Hague Convention. We know that it is possible to do things through the family and so on. whether children are left in Somalia or Pakistan or in countries that have not signed. That is what the proposal is about: obligation and to do what is possible to help children in those countries as well. I would also like to mention the proposal relating to what is called ‘religious marriage’, i.e. the proposal for Decision VII. I would like to hear a comment from the parties in Stortinget if we replaced ‘religious marriage’ with the words ‘foreign marriage’, because the argument here in the Chamber and from the Council of State was that it would not be acceptable to the term ‘religious marriage’, if one could then support the proposal, as was said to have been supported by an incursion because of the concept practice. If there are other reasons for that, the matter is different, but if only, I would have hoped that we could make that change in the proposal and get it adopted, which many in the exposed environments would appreciate very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3600	I have to say that I am responding to the contribution of the representative Eide, who accuses the Progress Party in this matter of drawing an immigration card. If there are people who have really put social control, honor and coercion on the agenda, it is the Progress Party. I'm very pleased with the work and the things we've managed to get through on these four years of government, and what we've also got into the Jeleya platform. To say that this isn't about culture is simply to bomb. It's about the parents, the parents' responsibilities and duty to care for their children and not expose them to violence and abuse. But exactly this is also about culture. I am pleased that we have now also been shown that the government parties are impatient and that there are several proposals that are now being adopted here today. We already have – to mention something – tightened on the right to child protection amending the Children’s Act so that it is now necessary to require the consent of children over 12 years of age to travel or move abroad It's a little month until school ends, and I think there's a lot of kids out there who worry about where they're going on vacation, and what's going on on vacation. It is important that teachers who are now concerned about some of the students, or whether they have friends that they are concerned about, report. In this way, child protection can take action and put the family under supervision. There are several measures that can help these children. It is also true, as the representative of Bohemia says, that it is «against his will»: Yes, we know that now there are children who travel to their parents' homeland, know peace and no danger and do not know what awaits them. It's important that we also think about it. That's why it's the desk that's empty when school starts again, which is so important that school management around the municipalities where this challenge comes up, actually puts on the agenda and sees what they can do, and reports on concerns. There are also several measures in place, which now have a majority, which I am very pleased to have put in place more sanctions against parents and not least what is going on in criminal proceedings if necessary. It's an important matter we're debating now. The most important thing we can do is to prevent, that everyone has a responsibility to report if they are concerned, that the police and child protection cooperate if necessary to intervene, and not least to help those who come back. In the case of – very briefly – sibling childhood, the Progress Party promoted proposals for the first time in 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3626	We do not have a better society than the fact that many young people grow up in Norway in 2018, strongly limited by primitive attitudes that unfortunately exist in the parental regeneration and in parts of the immigrant communities of which they are part. Either that's the right to have a sex life, to find love, to marry who you want or to live out your legation, there's a lot of people who experience what we call social control. I think ‘social control’ is a mild expression to describe the worst cases of mental torture, the links and the abuses that unfortunately some young people, especially with migrant backgrounds, experience in Norway today. These abuses take place for a single reason, and it is that a good number of people still live in Norway who want these customs to exist, which wants such restrictions to be imposed on a free life. We are only getting rid of what we are politically agreeing to get away, namely negative social control, the day it no longer lives people in this country, and many who live in this city, who believe that these are good and proper customs. Unfortunately, there are often parents, uncles, aunts, siblings, neighbors and others in the environments in which you live and grow up. I am therefore pleased that these proposals, which are supported by many today, contribute to the accountability and punishment of those who want this practice. It is necessary when it is often parents and family, those who are to be the very security of one's life, who in many ways become one's worst enemy. I heard the representative Eide question the intentions of the Progress Party by saying that my party both demonizes and has nothing to do with a good number of immigrant groups. I strongly disagree with that, but I believe that you should both demonize and have nothing to do with those who support these customs, until the day we don't have a single person in Norway, a single youth in Norway, who lives with the kind of restrictions that many people experience. There are very different levels of these restrictions, but nevertheless these are strong restrictions on the freedom of people, and such unculture must be demonized. Fortunately, we have come to the conclusion that political correctness and fear of dragging people from other cultures on their toes no longer stop us from fighting these customs, as there should have been much greater political attention around many years ago. As my colleague, Mr Solveig Horne, said, several of these proposals were promoted by the Progress Party 14-15 years ago. I am pleased that today we have these proposals on the table, and that many of them will be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3635	I am also very happy that the proposals we are dealing with today are timely. These include: proposals made by the Labour Party and SV. I would also like to include a part of what Guro Angell Gimse mentioned in the debate, because the role of the police and the conflict councils is very central and important in what we are now discussing. It was actually at one of my first meetings with the conflict council in Trøndelag that I met Guro Angell Gimse when she worked in the conflict council, and I think that both myself and others from the other party were deeply impressed by the work that one did in the project that Angell Gimse refers to. In this context, I am concerned about the future of the conflict councils. I think it is important that we strengthen them, and that we should be careful to centralize too much of what has been signaled that it can be done. I read a book not long ago called 'Norwegian states', written by Steele Ekland. He followed the work of the Stovner Police Station for one year from inside, and there he shows. to the important bulwark work that the police are doing in preventing social control, honor-related power, elected in close relations. I don't want to go into that debate, necessarily, whether this is a culture or not. I mean, it's simply about unculture, and it's unwanted in Norway. I think it's important that we strengthen both the possibility, the capacity and the ability of the police to prevent even more than it might be today. Therefore, I could imagine that the Minister of Justice, who is in the Chamber, took part in the debate, because I think it is part of his portfolio that is relevant. I would also like to know if it is such that the Minister of Justice from the Progress Party agrees with the Progress Party today in the vote. I thought it would be neat to know, or if there's another usage for it. Finally, when it comes to arranged marriages that come under intense mental pressure, the behavior of the Workers' Party is crystal clear. It should count as a forced marriage. I would like us to be even clearer about it, but I am pleased that the government will meet us and have a review and look at the law. That's what I think is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3649	It's very often surprising, when you've said something from this pulpit, how someone interprets it. First of all, it's strange that SV now says it has nothing to do with culture, when all the other parties mention that it's just about culture. Now we were confirmed that the Workers' Party also believes that this is an unculture that we want to combat. How the representative Eide can manage to conclude that, in my post, I have cut all the immigrants over one comb and charged them with bringing in violence, rape and crime, when, throughout my entire post, I did not mention any of the three words, I find it strange. I pointed out three concrete challenges that all the parties are concerned with. It went to parents who sent children abroad to Qur'an schools, it was sexual mutilation, it was Quran schools, and I was even able to boast of SV. And then you get the reprimand back, which is completely wrong. I suspect that the representative has not responded very well to what I said. There have been questions as to whether we can support proposals for Decision VII by changing the words of ‘non-judicial’. Then I believe that those who have promoted the proposal, and still stand for it, must read through the proposal once more. Because it says: ‘The government is asking the government to submit legislative proposals that a divorce under Norwegian law must be deemed to apply to all residents of the country, including those who have entered into a religious marriage.’ The first part of the proposal says that Norwegian law applies to everyone, and today Norwegian law applies to everyone. It is not today a code of religious marriage, nor should we have a code of religious marriage. It should be the marriage law that applies to everyone – as it is today. If you do not comply with it, yes, you are breaking Norwegian law, and then it must be persecuted in the usual way. It doesn't get any better if you change the words from ‘religious marriage’ to ‘non-marital marriage’ – it actually gets even worse. That we're going to introduce rules for extramarital marriages, violates any logic, and we just can't agree to that. The best thing we can do in that particular question is to assert emphatically that in Norway, the marriage law applies – nothing else. That is why we cannot support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3664	It's something that moves a little bit further when the Progress Party constantly repeats that they've been a lonely champion, a lonely knight, who's sailed down the horizon, the only ones who've been occupied by negative social control, because it's disrespectful to all those who've been in this fight for so long, and it's demonstrably wrong. If you ask those who work on this in practice, they will hardly agree with that description. Just ask the crisis center movement, a very good example of some of the heroes who are in this fight every single day. They're doing this in practice. They meet the victims of negative social control, and they meet the victims of honor-related violence every day. SV has fought for crisis centres as long as SV has existed, yes, as long as crisis centres have existed. It was our people who were involved in forming the crisis center movement, and we have fought for the crisis center movement and the crisis centers of this day. Often it is also against the votes of the Progress Party – for example. today. We are just proposing to give crisis centres mandates to help victims of negative social control and honour-related violence and also to help them in a re-establishment phase. But it will be put to the vote, with the votes of the Progress Party. So there was so much credibility for the lonely knight who sailed down the horizon. SV has fought against violence in close relations before other parties once acknowledged that there was a political problem – because there was something that happened between the families, something that happened in the individual home, it was not to be interfered with, at least not a party that is opposed to public intervention and regulation. In 2001, for example, Inga Marte Thorkildsen sat in the Justice Committee and promoted a number of good proposals on police investigation of violence in close relations and shifted the debate significantly in the right direction. This is about for us this fight is colorless. That's also what Petter Eide was in the past. The fight is colourless. It's about structures that apply in all cultures. It's about equality. It's about children's rights and the fight we have to fight for it. But obviously some other parties are more concerned with the immigration debate. And yes, the Progress Party has been involved in the immigration debate for a long time, but SV has not come after the Progress Party in the immigration debate, on the contrary, we have had a clear fight against violence in close relations since SV was founded. I'm proud of that story, and we share it with the women's movement. That fight has often been against the members of the Progress Party, not with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3677	I put on the anger of the Progress Party representative in the room with my previous post – perhaps not anger, but at least irritation and counter-arguments. That was also meant, because I think it is important to clarify some of the political lines around this. I think we need both a debate on whether this is a meta-immigration debate – which I believe the Progress Party is leading – and also a debate on the use of the cultural concept. It is clear that when the Progress Party has, as they themselves say, raised various proposals to combat negative social control over the years, it must be read in a context of a party that has always been anti-immigration. How, then, are we to understand that this has not also been about anti-immigrantism? The Progress Party must take responsibility for how they are interpreted. They have to take responsibility for the impression they give. And the impression they give – and have given up over the last 20-30 years – is that they are immigration opponents. Why should they be immigration opponents in all other matters, but precisely in this matter suddenly be pleasant, kind and friendly to immigrants? It is simply not a matter of touch, so it is not so strange that I and others also see the Progress Party's so-called fight against negative social control as part of their attempt to describe immigration environments as environments they do not have anything to do with and as environments they do not want to be present in Norway. The use of the concept of culture is a little bit more complicated. I am concerned that it is the individuals who are held responsible; it is not the culture that is held responsible. Of course, it's the cultural trait that makes individuals act, but it's not like a culture has to settle. It's the individuals who are going to make a settlement. This is also about crime. That means it's the individuals we have to attack. When the Progress Party insists that this is a cultural struggle and not a crime policy fight, they move the debate away from – I kept saying – the police and crime sphere and into the cultural sphere. And then they do something else that's very strange: by blaming culture, they almost excuse the individuals who do this -- for those individuals who commit honor and coercion against their daughters, can't do anything about it, because they're just a product of a culture. Then end this culture-threat, attack the individuals, and hold the individuals accountable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3688	The representative Jan Bøhler has spoken twice before and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3693	In order to ensure that it is included, I would just like to say that the Workers' Party supports the proposals No. 12 and 13, from the Christian People's Party, and will vote in favour of proposal No. 11, from the Christian People's Party. With regard to the contribution from the representative of Engen-Helgheim, I was disappointed that he was unable to distinguish the fact that the marriage law applies to legal marriage, and that this is about the phenomenon of religious marriage. In some environments, this is very common. Religious marriages can often be concluded in the country of origin, where the husband has the right to refuse divorce, the husband has the right to marry more and may marry minors. This is a fact, it's a phenomenon that exists. So you don't want to let me tell you that it's supposed to be banned in Norway. The marriage law does not apply to religious marriages because they are not legally binding in Norway. But they're committed in the mosque environments, so it's really very difficult for women to get out of it, even though it's not a legal relationship. I think it's a shame you can't take the fact over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3700	My previous post was about the proposals we are going to vote on today, and which are important for combating many of the challenges we see. But it is unfortunately difficult to sit still when you hear the type of attack that came from among others. The representative Petter Eide in his posts. He called the Progress Party an anti-immigrant party. Well, there's a big difference between being in favour of a strict immigration policy, which the Progress Party has been all year long, and being anti-immigration. The representative, Eide, may not have followed closely the integration measures implemented by that government. Among other things, we were able to increase the number of refugees living in Norway at a record pace, which meant that people who had previously spent several years waiting to settle in a municipality are now moving faster and start their lives in their new home country faster. This government has introduced more demands, for making demands is an important part of taking people seriously and for good integration, whether it requires Norwegian knowledge and social skills in order to gain citizenship — one of the greatest honours I believe you can get in Norway if you move here — or demands for living in order to obtain benefits, which is also an incentive for integration. However, the Progress Party has also, every year, considered that the pace of immigration policy, the pace of immigration into the country, has something to say about meeting the integration challenges that naturally arise in the case of immigration. That is what we have been saying, and we believe that the time and the years have been right. I must also address what the representative Eide said, that no other part of the policy of the Progress Party is intended to benefit the immigrant population. Well, then I almost recommend the representative to go out and talk to the immigrant communities, for tax pressures, starting the business, health care -- all the areas of Norwegian society, which concerns all the Nordics, are equally concerned with the immigrant population. Therefore, saying that another party's policy is not meant to benefit the immigrant population, I respond. Finally, I would also like to comment on what was said about cultural struggle. Yes, it is a cultural struggle when unwanted and primitive customs that are common in other countries and cultures are brought to Norway as part of immigration. It's a cultural struggle that we have to take, and it's customs that have to be combated. It makes me extra proud when you've seen in the last few years that people from the most vulnerable immigrant communities – who themselves have experienced exclusion, either because they have broken their religion, have chosen to find love on their own or have chosen to tell about their own orientation – are the ones who are at the forefront of this struggle. It also makes me very proud that many of these have chosen to join my party to fight that fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3715	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3731	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3740	I would first like to apologize to the President and the representatives in the Chamber, because I have simply forgotten that I should make a statement as rapporteur. I have prepared a completely different article. I hope we can solve this another way. I think this is a matter where there is consensus on many of the proposals, and the intention behind the proposals is largely shared by the Committee. But I've just forgotten to prepare for a case rapporteur's post, so I'm asking the President for advice on how to solve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3749	The representative Petter Eide doesn't have to keep a long post. He can only say that he recommends the setting and addresses the suggestions he is involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3754	Yes. I then recommend the Committee's configuration and discuss the proposals SV are in agreement with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3759	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3764	‘It’s about prioritizing what I think is the most important thing – to combat child abuse.’ These are the words of Sylvi Listhaug, which was published in VG on 17 January. But the words remained. There has never been a greater distance between words and actions of a Minister of Justice and a government. The lack of efforts by the government is the background to the proposals of the Workers' Party. They affect children’s homes, police, health services, schools and kindergartens. The proposals will make it better for children who experience violence or abuse. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for most of these proposals. On the other hand, it seems that we are today getting confirmation that the government is not interested in doing what is going on. They talk, but they don't act. I repeat, never has the distance between words and action been greater. ‘It is a matter of prioritizing’, said the Minister of Justice of the Progress Party in January, but today the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People’s Party vote for the following proposal: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that there is sufficient capacity in the police districts and at the children’s homes to reach the deadlines for organised interrogation, to meet the increasing number of cases in connection with network abuses, to give priority to both child and adult abuse, and to ensure that the infringement cases are not settled after the completion of the hearing due to a lack of capacity.’ To vote against this is the opposite of what Sylvi Listhaug promised on behalf of the Advance Party and the Government: precisely to prioritize this field. Let me mention another suggestion that I am surprised at not getting a majority today: ‘The government asks that children in need of medical examinations at the Statens Barnehus have access to medical examinations.’ About 80 pst. of children coming to children’s homes, medical examinations are not available today. How can we be familiar with this? It's been a challenge for years, and the government sits down and says no, they won't. This concerns the smallest warnings, those who have experienced violence and abuse: infants, kindergarten children, children attending high school, and children attending high school. I wonder what the Minister of Justice thinks is more important than ensuring the follow-up and legal security of these children. This is a government that put forward a stepping-up plan that both the Children’s Ombudsman and UNICEF slaughtered and which was neither concrete, obligatory or funded, a government that has used it as an argument to later avoid coming up with new measures, a government that cheats with figures and made changes to what was in their own press release about a strengthening of 54 million. kr, so that it now looks like the bet was far higher, a government that is busy pretending to be doing something, but that does nothing. That's not how we get on, and that's how we don't help children. It was with the characteristics and the great words of Listhaug's monster play and her promises to prioritize these children. When it comes to it, the government parties fail. We now hear that they do not want to continue the action plan against violence in close relations, which we have all agreed on and agreed on until now. To that end, I would say that an escalation plan should not stand in the way of new proposals and developments for the benefit of the victims. I would like to ask all parties to think carefully about and support the resolve of the proposal for an action plan that I am now promoting. I bring up the proposals No. 1 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3791	The representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3796	Violence in close relationships is a serious crime, an attack on fundamental human rights and a public health problem. On an international scale, Norway is at the forefront of combating violence in close relations. Nevertheless, violence affects too many people. The aim of this government is that all homes should be an arena of security and care – without violence. This is what this government is working for. On the basis of what we heard from the Workers' Party here, that it is believed that this government has failed, and on the basis of the fact that the Workers' Party has now made a proposal to establish a new action plan on violence, I think it is necessary to recall what has happened in this area during this period of government. In 2014, four party leaders issued a strong call to all to continue or start talking about violence in close relations. Then came the government with an action plan against violence in close relations – in 2014. It was to last until 2017 and included a research programme on violence in close relations that was to be completed in 2018. Through the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, NKVTS, we have provided research on violence against the elderly through a national study that took place from 2015 to 2017. In 2016, we moved the effort one step up, as we, together with the Christian People's Party, presented the plan of escalation against violence and abuse against children. The plan contains 88 measures, which the government is implementing. It was granted more than 800 million in the 2018 budget at the latest. kr to the measures. We have presented an action plan against honour-related violence, with measures to combat negative social control. In addition, there is a new action plan against rape on the stairs. The letter of assignment from the Ministry of Justice and Security to the Directorate of Police states every year that developments in the field of violence in close relations should be closely monitored and that the Directorate of Police should report regularly on the subject. There are also many action plans against violence in close relationships around municipalities. There can be no doubt that this is a priority high by this government. It surprises me, what we hear here from the Workers' Party. It's very unhealthy. Not only does the Labour Party propose a new action plan against violence just a few hours before the debate today – they also propose a new escalation plan against violence and abuse and many other proposals that the government has already worked on. We have now reached a historic peak in the number of requests decisions in Stortinget, despite the fact that these are measures that the government is working with. We have an escalation plan with measures that need to be said to be almost the same as an action plan. You have to think about how to use the resources and what will have the most impact. Is it the most effective way that the department now sits down and creates a new plan, or does it have the most effect of following the escalation plan? In the case of children's homes, it has been a bit of a bet, and it has been important and correct. The appropriations have increased from 74,4 million. SEK in 2013 to SEK 240 million. kr in year. The number of interrogations has increased from 2652 to – in 2017 – 6 306. To come with a separate law for the children's houses and a separate organisational location – this is the first time I hear about this matter. I have never heard that the actors in this have raised this issue. On the contrary, children’s homes are a well integrated part of the rest of the investigation and should continue to be so. That being said, the police districts themselves should decide what is appropriate. Once again, we are witnessing an untimely detailed management on the part of the Workers' Party. We can't really join in on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3813	It is not so often that I raise myself above the posts of other representatives, but when I hear the representative from Westfold go to attack the government that it does not act to combat violence and abuse against children, that something is being insinuated like that, I take a strong distance from it. I also believe that the representative should be too good in such a debate to use words as'swind'. The government presented an escalation plan in 2016. The Christian People's Party sat down and made good suggestions that made the escalation plan better than the government put forward. The working party spent half a year deciding to vote against it because it wasn't good enough. Now they have managed to sit down and make good suggestions – proposals that the government is already working on. The government is criticised for not supporting an action plan. Action plans don't save the world. Action plans take time, and if we are to create a new action plan now, I am afraid it will take time from really doing something about the measures in the escalation plan, which the government is doing well. We have an action plan against violence in close relationships, there is an action plan against rape, and we also have an escalation plan to follow up. For the first time, therefore, a government has presented a stepping-up plan – a binding escalation plan with many good measures. Yes, it was criticized because there might not be enough money. I actually don't think there'll be enough money for this field ever, because there'll always be a need to do more in this field. That's also what worries me. This is why the government has focused on four specific areas when it presented the plan of escalation, in order to prevent it. Under this government, there has been a historic commitment to family protection, which is to work with violent families, in health centres, with over 1 billion. kr – they are among the first to see these families – and knowledge among those who work with children and can detect violence and abuse. Under this government, this has even been included in health education and kindergarten education. More has been provided for research, children’s homes have been strengthened, and medical research has been strengthened. It is also important to take care of children who are subjected to violence and abuse. I am proud to have been part of a government that has managed to put in place the Stine Sofie Center, the first center to care for children and young people who are subjected to violence and abuse. Last year the government received a report, a NOU called Failure and Betrayal, which shows that we are failing the children who do not have adults who see them and listen to them. That is why I am very pleased that the government will follow up on this. But the most important thing we can do is talk to children and make sure that those who work with children have knowledge, see and talk to the children and know how to act. Here are the good measures that are now in the government's plan for stepping up, and that have received a stake of more than 800 million. kr in the current year. And when the government has said that there is an obliging escalating plan to follow the budgets, it is natural that the funds come there. I want to give praise to the Left and especially to the Christian People's Party because they have been the proponents for getting extra funds for this field. When there is a minority government, it is quite natural that such budget negotiations take place in the open room, and that there is more money when things come to the Stortinget – not as under the Stoltenberg government, where all the fighting took place in closed rooms. If there is something that this government has invested heavily in, it is to combat violence and abuse against children — with prevention, more knowledge, repairing the police to do this work and not least treatment. But we're not on target. Every day, a child is subjected to violence and assault. We have to intensify the work, and I am sure that this is a work the government is focusing heavily on. Here it's not just about words, but actually about action as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3835	Violence and assault are a type of crime that is extremely devastating to those who are exposed to it, especially in the case of children, which makes the fight against this type of crime absolutely incredibly important. We need to work to prevent, to detect, to avert, and to meet victims in a good way when such crime has occurred. It is extremely alarming to hear about the widespread crime of violence and abuse on the Internet, and especially when children are exposed to it. It is totally reprehensible how many children are subjected to assault every day, either here in Norway or by ordering Norwegian citizens to engage in assault or assault from abroad, and that foreign children are then subjected to abuse by Norwegian citizens. There are areas that are demanding and complex for the police to investigate, and considerable resources are needed to combat such crimes. I would first like to say that I do not doubt that this is an area which is a priority of all political parties, and which all have an intention to combat. Last year, however, Stortinget dealt with an escalation plan against violence and abuse, and there was disagreement between the parties as to whether it was binding enough, and whether it covered all the necessary areas. It may also be criticised for being underfunded. In its proposal for a representative, the Labour Party has proposed a good deal of action against violence and abuse against children. The centre party will go in to support some of the proposals, but not all of them. Like in the previous case, there are some proposals that are in place, but there are also some proposals in which we believe that the government is in the process of work that we should wait for before adopting anything new, or where we believe that other measures are better to achieve the objective. The struggle is in any case wide and affects many different areas. As represented by Angell Gimse, the number of organized interrogations has increased greatly in the children’s homes – by 138 p.m. only since 2013. The number of child abuse cases is exploding, and there is a high priority in all police districts. But while priority is given to other serious issues, police districts must give priority to them. It's a situation that's not lucky, and that the government has to follow up better. It is important to ensure sufficient capacity in police districts and in children’s homes, and it is important to ensure that there is good access to drug-trafficking facilities across the country. In addition, the Centre Party is concerned that we need to coordinate and provide increased knowledge of legislation, such as: the obligation of professional secrecy, disclosure and the obligation to avert certain serious offences. Not least, I would like to stress that the serious situation in criminal matters is not particularly fortunate for the follow-up and rehabilitation of people who have committed serious assaults and who may be at risk of doing so again. I would like to end by saying that I think it is very positive that an overall committee has agreed to investigate an overall treatment and follow-up service for people at risk of committing sexual abuse against children. I asked the Minister of Health a written question about this earlier in the session, and he could then tell me that there was no such offer today. A 2016 report from the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress suggests that there is a lack of both low-threshold and general treatment provision. Save the children have arranged for a guide for people who have sexual feelings for children. I believe that the prevention measures before there is an infringement are important priorities and important to talk about. It's taboo to talk about pedophilia. It is at least taboo to seek help for those who have such feelings, but it can avert abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3853	Preventing and combating violence and sexual abuse against children is a high priority of the government. At the centre of this work is the escalation plan against violence and assault. I support the intention of the proposers to further strengthen their efforts to combat violence and abuse against children. However, I do not think it appropriate to use resources to develop a new escalation plan at this stage. This will delay the important implementation work that we are now doing well. I have given clear leadership that the work against violence and abuse against children should be given priority. However, it often takes a long time from the notification until the case is completed. I have now taken the initiative to review cases in violent and criminal proceedings before the police, prosecution authorities and courts. Both in the interests of the individual child and in the interests of clarification of the case, it is important that the investigation should start rapidly. There has been a marked increase in the number of organised child questionings, especially by vulnerable children. The proportion of organised interrogations carried out under the statutory deadline has gradually improved, but many children are still waiting for too long. The State Children's House has been considerably strengthened since 2013. From 1 September 2017, responsibility for the medical examinations at children’s homes is added to regional health establishments. The social pediatric competence of health businesses has been strengthened, and all children questioned at the State Children’s Home are offered medical examinations. Children and young people are not only exposed to violence and abuse from adults but also from peers. Often the abuses are committed by their own siblings, friends, and girlfriends. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has given Health West the task of directing work to strengthen competence and establish treatment provision in all health regions for children and young people with problematic or harmful sexual behaviour. In order to prevent relapse, the treatment of offenders under criminal law is also provided. The basic project targets sexual offenders in three Norwegian prisons. I want to put in place a treatment offer that helps to ensure that pedophiles do not reintroduce themselves after settlement. Prevention can't start early enough. Themes related to body and borders are an essential part of the training cycle in kindergarten and school. In the new framework plan for kindergartens, this is included in the subject area Body, movement, food and health. In the post-renewal of primary education, the theme Public Health and Lifelong Learning will address issues related to respect for the borders of others. A number of measures are now being implemented through the escalation plan to enhance the competence of the service provider. Developments include: a common national strategy of competence against violence and abuse. Cooperation between services can be challenging, and in particular the different rules on professional secrecy, information rights and disclosure obligations. They may impede the exchange of information. I have started more work to raise this issue. The administrative law committee is one. In addition, the Storting has adopted new provisions on child protection disclosure. An investigation of the different rules on professional secrecy, information rights and disclosure obligations is also on the steps. In my opinion, no further work should be started in this area. The proposals of the representatives will require extensive investigations and, to a large extent, tantamount to ongoing or planned work. Regarding the proposal to revise and clarify Section 25 of the Health Personnel Act, I have been informed by the Minister of Health and Health that the main challenge is not lack of legal access to information between the partners, but that the employees in the department do not always know or understand the legislation. Knowledge raising should therefore have priority. The abolition obligation of the penal code § 196 gives a strong argument to go further with confidentiality-related information. Nevertheless, there is much evidence that many more cases where children are exposed to violence should have been reported to the emergency services. We will now consider in more detail how to ensure a broad knowledge and understanding of the elimination obligation by either amending the provisions or otherwise. Sound cross-border cooperation is essential in order to provide good assistance to vulnerable persons and to detect violence and abuse. Important cooperation models are the State Children's House, the new support centres for the vulnerable and Project November at the Stovner Police Station. As regards the proposal for transparency of the parties, I have been informed by the Minister for Children and Gender Equality that the issue of the transparency of the parties and the obligation to provide information in matters relating to child protection will be considered in the context of a new child protection law. The rules on exemptions from the access to child protection are detailed in a new 2017 circular on child protection proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3877	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3882	Can the Council of State guarantee that the demanding resource situation in police districts will not be at the expense of the provision and follow-up of children who are subjected to violence and abuse and the work done by children’s homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3887	The issues revealed by the police districts, I would say, are a direct result of the near-police reform. One of the really great benefits of what we've done is that you can bring together skills, experience and resources. This is a type of assault, a type of crime, that the old police probably didn't have the skills to investigate. The roll-up of things that we see is constantly triggering new things – we don't yet know how extensive this is. That's why I think it was very right that the near-police reform was followed up by such a huge increase in staff and resources. This is one of the things that the near-police reform really shows its justification.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3892	During this fall and winter several police districts have announced alarming developments in reports of violence and child abuse. There was such a huge increase in this that the police in several places saw the need to resolve many cases due to capacity challenges. What is the Minister of Justice's solution to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3897	The steering signals given give a high priority to child abuse. This is done both through appropriations, which the Ministry of Justice and Defence has to provide, through a letter of assignment to the Directorate of Police, and not least through the directives of the National Attorney General. These are priorities. It must also be said that there are more cases than you might know, as the representative Eide correctly said. It's not necessarily because there are several cases, but because the police are actually able to reveal more cases. When we talk about these issues, it triggers new notifications and new reports. We don't know the extent, but it's very important that this still has the highest priority that it has.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3904	Can the Minister of Justice guarantee that he will propose a leverage to change this situation in the state budget for 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3909	There are few sectors that have grown as rapidly as the police, both in terms of money and in terms of staffing. Of course, I can't say what's going on in the next state budget. That debate will take place in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3914	The previous action plan on violence in close relations went out last year. Nevertheless, the government has not come up with a new plan. On the government’s own website, we can read that the action plan contains concrete measures, status reports and follow-up. The plan, as the government praises, has expired. The Labour Party has proposed a new plan. In the newspaper we can read Hoksrud’s comment: «In contrast to the Workers' Party, I do not believe that the aim must be the greatest possible paper mills [[...]] Then my question is to the Council of State: does he share the Hoksruds opinion that an obliging action plan to combat serious crime, among other things? children are to be regarded as a paper mill?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3924	I believe that the tool action plan is often a good tool for prioritising and raising awareness. But the result only comes when plans are implemented. It's not always the most effective thing to have a new plan to adopt a new plan. In the meantime, it may be useful to implement actions and priorities within the framework of which they exist. Then it's important to remember that there's something not in a plan, not that the police, the health services – or the ministry, for that matter – don't work on these matters. We have things that are forbidden in Norway, we have things we're going to knock on, and that's what you're working on all the time. So the representative Hoksrud has a point when he says that sometimes it's time to act, not to make more plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3937	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3945	Selected in close relationships is a topic we have debated a lot in the Storting in recent years, and we are of course some that this is not just a social problem, but that it is a serious crime, and that it should be treated like that. It's one thing I'm worried about, and it's that a field that's so serious and so important, we can't stop debating. One cannot because one has been in government for a few years – and I have also been observing it – become blind to the challenges in the field. Unfortunately, there is something we experience very often with this government, that if we come up with criticism, demand action, then a thrash on the toes, to say it simply, and the insult is to touch and feel. It is legitimate criticism that the escalation plan with which the government came to Stortinget was not what Stortinget ordered. It is legitimate criticism that he is underfunded, and it is a fact that he has been slaughtered by many. Therefore, I think the criticism is very quick and something one should take on, instead of being – openly – very insulting. I think it is important that one in the work on police reform ensures that this field does not lie under it. And we're quite disagreeable, I believe, that the police districts have been strongly strengthened in recent years. The feedback from children’s homes is dismayed – and we have some comments on this – that the case has grown so much that you need to follow up on both resources and developments. Norway is known abroad for children's homes. Knut Storberget established them when he was in government. There is a great deal of agreement about children's homes, it was a great success and important for children's legal certainty. Now we have to move on, we have to develop it further. And the suggestions we have here today include: we want the children's houses to be a separate unit, organisationally located in the police districts, and we need to get a children's house permit. It's not something that the Workers' Party has come up with in the hurry and the shower, but on the contrary, something that children's houses and many organizations are asking for. I think it's a shame that it's going to be voted down. That would be a very nice way to further develop the children's houses, which we're all a few of are good. So, finally, with an action plan: one may be a little fooled by it, but it's a fact that one of the best tools we've had against power in close relationships for many years has been the action plans – just as the government itself writes on its website – because they're concrete, because they're evaluated and they're followed. I think it would have been quite natural to follow up with a new action plan when the other one went out, and we really expected that to happen. There can be no surprise in the government party that we are making that proposal today, and I think it's a pity it doesn't get multiple numbers – also because the escalating plan was in no way the majority of the Storting in the previous period ordered by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3958	There is no doubt that violence and abuse against children and young people are a high priority of the government and of very many sectors of our society. After eight months in the Justice Committee, I see that this is a central theme in many of the institutions we meet, both nationally and in fact internationally. It's an area where politicians are busy, different etats are busy, and society in general is busy. It's about the most vulnerable group we have in society, the ones we're most happy with, and for most of us it's incomprehensible that someone will hurt. It's an area that touches us all strongly, and it's a challenge to deal with the extent of violence and abuse against children in fact, and how serious and careless many of the actions can be. I would like to highlight that a great effort is being made by many people to keep these children in the best possible way. All conversations with different teams testify to it, but it's still an area that we can't say exactly until we've helped the last child who lives with worries and fears about which evening, night, or tomorrow will bring. In many ways, we can say that society has failed these children and young people for many, many years. They have now been taken over by this government. And I wonder if the criticism presented by the Workers' Party here testifies that one might have had a bad conscience for own priorities in its time. The action plan to combat violence and sexual abuse against children and young people, a good childhood lasts for life, contains 43 priority measures and covers all children and young people between 0 and 18 years of age. The plan is cross-ministerial, with a stake of over 800 million. kr in 2018. Good knowledge is decisive. Competence shall be increased in all sectors and services to ensure that abuse is detected and stopped. The plan underlines the specific responsibility of public authorities to fight violence and abuse and to establish good cooperation structures across services and sectors. The action plan provides for a strengthening of the provision of assistance and treatment to electives in order to ensure that they are individually adapted to follow-up and treatment. Young attackers are also mentioned and will be helped to prevent new abuses. The legal security of your children will be guaranteed. The government prioritises this work highly and has started extensive track-side work to help children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3967	In this case, which in most other cases we have dealt with on violence and abuse against children and violence in close relationships, a joint committee shows how agreed we all are on the political effort to work against violence and abuse. But do we really agree that? In the opposition, the Labour Party has continued to promote proposals against violence against children and violence in close relationships, so no, we do not have a bad conscience for what we have done before. We have promoted it in the form of both drafts of representatives and draft budgets, but they are largely downgraded by today's majority. The excuse is all the time that this is the government already in the process. But if the government is doing so much, then where are the results? The number of cases has exploded. It goes too small, with both prevention, coordination, detection, victim follow-up, investigation and convictions. The consequences of a lack of pace are great for children and others who are subjected to violence and other abuses. The Labour Party has therefore proposed proposal No. 7: ‘The Government is asked to present a new concrete and committed action plan against violence against women and violence in close relations, which deals with children, adults, the elderly, vulnerable groups and minorities, and which is based on the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Violence in Close Relations, also known as the Istanbul Convention.’ Now most of the proposals in this case are about violence against children, while the convention is about violence in close relationships in general and about women in particular, but what we know is that where there is violence between adults, there is also any child in the family, either directly or by being a witness to violence. Too often you forget to check how your children are doing. The ratification of the Council of Europe Convention commits. The Istanbul Convention was opened for signing as early as 2011. Norway was in a hurry to sign, but ratification was slow. It took six years before we finally ratified in 2017, and then only after a number of requests from Stortinget. But ratification is not the end of a process, it's just the beginning. The Convention imposes strict requirements on Member States in terms of both capacity and coordination of actions across sectors and public levels. When the Children’s Ombudsman characterises the government’s so-called escalation plan more as a description of problems than a commitment plan, the government should listen. The government hasn't. Our proposals in this matter respond to our Convention obligations in a better way than the government's so-called escalation plan, but they do not receive the support of the government parties, not even the proposal to follow up the former Advance Party Council Anders Anundsen's own initiative towards Norwegian municipalities to mobilise the municipal emergency councils for active action locally. Then it is only words that stand back, not action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e3984	Violence and abuse against our children and young people is one of the most cruel things there is. We politicians have a great responsibility to do what we can to protect our children and young people. The Christian People's Party will fight for a warmer society, a society where children and young people can live a free life without fear of being subjected to violence and abuse. In the last period, the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal for a representative in which we asked the government to present a comprehensive escalation plan based on the model of the escalation plan for mental health, which our former Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbräten submitted for a time ago. The plan would ensure a multidisciplinary scope of actions, good coordination between different agencies and actors and, in particular, ensure a long-term commitment to increased funding and earmarking of funds. A total increase supported the proposal of the Christian People's Party. It is well known that the Christian People's Party was disappointed when the government came back to Stortinget with its proposal for a tightening plan. The proposition was a good description of the current situation, but it was far from obligating, and especially not economic. But unlike the Workers' Party and the Center Party, which would not negotiate anything, the Christian People's Party chose to go into the matter and work for a better result. We believed that there was an urgent need to put in place measures to prevent and avert child abuse. Most of the proposals that the Labour Party is promoting on the matter we are debating here today have already been adopted. I would like to refer to the joint comment by the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Progressive Party, which was expressed in an opinion of the Family and Culture Committee in the position of the Judicial Committee. The majority emphasises that, in the context of the submission of the State budget for 2019, the government will present a report on the basis of which to assess the economic needs related to the fight against violence and abuse during the planning period. This is important. We need to know clearly what measures are needed, and we need to ensure that we give enough funds. I look forward to getting this report on the table. The Christian People's Party will therefore not vote for all the proposals today. We await the government budget for the autumn and have great expectations for both the report and the budget proposed by the government. A good childhood lasts for life, but unfortunately it is also that a bad childhood can last for generations. So we have to work together and do what we can to help more children. I will report that the Christian People's Party will support proposals for Decisions II, III and X in the vote. We do not support that proposal by the Labour Party on an action plan against violence in close relations. The background to this is that the action plan against violence in close relations, which expired in 2017, has promised the government to follow up and to concreteise in the escalation plan against violence and abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4001	The fight against violence and abuse has been a heart issue for me for many years, including: through my former job in Red Children. That is why I am pleased to be the co-rapporteur for this draft representative with a number of offensive and concrete proposals. In order to prevent child abuse, systematic efforts are needed across different sectors. More knowledge and competence are needed, good practices are needed, and treatment services are needed for both offenders and those who have been abused. Prevention is an essential part of the fight against child abuse. Prevention is better and cheaper than repair, therefore prevention needs to be reinforced. And when it comes to violence and assault, we can almost not get started early enough. The goal must be a zero vision for violence and abuse against children and otherwise in society. The long-term consequences of child abuse can be very difficult to bear for individuals. Unfortunately, there are many arenas that could be dangerous for children — arenas that should be safe. In order to prevent and prevent abuse, we must first acknowledge that abuse occurs. And most of the abuses are committed by a child knows well. It could be Mom or Dad, the teacher or the coach. It is also extremely important to bear in mind that a large proportion of sexual abuse is committed by other children. It's not safe it's the monster under the bed little sister is afraid. There could be a big brother in the next room. And here we know that the treatment offer is not good enough. In order to achieve good results, there is also a need for knowledge among employees who work closely with children every day; knowledge is needed among health care employees — and not least in the children themselves. In our proposal, therefore, we ask the government to ensure that the work on delimitation permeates the overall work of kindergartens and schools. This is important as part of the long-term prevention of drug abuse. We ask for concrete action to be taken to increase the knowledge of violence and abuse among children, even in kindergartens and in schools. Mary-Ann Oshaug at the Incest Centre in Westfold has been a pioneer in early prevention in kindergartens and is an inspiration in the fight against violence and abuse. She deserves a thank you – also from Stortinget’s pulpit – for the formidable work she has done in this field. Over the years, we have also seen media cases of abuse that have occurred while the children have been in either kindergarten or school, stressing the importance of the fight against violence and abuse being also anchored in political and administrative management in the municipalities. As formerly rapporteur in Ski, I am proud of the work we started there – professional days for employees, awareness and routines for getting together with the children, dying with ice cream to all the stables in kindergartens and teaching facilities for children in both kindergarten and school are examples of actions that were taken. I am pleased that the Labour Party is putting this important issue on the agenda – locally and nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4020	We are now dealing with a very, very important matter. This is historically about a political environment that here has the will to intervene in the private sphere and regulate how family members behave towards each other. Historically, this is not obvious, because the privacy of the family has long been an area with which politics and the jessen should have nothing. Just think about it: The ban on physical punishment of own children came in 1972, while there had been a ban on the use of violence against one another by adults for hundreds of years. The children were lawless until the 1970s. The term ‘housework’ is still attached. There are still policemen today who do not go into families because they believe that the violence committed within a family is the family's own responsibility. Family members have traditionally had less protection against domestic violence than against those from outside. Interpreting members of the family have not been taken so hard on. Now, on the other hand, an overall judicial committee maintains that – and this sentence is quite strong: ‘Averting violence and abuse against children is one of the most important political tasks that society can do’. It's almost like I'm reading it again – ‘Averting violence and assault on children is one of the most important political tasks society can do’. Yeah, maybe we think it's more important than rail, hospitals, defense, action against climate change? I don't know what's really meant and behind it, but it's a clear expression of something that's very important. If there's something that politicians really should lose the night sleep, it's not really on to protect children. So we can't be eager enough. We can't be impatient enough. We agree on the problem. We agree on the main direction, but we separate layers when it comes to how offensive we can be. A number of proposals have been submitted with the aim of strengthening the protection of children. And despite the fact that the government parties were also involved in the fantastic wording that I have read twice, they will not strengthen the police districts to reach the deadline for organized interrogation. They don't want to strengthen the children's houses, as suggested. They will not ensure further testing of children in children’s homes. They won't strengthen the abuse recipients. And they don't want to strengthen the treatment offer for offenders. So, despite the fact that you're behind a phenomenal formulation, there's a number of things that the government parties here are voting down. So we are facing an incredibly serious social problem, but the government parties do not show impatience. They lean back and refer to the work already done by the government. That's not enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4038	We are many who care, and who do not accept that children experience violence and abuse. Violence and abuse in close relationships is not a private matter. As politicians, we have a special responsibility for the matter that we are dealing with today. It deals with the most vulnerable among us, the ones that need us the most. And if we're not here for them, I can't understand why we're here. On the matter, the Labour Party has proposed a new, concrete and binding action plan. For overall work, it is a pity that the government has not followed up with a new action plan after the previous one went out last year. In my opinion, the many promises of the Progress Party to prioritize victim care are breaking. The concrete and committed actions of the previous action plan have been crucial to ensuring that work is done well and systematically to strengthen the fight against violence in close relations. The government writes it so well on its own websites. The action plan differs from more general plans and messages and from the escalation plan. It has concrete measures that the government is assessed on the basis of status reports. Without an action plan, you'll be left with a vision, a goal, an end point without the points, the guide and the guarantee that we'll actually get where we're going. We can't accept that. Investing in the work is profitable. Violence and assault cost society between 4.5 billion. kr and 6 brd. kr annually, in addition to all human suffering. Work should be intensified, not downgraded. In the state budget, the differences were striking. There the government strengthened the field by 54 million. Compared to last year, the Workers' Party came with a strengthening of 718 million. kr. It says something about the willingness to spend money on prevention and victim care. Among several themes, the government here chooses to turn on the chest, lean back and refer to the escalation plan as described by the Children’s Ombudsman as a problem description. I think that's strikingly disappointing. It's easy to say that you think it's horrible, say uff, write speeches and letters, but it doesn't help anyone. What helps are resources and concrete measures. That is why the Labour Party has made proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4049	Online abuse has become the new crime, and here we have to find some solutions. I want to tell you about a visit that the Justice Division of the Right was on yesterday at Trøndelag Police District in Trondheim. There we met police attorney Marianne Heier, who has developed exciting new ideas on how to better combat online abuse. Each year it is approx. 1000 trophies who download and share pictures and films of sexual abuse against children. The Trondheim police are monitoring this data traffic. Those who do this can expect a visit to the door of the police. They have set up a risk assessment system in Trondheim, where people who are considered to have a high risk, who actually have access to children and who are thought to be able to commit an offence are prosecuted. Then it's the 70 pst. others, considered to be novice and in a low risk zone. They are then offered follow-up and assistance in psychiatry – a new and unique treatment system developed by St. Olav’s hospital at Brøset. One track becomes a kind of fast track, where the goal is early intervention and increased detection risk in cases in which you would normally not have had the capacity to enter. Here the police and the psychiatry in Trøndelag are forward-looking and solution-oriented within a matter category that has an enormous scale. Last week was the entire Justice Committee in London, and there we met the National Crime Agency, who told us about exactly the same problems. There are so many people all over the world who drive and download and share pictures of children who are being attacked, that it seems almost impossible to fight it. I think there are a lot of measures that need to be put in place to combat this, but I think Trondheim has something to do with it. Those who are contacted by the Trondheim police say that they are very grateful that they were stopped — as long as they have been at a low level of activity. This work, which has speeded up, has happened during the police reform. There are separate departments that are now set up to work against sexual abuse. I think that's already given an effect that allows us to do something to combat crime in another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4064	There is no doubt that the plan put forward by the government was underfunded. It did not cover all groups and it was too low a commitment. That's not what the Big One asked for. The Storting wanted a plan that was offensive, that had enough resources, and that pointed out clearly who was responsible for the measures. Today, the Labour Party comes with a loose proposal. One of the reasons we put forward that proposal is that the original plan also did not include older people and people who were under public care. As many as up to 70,000 older people are subjected to violence and assault, and most violence occurs at home and is carried out by close relatives. But violence also committed by employees in the care sector is a reality. A study by Trøndelag at researcher Wenche Malmedal at NTNU showed that as much as 87 pst. by the hospital staff themselves, they failed to have neglected, violated or committed an offence against the elderly in an institution. Malmedal states to Sykepleien that to such an extent it should be discussed whether it can be classified as a violation of human rights, and that was in 2014. So these numbers were clear when the government delivered its plan where they explicitly omitted older ones. It's a neglect. It is also a neglect that not the government parties and the Christian People's Party today choose to support the proposal of the Workers' Party. What are the realities? The reality is that one third of municipalities have action plans against violence, and a quarter of them have included older people in their action plan. This means that in Norway today about 35 municipalities have concrete plans to prevent violence against the elderly, help them to tell and protect them from continuing violence and abuse. There are numbers we can't be familiar with in Norway in 2018. Now it's almost nine years since the first reports of violence against the elderly came. The government indicates that the problem is described in particular. a roll-out message related to people with developmental disabilities. The paradox is that that communication points to the action plan against violence and abuse, as the government of Stoltenberg stated. So this government will now end action plans. They think it's good enough. They boast of 800 million. kr in bet. Well, in our area, there's five million. kr on the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality budget, which is new, fresh money for the 2017 attack. It won't last.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4077	No more people have asked for the floor. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4093	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply be given to the members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4102	The Judicial Committee has had to deal with proposals by representatives of the depositors Geir Pollestad and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum not to introduce a new fee for a transfer certificate. It is proposed in the proposal for a representative that the Stortinget ask the government to stop working on the proposal to impose a fee on the issue of replacement and replacement certificates and on the issue of a power to dispose of less valuable dwellings. The hearing sent by the Ministry of Justice and Defence is concerned with a proposal to impose a fee on the issue by the courts of replacement and replacement certificates and on the issue by the courts of powers to dispose of less valuable dwellings. The consultation note refers to a proposal to introduce such a fee from 1 July 2018 and the fee is addressed in the Ministry of Justice and Defence's budget proposal for 2018. The essence of the matter is that if the spouse, partner or parent dies, the heirs must have a replacement certificate in order to be able to transfer the values of the deceased to themselves. This applies to real estate as a dwelling. So far it has been free for individuals to get such a certificate, but now the government will charge a fee on this service. The government proposes that it will cost people who have recently lost one of their closest, $1150 to get the certificate. This totals 40 million. kr per year. When this proposal came from the government, it led to strong reactions in this room when the Council of State met in the Questionnaire. On the one hand, this government chooses to give large tax credits to the richest, and on the other hand, the same government chooses with the Advance Party in the front to introduce another fee that will hit people the most – a fee that will affect those who are saddened by the loss of their closest. In the State Council’s letter of reply to the Committee of 9 April 2018, the Council of State reasonably states that a fee corresponding to the expenditure incurred by the public in such acts of authority is paid and that the use of resources in such issues is not insignificant. Furthermore, the Council of State points to a comparable fee and does not see decisive arguments for the imposition of the fees referred to in the proposed representative rather than those. The Council of State further points out to the 2017 Perspective Communication that the scope of action will be more limited in the coming years and that consideration should be given to how Norwegian services should be financed in the future. The majority of the Committee does not agree with this assessment by the Council of State and does not wish to impose on people in mourning enough a cost, a fee. This is not the right way to save money. I also assume that the opinions expressed in the media from the Christian People's Party are still valid, and we can therefore assume that there is a majority against this proposal in the Stortinget. For information, the Workers' Party will contribute funds to the revised national budget that make it clear that we do not want to include this fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4119	It's as the rapporteur says quite correctly, that this is a question taken in the RNB, and it's probably not a shock if I say from this speaker that this fee may never see the light of day. But we don't allow a good opportunity to go from us to discuss difficult questions of principle about fees, self-eating and death, and I thought I'd just come up with some thoughts about this anyway. It seems to me that this debate has spread a perception that going away means being free of the taxes, taxes and charges of the state. It's not like that at all. But it has almost spread a perception that this should be a form of an immoral charge to walk with people who are standing up for a difficult time. I didn't get this to vote at all, and I sat down with the Internet, went into Google and tried to figure out: what does it cost to die in the Kingdom? I found some examples. The first example that came up was from the municipality of Skedsmo, a red-green bastion. I've heard that they've had red-green rule for over a hundred years, so this lesson with the last eight years, etc., doesn't apply there. There I think it's been a red-green rule almost for a hundred years. What does it cost to die? And now I'm not talking about spending to private or other actors. Now I'm talking about what you pay municipal authorities to get them to do a service and cover their own food. Now I take a limited variant of a funeral: rentals to chapel: NOK 1615, cremation fee: SEK 4 910, reduction of urns: SEK 1440, dispatch of urns: NOK 540, five years rent of tombs as an initial fee: NOK 1550, plant and temporary fee: NOK 968, irrigation fee: NOK 432 – I do not think that is necessary in Bergen, but it is obviously necessary on Skedsmo – tomb support fee: NOK 1500. So the direct fee to Skedsmo Municipality to go away is over $12,500. I checked the rapporteur's home municipality, Horten. It's obviously better to live there. There are charges for a similar funeral of around 8000–9000 kroner plus/minus. So it's cheaper there. There is a complaint in this room that a self-cost charge of NOK 1130 should be imposed to cover the public sector's own costs. But if a fee for one's death is so in principle reprehensible, can anyone then explain to me what the difference is that a municipality covers its own costs, and that the state covers its own costs through a fee? I can't see the difference. What is the big difference in principle between a tomb grant fee, a transfer certificate fee, an urn charge and a cremation fee? I think the answer is simply that it's unpopular to be for fees, and it's popular to be for fees. It should be a little higher on the popularity scale actually to have a logical and principled, coherent policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4134	I have lived most of my life in the municipality of Skedsmo, and if I was not afraid of death until I heard the post of the representative Frølich, I am at least now, especially since Hindus are usually cremated in addition! One of the first things that happened after the government change in 2013 was that the four non-socialist parties joined forces to remove the inheritance fee. It has also been an important matter for the Progress Party for many years. The inheritance fee was something that often hit families unexpectedly, at a time of grief, and was a tax that neither took into account income nor available resources, and could be quite high and therefore a heavy burden. I am very pleased that we removed after a few months in government. This is in great contrast to a fee. Fees are usually levied by the State in connection with the recovery of costs incurred by the State for various services, and also at self-cost. Although my party is usually not so happy with new fees and charges, there is a large difference between a limited fee of just over NOK 1000 and having an inheritance fee, which we had for many years. I could not stop laughing when I heard the contribution from the Labour Party representative, all the time they ran this country for many years with the inheritance fee, which was a far greater burden and burden for many of the country's inhabitants than a single fee of a limited size. I would also like to say the same thing that has been mentioned here earlier: this debate probably belongs to budgetary work, whether it be budgetary negotiations or other budgetary work. I also hope that's where it's taken. As the representative Frölich also said, we will have to wait and see if this fee will become a reality at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4145	The central party is the proposer of this proposal, which is intended not to impose fees for replacement and replacement certificates and when issuing authorisation to dispose of less valuable dwellings. It is a fee that arises when someone dies, it is simply a death fee, and it has been given the legitimate name ‘death fee’ in the media. The main reason why we are promoting this proposal to stop the imposition of the death penalty is that it is very distorted and unsocial. In particular, it may be unreasonably felt in those cases where there is a surviving spouse who is to remain in the same state of residence. This applies to the fee for a certificate which all persons who are to inherit and are to be authorised to reside must themselves obtain when a person dies. It is a fee that cannot be removed. There is an additional financial burden in an already demanding situation. And it's unreasonable and contrary to the general sense of law to impose a fee on it to die. I note in the Council's reply to the Committee that the reason for introducing the fee is that it is reasonable to pay a fee equivalent to public expenditure and that the use of public resources is not insignificant. In addition, the Council of State points to comparable fees and states that it does not see decisive arguments for any other treatment of the fees referred to in the Central Party’s proposal for a representative. However, we believe that this fee must be viewed in ways other than the public service charge. I can agree that the fee is predictable, because it is very predictable that no one lives forever. But the fee does not take into account the economy you have, and that is an argument that the government parties themselves have used to remove the inheritance tax. We are opposed to the introduction of the fee, and in any case it has to be amended to introduce it, but no decision has been taken. That proposal is currently being consulted, in addition to a hearing where the death fee has received total slaughter. So that the Council of State and the Government parties continue to maintain the proposal is incomprehensible. I'm glad there's a majority in the Justice Committee to stop the death fee. The Christian People's Party has announced in the media that they will also stand with the opposition. I hope that is true during voting today. I see that the Right and Advance Party in their comments have asked questions about the credibility of the Central Party in view of the revised national budget. But I can assure you that we are going to add the reversal of the death fee to our revised national budget. So we take that concern, and then you can rather worry about what to do when you lose the matter in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4162	It is really quite eloquent that I have to step in as a deputy of the representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, because he has been in budgetary negotiations. This case is part of the 2018 budget agreement, and the Christian People's Party is therefore neat and is dealing with the government parties in this matter. Making the so-called death fee history before it is introduced is one of the most important issues of the Christian People's Party in the ongoing negotiations on the revised national budget. The Christian People's Party is committed to using taxes when it has a purpose: lower prices of cars that emit little CO 2, and higher taxes on environmentally or health-damaging behaviour. This is also a good social economy. At the same time, we have been clear that the death penalty will be unsocial, it will affect everyone equally, and it has no preventative effect. It is a levy that should rather be financed by the Community from the State budget. That has been our position, but, as I said, this matter is now in the negotiations on the revised national budget, and the Christian People's Party will therefore not support any proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4174	Today, fees are paid for the services provided by the courts in the event of a public change. It is reasonable that users of the courts should also pay a fee equivalent to the costs incurred by the State in issuing replacement and replacement certificates. The services are clearly defined administrative actions, with a certain service character, and the use of resources and the costs of providing the services are not insignificant. The size has already provided the half-yearly effect of a new common fee for the issue by the Court of Justice of a replacement certificate, a replacement certificate and a power of attorney in case of reduced value entry into the State budget for 2018. These funds also finance the alternative budgets of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, i.e. the parties which are behind the committee establishment and which, just before Christmas, would like to use the revenue which the fee would give for other good budgetary purposes. The government has loyally followed this up by sending a bill to the hearing. After the hearing, I have come to the conclusion that it is no longer desirable to charge for the issuance of powers in case of a lower value living, as there is a risk that a fee may result in them not being replaced, so-called liquid living, with the unfortunate consequences it may have. In addition, I have concluded that the fee for replacement certificates should be reduced to 0.75 R, i.e. NOK 847.50, to correspond to new self-cost calculations. This has been taken into account in the government’s proposal for a revised national budget. The fees for private shifts will still be significantly lower than for public shifts, which are currently NOK 20 340 when the courts are running the switch themselves. When a lawyer is appointed to the board of directors, only half of this fee is paid, but the legal expenses will be added. When there is no proposal for a fee for resident proxy with less value, I believe that the proposal provides a balanced fee regulation in conjunction with the cost of providing the service and with the values that are often found elsewhere in the death home. A proposal for a Document 8 has been made for the government to stop its work on the proposal to introduce a new fee for the issue of replacement and replacement certificates and the power to dispose of less valuable dwellings. The members of the Judicial Committee of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have amended this to include a proposal that the Stortinget does not ask the Government to impose a fee on the issue of replacement and replacement certificates and powers to dispose of less valuable dwellings. As mentioned above, there is no longer a proposal from the government to impose a fee for powers of reduced value, and its effect has been reversed in the revised national budget. In addition, the government has already submitted a bill on fees for replacement certificates and replacement certificates. The proposal was submitted at the same time as the revised national budget, and the Stortinget has provisionally set aside 11 June 2018 for the consideration of the legislative proposal. Since the fees for replacement and replacement certificates are still in the state budget for 2018 with a half-yearly effect, I think it is most straightforward that the issue of introducing the fees is addressed in the context of the revised national budget. It will be up there to the majority of the Biggest whether they will maintain their position from six months back, or whether they go away from that position. At the same time, the proposal for alternative containment should be made visible by the parties relying on the revenue from the fee in their draft budget before Christmas, if they now no longer wish to introduce the fee, as at least this committee setting may indicate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4196	Does the Council of State believe that it is in line with the policy of the Progress Party to impose a fee on death?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4201	This is a payment for a service – this is not a tax – in the same way that there is a series of payments for services, which I think the representative Frølich made glitteringly. However, there is a difference between the payments the municipality takes, and this. It's that here we don't charge for living of less value – so this might have a better social profile than what you have in Skedsmo Municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4207	Does this mean that I can see that the Progress Party, which is based on Anders Lange's party for a strong reduction in taxes, taxes and public intervention, has now completely changed its policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4212	Do not delete – this is not a tax, it is not a tax. It is a fee that is paid for a service. We have that in a number of areas of society. I have also not registered that the Workers' Party is in principle against payment for services, neither in Stortinget nor in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4219	The proposal of the Government to impose this death fee has been completely slaughtered by all the hearing bodies. The hearing replies refer to the fact that the certificates in question cannot be removed. Feesing such services will result in additional financial pressures for people already in a very difficult situation in relation to death. It is described as an unreasonable fee that is contrary to the general sense of law. I expect that the government has held a hearing for a reason – just to get relevant input from different social actors about the consequences of promoting a fee proposal, so you can adjust the course if you are on the wrong track. But what is the reason why the Council of State will not listen to the hearing bodies when there are so clear reports that the imposition of the fee is unreasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4226	As usual, as at all other hearings, we consider the hearing opinions – what is sensible and what is good. We take this into account and have, among other things, adjusted something here. This is a fee that is in no way new, it already exists for legal services today, and it is quite reasonable to find a self-sufficiency in this area as well. The interesting thing is that I have not registered that the representatives of the Centre Party are against payment for services, even in the municipalities when people die.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4233	We believe it is unsocial to introduce such a fee that affects everyone equally, no matter what kind of economic background they have, and that is introduced into a very difficult phase of life. Fees, for example, may be used to regulate behaviour and to cover consumption, but it is impossible to control death. It happens to everyone in any case, and then the government chooses to introduce a fee that affects people regardless of whether they are millionaires or don't have a dollar on the book. The previous replicator was concerned that the Progress Party is marketing itself as the party that wants to reduce taxes and charges for ordinary people. Is it now that as long as you reduce taxes and taxes, you are free to introduce new fees that affect people most, equally, regardless of their economic background?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4240	This, I think, is a quite reasonable fee, but I also notice that the representative from the Central Party will not comment on whether the Central Party has now intended to travel around the Municipal Councils to promote proposals to wind up all kinds of payment for burial services, and that should have exactly the same reason as this. But there is one difference: if the dwelling is small, no fee is charged. Then I would say that it is a fair way to assess whether the fee is due or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4245	No one thinks there is no cost when someone dies, but there is no reason to make the situation more difficult than it already is. The representative Frølich mentioned in his introduction examples from a few municipalities. If we take Horten, which was used as an example and if I remember correctly, where it costs about 8,000 kroner in fees to the municipality, then this fee will be more than 10 pst. increase in the price you get — a not insignificant sum too many. And, as we've been through several times, this fee affects everyone, no matter what situation they're in. Once again, I would like to ask the Council of State: has the Council become a champion of compensation fees for taxes and charges? Does he have no understanding that this fee goes unsocial when someone dies?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4252	This fee is paid mainly by heirs or by those who take over the dwelling, if there is anything left in the dwelling. This is not a tax and not a tax, but a payment for a service that is provided in very concrete terms, which the representative is aware of. The courts pay for services in very many other areas of society, of people who may have ended up in situations they don't want to be in, because you usually don't want to go to a court, anyway. I note that the representative avoids – again – telling us whether the Central Party intends to propose to abolish the fees of local government around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4259	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4266	I thought it was something special that the Council of State in the change of line asked questions to the replicator. I think the Council of State should rather focus on answering the questions he gets in Stortinget. This is how the Christian People's Party is now making it clear that this is what they want to do in the RNB negotiations. That's understandable. What is disappointing is that a very clear impression has been given to the media, for example. Our Country, several times that the Christian People's Party would stop this fee. I think it would have been more real to say: we're going to negotiate it, and then we're going to look at the outcome. So I thought the listing of Peter Frölich is interesting and shows that it costs a lot to die in Norway today, and that there's a little bit different between municipalities. But I think it's a bit funny reasoning, that maybe we should put on a little bit more from the state's side. There I thought the representative from the Central Party in the change of line responded brilliantly that, for example. The Horten municipality would represent an increase of 10 pst. for those liable to pay this fee. I also record that no representatives from the Right Party or the Advance Party are standing up here and embrace this with love and zeal – and I can understand that – but a user rather time to talk about other matters. One can, if that's so that the Right has discovered that this is worse at the municipal level, wonder if one then might go in to do it stately instead. We look forward to the treatment of the revised national budget. There's no need to worry about the Labour Party - we don't play budget, we put money into the measures we're going to, and we're going to put money in order for this fee not to be collected. So I really hope that the Christian People's Party can stand by what they have said, that they will be happy in the negotiations, because I really expected that today, during the vote on this matter, we had decided that we would not introduce it. We had then failed to deal with the bill that was sent to the Judicial Committee – legally late, I have to say, we had not been required to deal with this matter, because it came after the deadline. But then we'll have to wait and see what we get. The Labour Party is at least clear that this fee does not seem to me to require people to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4288	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 15th The regulatory time has passed. The President proposes that the meeting continue until the matters on today's map have been dealt with. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4306	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply be given to the members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4315	This case concerns an SV representative proposal, where the proposers originally asked the Government to ask the government to complete the work of the selection to assess changes in emergency legislation. The proposal has its background in the fact that on 9 February this year the government will set up a public selection to assess changes in emergency legislation. The selection is mentioned in the Report. St. 10 for 2016–2017, Risk in a safe society, which was addressed in the previous ageing period. From the government's side, it is shown that there may be a need to act faster and more flexibly from the authorities' side in order to deal with critical situations in a better way than today's laws and regulations allow. The selection has been given a mandate to consider whether the government should have the possibility of supplementing or making exemptions from legislation and of temporarily suspending or modifying the statutory courts in exceptional situations. The suggestion providers refer to Inn comments. 326 S for 2016-2017, cf. Report. St. 10 for 2016-2017, Risk in a Secure Society, where the majority in the forthcoming Judicial Committee encouraged the government not to set up a selection to assess an extension of the emergency legislation’s scope of action. This call was not made as a suggestion, based on the fact that she did not have the majority in Stortinget behind her. The action was standing in the message, and that is the point where the government is now following up. The Committee, through its examination of this matter, has largely recognised the government's right to set up selections and the duty it has to follow up several decisions taken by the Stortinget. It is an important and good thing that we, as big-scale representatives, have failed in one cause to respect and place ourselves behind the constitutional framework as a liability between accumulation and government. The SV's proposal has been drawn up in the Committee's deliberations, and I therefore propose a new proposal from the Committee's pluralities, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left. The proposal now before us is primarily about restricting the mandate of the selection. Legislation in exceptional situations of crisis may address challenges of a different nature. Situations may be such that within the current legal framework there is no access to the necessary measures, with the consequence that it will not be possible to deal with a critical situation in a timely manner. Such situations can result in such a large and rapid pressure on resources that it is not possible to meet the obligations that depend on the authorities. The authorities will then be in a situation where the only way to deal with the crisis is to set aside the normal procedures. I find it strange that the proposers would like to conclude on such an important matter before the decision is taken. When the proposers argue against changes in the law on preparedness, they give the main reason that the need has not been adequately justified by the government. The right-wing party and its representatives in the Committee will stress that the selection has just been mandated to identify and document the need for an extension of regulation beyond what exists today. On the one hand, the proposers demand proof of the need, but on the other hand, they do not want the need to be met. In the mandate of the selection there is also an assessment of any objection to such an extended mandate and an explanation of mechanisms that must be in place to prevent abuse. It is right and important that this distribution is carried out at a time of calm and not when one is in the midst of a crisis. Through the selection's professional work, we will receive thorough and thought-out assessments, and we will be informed of several aspects of the matter. There is no selection to conclude in a specific direction. Neither has the government pre-defined this matter in any way, but it wants us to assess whether we have the governance mechanisms we need to deal effectively with an extraordinary crisis situation in the best possible way. Since the relationship with human rights has been discussed in both the note and in the media, I would point out clearly in the mandate of the selection that the content of the distribution and any conclusions and decisions can never conflict with the Constitution or international conventions on human rights. I take up the minority's proposal, which is pending.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4340	The representative of Frida Melvær has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4345	This is not a new debate; we had part of this topic of debate also during the treatment of risks in a safe society, as the case-leader pointed out. The majority of the Judicial Committee at that time clearly indicated that one did not want such a selection to be set down. But it was also a reality that there didn't have multiples in Stortinget. So the government is free to put down the selection they want, and one can't believe that, as you can see, it was contrary to something the Grand Council decided, but it was contrary to the view of the plurality of the judiciary committee. The Labour Party still believes that it is a very bad idea to do what is in the mandate of the election, and I think the matter is very important, because it is about being willing to give a cross-sectoral authority to the Civil Protection Act with a view to exceptional situations other than where the kingdom is at war, where war threatens or where the nation's self-esteem is at risk. It's a pretty big change, a pretty big shift of power. Therefore, I think it is, despite the fact that one did not agree with SV's original proposal, happy that we can take this debate now, because it sends a very clear signal to the government regarding where the Storting stands in this matter. Something here can probably work out, but I also mean that there's a fundamental question what a doer of pushing power from the Storting and setting laws and rules aside. I need a lot more. There's a lot of good reasons why you shouldn't do this. We have examples from other countries where one has introduced waiver laws. After e.g. The terrorist attack in France has shown that the state of emergency has been a long time after. And in the mandate given to the selection, the government has a proposal for a general and cross-sectoral mandate that allows for a temporary extension and, if necessary, a derogation from the current legislation. I want to repeat that I think it's a big and drastic measure that we don't support. So I think it's also clear from the remarks that the government is pushing the refugee situation and the crisis we experienced in 2015 is taking place in this case. It was not the emergency legislation that was the problem then; it was that the government did not manage that situation, understood the seriousness too late and did not take action early enough. The size had to, on its side, the time when an urgent decision was taken, so that the necessary changes could be made as soon as possible. So I think it's hard to understand that there should be a good foundation for changing the law, which today can only be used in war, if war threatens, or if there are serious threats to the security of the kingdom. I really don't think so. So I think of course it's going to be very high threshold to interrupt an ongoing work in a public selection, but at the same time I think the government should at least register what's big enough to mean. The Christian People's Party was as clear as the Labour Party in the previous period that it is not appropriate to do what a asks this selection looks at, and I hope that the Christian People's Party will make its position visible during the debate today too, so that one can give a clear message from the Stortinget to the government that pushing power in this way, making changes in the emergency laws such as the selection has asked us to look at, there are not multiples for in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4358	I believe this matter has two sides. One is that I believe that the representative who has promoted the proposal has a lack of understanding of the division of roles between the legislative and executive powers in our parliamentary system, regardless of who is in the government. This is a sample set by the government, it's not a suggestion. All possible legislative changes will have to be promoted in the usual way after this sample has made its investigation and made its recommendations, and then the government will have to decide whether to follow it up. It's the government's prerogative to bring down this type of sample. I therefore believe it is wrong for the Storting to ask the government to close a sample that the government itself has put down. The second is the content of the matter, which I personally believe is a major step in the wrong direction, and which I also believe is irresponsible. Now there are many types of situations that may arise, giving rise to state of emergency. There could be natural disasters, there could be other types of events. The one we have the freshest in memory, and which is also a lot of the background for this selection to be put down, is the event closest to us: it was the refugee crisis, which it was no more than two to three years ago, where in a few weeks there were 5,500 refugees across the border of Storskog – almost 200 daily to the small community of 3,500 inhabitants. The whole of Europe, not just Norway, was in an exceptional state for a few weeks and months. The government asked the Stortinget to, and fortunately was supported, that the necessary legislative changes were adopted very quickly to deal with that situation. What this sample is going to evaluate and evaluate, and which they have no pre-existing phase, is just putting us in a better position to deal with the emerging state of exceptions in the future. Not preparing for exceptional situations, whether refugee flows or other types of situations arise, I think is irresponsible. It's better to do the job now so that we have the funds needed to deal with acute situations. I heard the representative from the Workers' Party say that the government did not handle the situation that was, in a good way. I believe that the outcome of the situation – both the homes that were proposed quickly and adopted in Stortinget, and the situation that arose in Storskog, was quickly concluded diplomatically and in other ways – showed that the situation was just handled well. But if, now, in a situation where there is no state of emergency, we do not have the necessary means to deal with these types of quotations again, I do not believe we are following our responsibilities as leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4369	§ 3 of today's emergency law is a concreteisation of constitutional emergency law that only applies in the event of extremely serious incidents. It is only when the kingdom is at war, is threatened by war, or there are serious threats to the security and independence of the kingdom, that the government may deviate from the law, or itself make provisions with law. The government now wants to assess an extension of both the scope and the threshold of this law, and they have set a much debated sample to assess and provide the government with cross-sectoral powers that will give them much lower thresholds to override the decision of the Storting in cases not covered by the Emergency Act. I understand the desire that quick solutions will be provided when difficult situations arise, but the central party believes that the government has not documented or demonstrated the need for the government to be able to make decisions with legal content or disregard the laws of Stortinget, in the cases they have mentioned. I also understand the idea of wanting to think across sectors, but I believe that in this case the government imposes on itself far too wide powers at the expense of the Stortinget. There are certain constraints that the government has to respect. One would like to say that this is a difficult debate in the field of emergency response, which must be taken when we are not in the midst of a crisis. But I cannot see that this proposal will improve preparedness and at the same time be within what should be the relationship of power between magnification and government. I have noticed in particular that the government parties – to justify extended powers to themselves – refer to the asylum situation in 2015 and the pressure that arose on the administration and welfare services at the time. There were no shortcomings in the law that were the major problem then, but that the government did not understand seriously early enough and did not take action when they should have done so. I find it difficult to see good reasons for the Storting's handling at that time to justify the government's power to side with the Storting's law decision. The size showed action and great willingness to cooperate. Experience has shown that it is fully possible to make rapid and sensible decisions in the Grand Duchy when a distressed situation arises. It is difficult to understand that this should be a good reason to change the part of the law currently used only in war, if war threatens, or when there are serious threats to the security and independence of the kingdom, so that the government in practice is given powers far beyond what it currently has. There is a substantial difference between the ordinary regulatory competence of the Stortinget giving the government and a general cross-sectoral mandate that the government wants. The space for action of the executive will be much larger, at the expense of the Grand Government, the principle of legality and, in particular, the citizens. A broad provision of power is particularly problematic when it comes to interfering with the rights of individuals. It should not be up to the government at all times to determine which rights individuals should have or to disregard what the Storing has adopted in this area. The risk of abuse of a broad mandate is high, especially in a matter such as asylum, which is easily politicised. Fear and political pressure can lead to unfortunate decisions that go drastically beyond the rights of the individual, without democratic treatment in the Storting. It is a fundamental principle of democracy that the legal status of individuals is determined by law by the Stortinget, not by regulations based on open powers. The size must be very careful to leave too much of the decisions in this field to the government and the administration alone, and thus open the way for cutting down the individual's rights. The fact that the sample is to stay within the Constitution and the obligations of international law should really be lacking, so I see no reason why the government can boast that this is included in the mandate. However, although a possible proposal remains within the framework of the Constitution and obligations under international law, it would nevertheless badly harmonize with the principle of legality. The Government has already received clear signals from both the current and the previous majority of the Judicial Committee that changes to the Emergency Act are not desirable. The composition of the Committee has changed since the election, but the majority of the Committee remains committed to the message that there is no request for proposals in line with the mandate of the Preparatory Committee. When all the parties, the majority of the Judicial Committee and the majority of the Grand Duchy have expressed themselves as clearly as has been done, the government does not have the majority to change the law on preparedness in line with what they outline, and those proposals should not be promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4394	Signatures have taken the initiative to do so. It happened because I was quite surprised – quite startled in fact – that the government would put down a sample that would look at the possibility of having an extended state of emergency, in other words, waiving existing laws and rights. In the mandate, there is a clear reference to the refugee crisis in 2015. My criticism of the sample also needs to be seen in the context of the fact that the person who took the initiative in the sample was a minister, a minister of justice, who did not respect Norway's international rights in a refugee situation. She wanted Norway to look at opportunities to deviate from its international obligations through a flow of refugees. It was very clear, she says it explicitly, in Dagbladet on 24 August 2017, where she is clear that the European Convention on Human Rights stands in the way of how Norway is to deal with the flow of refugees. As I read this, the Minister of Justice at that time wanted to look for an opportunity for Norway to derogate from the rights of asylum seekers, possibly shut out or prevent asylum seekers from coming to the country. It's with the political background that I suggested that this sample should not work any further. Norwegian preparedness law – which is therefore in line with Article 15 of the European Convention on Human Rights – states that exceptions to the applicable law and law can only be made in the event of war, when war threatens, or when fundamental security is at risk. It therefore requires very strong reasons for extending these proxy and waiver laws. It is not as the representative of the Progress Party says, that there are many things that can trigger an exceptional state. No, that's not it. International conventions are very clear that it is at war, when war threatens, or when other types of fundamental security are at risk, that there may be grounds for an exceptional state. The definition of a flow of refugees as a state of emergency is likely to be in violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, very weakly justified by international law and also a poorly hidden attempt to try new opportunities to limit the flow of asylum to Norway. The previous Minister has thus taken the initiative of a committee with a mandate that is likely to be contrary to Article 15 of the ECHR. That's pretty special. I can also remind the Council of Europe that the use of state-of-the-art in various countries, especially in countries such as Turkey and France, where coup d'états and terrorist acts have been behind. The Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly adopted a resolution in April, now in spring, which stated very clearly that it is only these three elements, war, when war threatens, or when fundamental security is at risk – only these three things – that can provide the basis for declaring a state of emergency. The Council of Europe strongly stated that a refugee stream is absolutely not the basis for declaring an exceptional state. The fact that this sample has now been given the opportunity to see whether it can be such that a flow of refugees can be the basis for an exceptional state is also contrary to the new Council of Europe resolution. SV originally proposed that the entire sample be dropped, because we believe it was unheard of putting down a sample with these kinds of objectives, but also because the Size has previously expressed that such a sample is undesirable. But we wanted to pool support, and there have now been support from three parties for a joint proposal from the Workers' Party asking the government not to come back to the Stortinge with extended powers. So we are not now proposing that the selection should be dropped, but a strong restriction on the mandate. If it is adopted, the sample will have little to do, and they will not be able to come back to Stortinget with any suggestions. I am a little surprised that we have not received support from the Christian People's Party for this. I think it's eye-catching. It must be the responsibility of the Christian People's Party. By not supporting this proposal, the Christian People's Party is behind a minister who is looking for an opportunity to use waiver laws in a wave of refugees. It's pretty strong. Then they must also take responsibility for the possibility that waiver laws will affect refugees from war zones.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4409	The Communication on Risk in a Secure Society, presented by the Right-Fremskritsparte-Government in the previous period, warned that the government would set up a sample to look at cross-sectoral mandate provisions in emergency legislation by, among others. high asylum arrivals, natural disasters, accidents, pandemics and infrastructure breakdowns. Emergency legislation is a concreteisation of constitutional emergency law that allows the government to depart from existing legislation or to provide for regulatory content in specific situations. There are strict demands when this court intervenes – only when the kingdom is at war, when war threatens or the independence or security of the kingdom is at risk. Already when the government announced that they wanted to put this sample down, the Christian People's Party asked the government to leave it. We felt that the government had not given sufficient reasons why the scope of emergency legislation had to be extended. We pointed out that there are only fundamental security interests for the nation that can justify an extension of the scope of emergency law. High levels of asylum arrivals cannot be characterised as a fundamental security situation. This is what we stand by today. However, the Christian People's Party will not support the proposal under consideration, although I note that the proposal is somewhat different from what is in the proposal for a representative. But the consequence is the same. It goes beyond the jurisdiction of a government to promote the proposals that they want. Of course, the size has the right to decide for yourself which proposals you will support or not. And in this case, the government does not have the majority on its side. So if they want to make a proposal that they know will be voted down, they'll have to do it, because they do, the Christian People's Party will vote down the proposal. So although we agree that emergency legislation should not be extended, we are not voting in favour of the recommendation in the position of the Justice Committee, but for the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4418	I am pleased that an overall committee sees that the selection work that has now begun is in the course of an entirely normal legislative process and that, of course, it is up to the Storting to decide whether to adopt amendments to the legislation in this area. A legislative decision could only become a reality after the sample may have made a recommendation on the change. The matter has been discussed in general, reviewed by the Department — and may be referred to a government proposal. It is now far too early to say what any legislative proposal should be about, if it comes at all. It is precisely the sample to be considered in the first instance. I am also pleased that the Workers' Party, in its comments in the Committee's position, recognises the government's right to set down public committees to address different issues. I would believe that any party that can imagine sitting in government sees the value of the executive providing professionally good investigations, and, if necessary, promoting proposals for legislation to follow up them, while the Stortinge determines at all times whether the proposals should be adopted in full, in part or in modified form. From this point of view, I believe that the proposal for a decision, promoted by the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party in the Committee, is a matter of concern. The proposal appears to be a ‘light’ variant of the draft representative. If I have understood the new proposal correctly, the government is allowed to answer questions, but not to make proposals in a particular direction, in accordance with the investigation, even if the sample on a professional basis believes it would be correct, and even if the proposal after a thorough subsequent process would have been solidly supported. I do not think such a procedure is in accordance with a good legislative tradition. Here, too, I would like to encourage us to maintain an established division of labour between large-scale and government. The government is complying – naturally – with the Stortinget proposals, but that the Stortinget should decide that the government cannot even make proposals for the Stortinget, I have not been registered as a standard practice in our parliamentary system. I also have difficulties in understanding what the purpose of establishing such a practice might be, since the Stortinget is in any case free to consider all the government's proposals on an independent basis. I agree otherwise to refer to what I have said in my letter to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which is at the committee stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4433	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4439	Since this is a mandate to a selection and not something the government has yet done for the Stortinget, it might be interesting to hear what the Minister of Justice thinks about countermeasures to extend the emergency legislation, which the selection has been mandated to look at. Now there are several parties in their posts who are in charge of various countermeasures, and there are probably some arguments for this, but as I said, I could well think of righting the reflections of the Minister of Justice about what countermeasures he sees against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4444	Like many in Stortinget, I see very easily that there are fundamental concerns about emergency legislation. This means that before making any changes, you should have thought carefully about it. Now we're assuming that we have emergency legislation from 1950, and if you're going to do something political, it's important that it's knowledge-based. The whole point of departure is to obtain a knowledge base and a professional assessment that will discuss both different emergency situations, such as health and food preparedness, and the fundamental concerns that may be obvious here. The knowledge we acquire will be the basis for what the government might do later, and of course hopefully for what the Storting might do later.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4451	I thank you for your answer. A government has the right to present its proposals. But we do have a parliamentary situation with a minority government that depends on a majority in Stortinget to implement its policy. Now we heard the representative from the Christian People's Party very clearly say what the Christian People's Party's position is in the matter. In other words, there are not multiples in today's accumulation, during this magnification period, to make such changes. Would it affect the efforts of the government to propose extensions to the emergency legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4458	I notice what is said, but I don't want to pre-shoot what the government is doing, simply because the selection job is to acquire knowledge. I sincerely believe that policies should be knowledge-based and that knowledge should be used to support the assessments made. So I think it might be useful for the government to share the knowledge you have, with the Storting, so the Storting can make its decisions based on knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4463	In the end, if one is to rely on knowledge-based policies, what knowledge does the Council of State and the Government Party use when referring to the refugee crisis in 2015 as a basis for changing the emergency legislation? What was the problem of emergency legislation related to the management of the refugee crisis that occurred in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4468	I don't want to pre-shoot any of that sample. There are different parts to be assessed, including health preparedness and food preparedness. There are different things that we need to get knowledge about. I remind you again that the legislation we have is from 1950, and it may be useful to look at what has happened in the world, and assess whether there is a basis for changing the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4475	I am concerned that Norway will work in line with its international commitments. What we are seeing here is that the mandate for this sample goes beyond what Article 15 of the ECHR says in terms of the possibility of making exceptions. In Article 15 of the ECHR, there are very clear limitations: war, when war threatens fundamental security. This was underlined, as I mentioned in my speech in the course of my speech, by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 24 April. Does the Minister of Justice think it is comfortable and proper that he has a selection that works beyond the limits of what the EMK permits?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4480	I have no reason to say that the sample works beyond those limits. The committee has been given the task of also discussing fundamental concerns, and I think it is very natural to consider international conventions and obligations as well as the Constitution, which they will do to date before reaching a conclusion. We have a sample working on investigating things, and it must be possible to have that sample without attaching government positions before the sample has come up with its assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4485	My point is that when you have a sample to work with these kinds of legal instruments, it is quite natural in most contexts to work within the framework of the international conventions is possible. If this is not done, this work may be read as an opportunity to look into whether Norway wishes to derogate from Article 15. My question is now: does the Minister of Justice see an opportunity for him to come back with a proposal for the Stortinget where Norway wants to deport, or depart from, Article 15 of the European Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4490	Of course, I do not intend to suggest or believe anything about what the government might come back to. This is a sample that provides knowledge — about facts in the world, about threats that are out there, and about the legal commitments Norway has. It's also part of the assessment. I think it's important to base knowledge, and I don't think you should shoot anything until we get that knowledge on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4495	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4503	We're not going to drag this debate so much longer. I would like to thank you for a good debate. I also want to extend a great deal of thanks to the Christian People's Party, which sees the same thing as the Right, the Advance Party and the Left have seen, that this matter is about the government's right to set down selections. In conclusion, I just have to say that I'm a little surprised at the parties and the representatives here in the Chamber who know what the selection has actually done about assessments and conclusions. It seems like they've already come up with a sense of it. I don't know what conclusions or ratings the selection has, but they're not yet known to anyone. I would also like to stress most strongly that there are some values that this country is all about. Human rights are among these values, and there should never be any doubt that government parties are fenced around basic human rights. I found it sad to note that it has been speculated in what the government intends to do about this in this matter. The cause will pass through the ordinary democratic processes. Get her to the Stortinget, we'll have those assessments and that debate then. Until then, I think we should be careful to conclude what the selection actually comes with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4514	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4550	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make a comprehensive change to the air traffic tax system. The investigation shall consider the possibility of changing charges in order to strengthen the short-range network while reinforcing the environmental impact of charges. In doing so, the investigation shall consider the possibilities for environmental differentiation of the air passenger charge, including for flights to abroad, as in Sweden and the United Kingdom. The changes shall not reduce Avinor’s total revenue.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4580	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review and amendment of the aviation charging system to ensure that aeroplanes with a low seating capacity do not have a higher charge per seating position than larger aeroplanes, thus strengthening the supply of the short-haul network. The changes must not reduce Avinor's total revenues.» Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4606	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4622	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to conduct a draft selection inquiry for the Norwegian part of a modernised and reinforced rail link between Oslo and Stockholm. [[KVU]] The KVU shall be seen in conjunction with the Swedish ‘action selection study’, which was completed by the Swedish Transport Agency in November 2017. The KVU shall be developed in close dialogue with the Swedish authorities. The KVU shall cover both passenger and freight traffic and shall consider different trajectory options. The KVU shall also include an assessment of different financing methods for the route, including an assessment of the establishment of a State-owned company responsible for the planning and construction of the route. The KVU shall be completed by spring 2019 at the latest.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to conduct a draft selection inquiry for the Norwegian part of a modernised and strengthened rail link between Oslo and Gothenburg. [[KVU]] The KVU must be implemented in cooperation with the Swedish authorities. The KVU shall cover both passenger and freight traffic and shall consider different trajectory options. The KVU shall also include an assessment of different financing methods for the route, including an assessment of the establishment of a State-owned company responsible for the planning and construction of the route. The KVU shall be completed by spring 2019 at the latest.» These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4659	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to stop all plans for the expansion of the E18 West corridor beyond Lysaker-Beach, for which there is a local political agreement.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4686	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to contribute 70 pst. State financing of the collective projects in Oslopackak 3.’» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4739	It was also recommended that: 2nd@item: inlistbox The payment consents to allow the toll company to raise loans and to collect tolls for partial toll financing for the expansion of E16 Eggemoen-Jevnaker-Olum in Buskerud and Uppland. The conditions are set out in Prop. 72 S [[2017-2018]] 3rd@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Transport shall be empowered to conclude an agreement with the tolling company and to lay down detailed rules for the financial instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4746	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4762	During the debate Arne Nävra has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the planned four-field road between Ranheim and Åsen and to propose a road project between Ranheim and Åsen, which mainly follows the current trajectory, which leads up to two-three-field roads with middle parts and 90 km/h as a speed limit.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4793	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e4809	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a national smart-city strategy dealing with a safe and open smart-city infrastructure, including addressing the need for secure national data platforms and standards, and ensuring public ownership of data in order to secure the Community’s share of future value creation and provide a basis for future innovation’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to assess the need for a national funding scheme for smart city initiatives that reward cooperation projects and national scale local initiatives for 2019.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to launch a support programme for municipal potential studies on smart cities/municipalities in the context of the 2019 State Budget.» These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5136	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5146	The law decision is set up for the second time in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5204	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-8, by Jan Bøhler, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, by Jan Bøhler on behalf of the Labour Party proposal No 10, from Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 11-13, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to draw up legislative proposals to make health control at health centres mandatory for children through school health services, in order to facilitate the detection and prevention of violence and abuse against children.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5237	Proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the legislation with a view to proposing that: 1. legal protection is provided against women being subjected to the offence or offence in question when so-called plausibility certificates and non-compulsory checks are required before marriage, even when this is done in ways other than by health professionals. 2. proposals are made for the prohibition of sibling childhood on the basis of the fact that the Institute of Public Health has documented health problems in this respect and that it will have a significant impact on the extent of forced marriage and thus arranged marriage with mental stress.» The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5262	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to introduce national rules requiring: 1. there shall be no derogation from common swimming and common gymnastics and physical activity without there being a clear pedagogical justification. 2. participation in camp school is treated in the same way as the other education so that everyone participates, and provision is made for more involvement and information to parents on how much this means for integration and knowledge of nature and outdoor life.» The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5286	Proposal No. 2, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to: make the supervision and transparency of the arrangements in the schools of Quran and other religious communities part of the conditions for obtaining State aid. Important factors here should be the use of Norwegian language and the absence of the promotion of extreme attitudes and gender segregation from childhood.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5307	There is something else in the voting configuration. It's exciting when the Storting is better than the script. The proposal is therefore valid. Proposal No. 3 to 6 and points 8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to: 1. establish reporting procedures for schools, kindergartens, child protection, municipalities, county councils, Nav, etc. together to draw up concrete lists of children left behind in the country of origin of the family, so that the embassies can examine the situation of the Norwegian children in the countries for which they are responsible; 2. draw up a proposal for amendments to the Child Protection Act to make it possible for child protection to help children who are left abroad and to use their entire register of instruments, irrespective of the country in which the child resides. 3. Build knowledge and preparedness among all those working with children, so that they can early catch up with the signals and concerns that children can be sent out of the country and left there.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to: 1. clarify, in the form of legislative proposals or in the form of regulations, that social control may also trigger the obligation to provide information on the protection of children, in particular: Section 6-4 of the Children's Protection Act, and the abolition obligation, cf. the criminal law § 196. 2. develop a guide in an understanding of the obligation to provide information and to dissociate from the obligation of professional secrecy, so that the rules of the administrative law on professional secrecy do not prevent cooperation across the levels of work against social control and violence in close relations. 3. carry out a broad information campaign on the information, notification and removal obligation to make all persons working with children and the general public otherwise well aware of this.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that schools and health centres teach children in equality, that violence against children and the right to participation and consent in foreign residence, the right to free choice of partner and sexual orientation are prohibited.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce national guidelines to ensure that there is no derogation from common school and other public education services without a pedagogical justification.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that Decision 927 of the Enlarged Council to draw up clearer Nav guidelines is followed up.’ [[2015-2016]] The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5370	Proposal No. 7, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Norwegian imams and other religious leaders who have such training from abroad must be offered further training.’ The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5387	Proposal No. 11-13, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that students are not segregated on the basis of religion or gender in school without a educational purpose, or are necessary for practical reasons.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that restrictions are imposed on the funding of religious communities by States that do not practise religious freedom.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that support services are available to skippers from extreme environments.’ Right, Progress Party, Left, Environment Party The Greens and Reds have already supported proposal No. 11th@item: inlistbox The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have already subsidiary support for proposal No. 11th@item: inlistbox All parties have already given their support to the proposal No. 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5469	It's going to be over VII and VIII. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5483	It's going to be over X. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5497	It's getting wet over II. The Christian People's Party and Red have warned that they will speak against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5511	It shall be weighed over I, III, IV, V, VI and IX. The Christian People's Party has warned that they will protest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5529	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposed no. 2–6, by Jan Bøhler on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 7 and 8, by Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 9–16, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First, the proposal No. 9, 10, 12-14 and 16, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that family protection has adequate cross-cultural competence, in particular competence in social control and honor-related violence, and to ensure that parents and families who so wish, or where the need for assistance is reported, are offered appropriate parental training on different stages of childhood and youth that facilitate generational dialogue.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a legal investigation into the extent to which severe restrictions on the freedom and extreme control of young people are covered by and regulated by the Child Protection Act and the Criminal Code, for example by assessing how negative social control can be covered by the Criminal Code and whether a so-called "virgin check" is to be prohibited.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a stepping-up plan to establish low-threshold services, such as youth leisure clubs in all municipalities, emphasising that employees have sufficient competence in child and youth work in general, and minority and cross-cultural competences in particular, and returning to the Storting with the plan for the revision of the national budget.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose a legal right to help and follow-up for people who break out of families on the basis of negative social control and honor-related violence. Within specified time limits, an individual and comprehensive plan of action to meet needs shall be drawn up.’;» [[screams]] Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to require all municipalities to draw up binding local action plans against violence in close relations, including the fight against negative social control and honour-related violence.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government calls for the extension of the mandate of crisis centres to include follow-up in a restoration phase for those who have broken out in the context of negative social control, violence and honour-related violence, where necessary and appropriate. This must entail changes to the financial instrument.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5589	Proposal No. 11 and 15 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to tighten up legislation to limit parental transparency in communication between public authorities and children exposed to violence, abuse and negative social control.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the setting up of an expert group to prepare a package of measures consisting of assistance and support measures that may be relevant to people who need assistance after being subjected to negative social control or honorary violence. The action package shall include an overview of established offers available per year. the current date and new offers must be considered where necessary. Proposals for targeted actions for vulnerable boys must also be included in the mission of the expert group. Competence environments such as: Self-help for immigrants and refugees [[SEIF]] The Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5613	Proposal No. 7 and 8 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of cross-cultural competence in child protection, in particular knowledge of honor-related violence and negative social control, and ensuring that child protection has good practices for the work on these issues.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further development and extension of the ‘An issue of honour?’ project, in particular by strengthening and extending the role of the conflict councils in cooperation with police and child protection in this work, throughout the country.’ The Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5637	Proposal No. 2–6, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to monitor the functioning of the police safety assessment in matters based on negative social control and honour-related violence, to ensure the need for protection before the evaluation has been completed, and to propose a deadline for the safety assessment and provision of safe housing for people who have broken the family.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to extend the scheme with a minority counsellor in secondary education and make it permanent and predictable.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up national guidelines for dealing with non-school children, where there is reason to believe that children have been sent out of the country against their will. Schools must be required to report concerns about child protection and/or the police if they consider there is cause for concern for a child living abroad.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the time-frame for the possibility to make use of the housing and support services, from 6 to 9 months to 3 years, and to allow for the resumption of residence after interruption.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the system of integration advisers working with forced marriages in Norwegian embassies abroad to several embassies and several types of transnational negative social control and violence.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5677	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a package of measures consisting of assistance and support measures that may be relevant to people who need help after being subjected to negative social control or honorary violence. The action package shall include an overview of established offers available per year. the current date and new offers must be considered where necessary. Proposals for targeted measures for vulnerable boys must also be included in the mission.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5704	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5720	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposed no. 2–6, by Petter Eide on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Labour Party First, the proposal No. 2–6, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to publish the monthly statistics on how long children will have to wait in order to organise interrogations in the various police districts.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that children and young people and particularly vulnerable adults who engage in harmful sexual behaviour are interrogated at the State Children’s House. Children’s homes shall address the needs of the target population for risk assessment, investigation and emergency follow-up and emergency assistance. More extensive treatment needs to be provided by mental health protection. In the case of institution placement, risk assessment must be carried out and new abuses prevented in order to avoid any further abuse by the institution.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the work on border crossings permeates the overall work of kindergartens and schools, thus strengthening the long-term prevention of abuse.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to take concrete action to increase its knowledge of violence and abuse among those working with children.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to monitor the extent to which the municipalities have followed up the government’s recommendation to mobilise the municipal emergency services in the fight against violence in close relations and to take the necessary steps to ensure that the municipalities take the government’s call seriously.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5772	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to present a legislative proposal during the spring of 2018 to revise and clarify the health professionals Act § 25, first and third paragraphs.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5789	Proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to present a new concrete and committed action plan against violence against women and violence in close relations, which deals with children, adults, the elderly, vulnerable groups and minorities, and which is based on the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Violence in Close Relations, also known as the Istanbul Convention.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left, the Green and Red Environmental Party have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5887	First I, IV to VI, VIII, IX and XI to XV shall be contested. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5901	So it's going to be over II, III, and X. Right, the Progress Party and the Left have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5915	It's getting so wet over VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5936	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5952	During the debate, Frida Melvær presented a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Representatives of the Petter Eide, Audun Lysbakken, Karin Andersen, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Freddy André Øvstegård and Arne Nävra to complete the work of the panel to assess changes in emergency legislation – not adopted’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. The Green and Red Environmental Party has already given its support to the recommendation. The Left and Christian People's Party have every support for the proposal. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e5993	This case has been proposed by the Labour and Social Committee, except for proposals 1 and 3, which is proposed to be dealt with under point (e) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure. That means that it should be rejected. The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e6000	SV disagrees with the presidency's assessment and asks that the proposal, Document 8:233 S for 2017-2018, be dealt with under Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e6005	The Labour Party will indicate that we support the presidency's assessment and will therefore support what is in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e6010	We would also like from the Right to announce that we support both the rejection of proposals 1 and 3 and the referral to committee, as the Presidency proposes, and recommend that the Right-wing Group vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e6015	The Progress Party also supports the Presidency's decision to reject what has been proposed and to deal with what has been proposed in the Committee and recommends that the Progress Party group vote in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e6020	The central party supports the presidency's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e6025	The left also supports the presidency's position and will ask the representatives of the Left to vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e6030	The Christian People's Party supports the attitude of the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e6035	Then the parties – at least everyone has had the right to do so – have done well for how they submit to the presidency's proposal, and one can then vote on whether points 1 and 3 are to be dealt with. So the President's proposal is that both are rejected, as the Stortinget has taken a position on this earlier in the session, cf. Section 38, fifth paragraph of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e6048	SV has asked for paragraph 2 to be dealt with under Rule 39(c), i.e. without committee management, while the president's proposal is that the matter be sent to the Labour and Social Committee. The President assumes that the explanations of vote given are sufficient for one to know enough to be able to go to the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-29.ana.ud123e6075	This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting is over. Good home!
