ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e28	The so-called alternate of Oslo, Mats A. Kirkebirkeland, is now taking its seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e47	On Friday 18 May, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Siv Jensen, Frank Bakke-Jensen and Åse Michaelsen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e56	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. Last week we had a statement in Stortinget on the air conditioner for health in the north. I know that the Council of State has intervened in this matter, but it illustrated the importance of aircraft and helicopters for safety in the north. In the last few days, two of the Army Bell helicopters have flown for hospitals to support security. Liability in this area cannot be rented in or privatised. For people, especially along the coast, it is important to have a standby of air capacity and helicopters. Six of the new NH90 helicopters were intended for the Coast Guard based on Bardufoss. Now the head of defense wants all 14 helicopters to be given to the frigates based in Bergen. It leaves a coastguard without helicopters, and now it's told that a quarter of the Coast Guard helicopter pilots have stopped. So in addition, the government will reduce the Army's helicopters on Bardufoss from nine to three. The abandoned image is critical to the capacity of the Army in the north, which reduces its mobility, but also for the population. In February there was a fisherman in Troms who was rescued by the Coast Guard helicopters at Nord-Fugløya, and this year's Easter with bad weather also illustrated the importance of preparedness. This situation is unsustainable. The government says in its revised budget that alternative solutions to meet any unmet needs will be part of subsequent work. This is incomprehensible talk. My question to the Minister of Defense is, what action will he take to strengthen helicopter preparedness on a lasting basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e67	So first let me just spend a little bit of time clarifying the amount of flexibility. If the head of defense has to go to political leadership and say that the aid defense now provides health, will go beyond other defense preparedness, it will be a stability question for my part all the time my wife is employed in a company engaged in the air ambulance service up there. That's why we've been early on in terms of stability. So when it comes to the helicopter situation up there, I have all the opportunity to be on, and I am. Concerning the NH90: There we follow the time period that was laid down in 2012 by the then government. Then it was zeroed out, and then a timetable was created for how to phase in. We follow that timetable. It's still holding. So in the case of NH90, the head of defense has expressed other wishes. We haven't concluded that. We say that the Coast Guard should have capacities, we say that the frigate weapon should have capacities, and it says so. We are currently in line with the decisions taken in 2012. In terms of health, it is complicated, but where the situation improves – with a new call for tenders – now in June. Then there will be increased helicopter capacity, so that it will give a significantly better situation in the north. As far as Bell is concerned, I feel that there is a clear need, including in political Norway, to have a capacity that can drive counter-terrorism – that we can use the special forces in a counter-terrorism operation. It's up to them to be able to practice with, and the professionals say that for practice to be real, they depend on a capacity of 15 machines. When I say capacity, and when I say machines, it's about a hull, and it's about pilots and mechanics and all the skills you need to have around this to do the right thing. In the long-term plan, we have prioritised an anti-terrorism capacity, of necessity, all the time the security situation is like that. There we stand today, and that is the decisions we have promoted for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e80	I do not think this was a reassuring answer. What the council says, is that in the case of helicopters, both the frigates are going to get their own and the Coast Guard, that they just haven't decided. But the chief of defense has said that all the helicopters should go to the frigates. It's the technical board. But what does the government intend to do with that? A coastguard without helicopters is moving closer. The picture the Council of State draws is an army with no lifting capacity, quite simply, with three helicopters standing in the north to assist an army, pick up and injure, and intelligence missions there too – it's too little. Now two of the three are on behalf of Health-Norway. And this is an alert situation. If a quarter of the pilots of the Coast Guard helicopters have ended, it's because they see that there's no future in the Council of State telling us. And in the case of Bell, the government writes: ‘This will be very resource-intensive, mainly due to the need to employ and train more crews.’ This does not mean that we have planned to have helicopter capacity for the Army. This is critical. What signal is this for a modern army?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e95	The personnel situation is challenging. The defence experience from time to time in different sectors that there are challenging personnel situations, because there are attractive skills we are training in Defence. The Marine experiences it, the Army experiences it, the Air Force experienced it, that personnel are being pulled out and transferred to other jobs. You have to take that into account. There is also now the situation for the Air Force in the case of the helicopter pilots. This type of staff takes a long time to train, it's a limited resource, and we're taking that into account. So we know that the situation for the NH90 is not unknown, neither for this hall, it has been a complex and difficult operation. But in 2012 it was zeroed out. It was concluded that you could not cancel the contract. You put a race forward as we follow. We're also going to be able to fill in with personnel so that we can fly enough. And then, with the capacity that we want the special forces to have on counter-terrorism, they can complement the Army. If we're going to practice the other way around, the Army can't complement the special forces with capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e104	There will be follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e109	This government has been responsible in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and into 2018 – and there has been a critical shortage of helicopter personnel. The government itself writes that ‘primarily because of the need to hire and train more crews’, it is very resource-intensive. And it's not set of resources for that. Then the question is, how will this Army get signals that it gets lifting capacity? How are people in the north going to know that there are helicopters that can step in and save people who are in vulnerable situations? Now it is, among other things, also written in the revised budget that following up the police work of the Bell helicopters must end. It's black on white. So you report out of helicopter support to the police, and you can't follow up on Health Norway if you only have three helicopters, which are also going to help the Army. I am in favour of counter-terrorism in the capital area, but then it probably has to be acquired – whether there are hired helicopters, or used helicopters from an international market. But there has to be personnel training. It takes time, and the Council of State has not taken into account the answer he gives today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e116	It's wrong - the premise is wrong. We take into account the training of more personnel, but we make a clear priority: within what the personnel and the frameworks we have, we say that counter-terrorism for the special forces is the most important. Then we have made considerable efforts for the Army, so that we get a more modern army, which rolls more, which is present more. We're moving the defense back to Finnmark with the Army, we're doing significant upgrades on cavalry, we're doing significant upgrades on other personnel, so it's not right that this has gotten suspended and gone without us getting caught. We have reasonable control of the situation. But with limited resources, you have to make priorities. Yeah, then it looks like there's holes in other places. We've tried to compensate for that in other ways. In the Army, we're also going to complete a project in the course of the year where we can rent civil capacity to take part of the problems on helicopters that can be solved by civilians. So we're raising a significant capacity also in the north of the helicopter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e127	Jonas Gahr Støre – to new follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e132	Civil helicopters may fly out and in with materials in various operations, but civilians may not be used as shelters for military operations. But let me give you another example of the Army suffering here. This concerns the main defense system for the Army, namely tanks. In 2015, the government wrote: Army Leopard 2 tanks will reach their technical life by 2020 without upgrading. In the revised budget this year, the government writes that modern tanks have increased their relevance. And then comes the conclusion: no upgrade, no rental of new tanks – but the government will renew the tanks not until 2025, five years after they have passed the technical life span. So here we have an army without lifting capacity, without modern helicopters, without pilots and – we must believe – from 2020 to 2025 without tanks. How will the Council of State describe an army without helicopter support and without working tanks?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e147	First, I have to be allowed to correct the impression in the case of helicopters: the representative Gahr Støre calls for the defense's helicopter support for health and police, but these are tasks that can be solved by civil leasing. Basta! So to the army, when the land authority proposition was made, the commander of the army, Odin Johannessen, said, ‘The proposal takes up all the professional military advice from the Landmaktuðringen, and with this we get an army with all the necessary system components in a modern force. The only exception is the helicopters for which no room has been found within the financial framework.» So that's how we have people out there who are satisfied with the effort we're making, they're satisfied with the land power proposition we've made. We're about to modernise the defense. We are now building a brigade with three mechanized battalions. We deliver on one demand after another. We're on the right track. It's not like it's dusting down, and we're laying the land open. No, we build a defense so that we have peace and freedom in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e159	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e164	This government has constantly not delivered in respect of the Army, and it has postponed investigations. We had adopted a long-term plan here, where we were told that there was enough money, but that we just need a little more time to figure out what kind of tanks we really need. So the government now says – black on white – that there is no money for tanks. If the Minister of Defense really thinks the Army is satisfied, I think he should listen more. Life went out in 2020, the government said before. Now we're getting new tanks in 2025 at the earliest. When we negotiated a land-use plan in Stortinget just before Christmas, we were able to lease new tanks in 2019 to get this capacity earlier. Why did the government not inform the Storting that there was no money for new tanks?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e171	It's not that we haven't informed about it. The decision we made in the land traffic services was to check whether it was possible to rent or lease new tanks. It wasn't. So we said in the long-term plan that we were going to modernise the ones we had. Then the investigation shows that they won't be good enough for as long as we want tanks. Then we went into the land power proposition for an acquisition process, that we should acquire new, modern tanks. We're in the process of doing that. Also in this house you're a little concerned that acquisitions should follow rules and procedures, so we're sure we're doing the right thing. That's what we're doing right now. And then our investment line is so that from 2025 we can deliver new tanks. We have money for that. Then we have knowledge of what we need. Then it can go as it did with artillery. Suddenly, there's a hatch that makes it possible to do it earlier. I don't know, but we've started an acquisition process so we're going to know what we need on the day we might get that hatch, but from 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e178	After all, the Minister of Defence has not started a procurement process. The majority decided in 2012 to modernise all the tanks. Then it was put on hold. So it was a question of leasing, and now the government says "early 2025" because it's not enough money. It's not a government that bets on the Army. When we are examined in NATO on what we are good and bad, we get criticism on two points. One is the transition from old to new fighter planes. The second is that the Army is too thin, that it is too poor material. We can't have an army that gets tanks by 2025. What will the Minister of Defense do to meet the criticism we get from NATO that the Army is too thin and that the material is too poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e185	We're going to roll with the tanks we have until we get new tanks. And so it is that the acquisition of new tanks has started. But we're going to buy new, modern tanks, and then we want to know what's out there, what's most appropriate to buy. So to the NATO criticism: NATO has criticized us for having a brigade of three battalions, but where we don't have three mechanized battalions. The land force proposition we put forward does just that; it builds up a brigade so that we get three mechanized battalions. Then we answer that criticism from NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e195	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e200	When I belong to the Council of State, I think it's a piece from well said to well done. Today we have an army with no lifting capacity – helicopter – that will be even worse with what is to happen. Norway is the only NATO country that does not upgrade to modern tanks as we enter the year when our tanks are upgraded. We build a brigade, yes, with a 2nd battalion without people, just on a summons – a mobilization battalion. I don't understand that the Council of States can be especially proud of it. The last in 2015 warned the government that the Army without upgraded tanks would have significant weaknesses that could be exploited by an opponent. So now says that one early 2025 can get new tanks. Previously, there was a hint that one would have a new generation of tanks. Can the Government assure the Government that the government has now removed the option of waiting almost 20 years for the next generation of tanks?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e212	First, an army that has no capacity is a description I don't know about. What we've done is we're moving the Defense back to Finnmark – we're moving the Army back to Finnmark, we're building a battalion on Porsanger. It requires resources and it requires equipment. And then there was an acquisition, where the procedures showed that upgrading the tanks we had would not give us the capacity we needed over a long time. We've started an acquisition process. We need to find out what are modern tanks, what is the best purchase, what we get most for money – but also in modernity – over time. We say that we should be able to get new tanks from 2025, and we say that we should keep going the tanks we have until then. It is not that the tanks do not work on 1 January 2020. We're going to keep them going until we make a new acquisition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e221	Last week the committee was in Bardufoss and met the Army. We saw how they now pick from each other tanks to find parts to keep a part of the fleet going. We also know after a visit to Germany, after the State Secretary of the German Defence Ministry told us that Norway has been offered to join the upgrade that Denmark and Germany are currently doing. It was a very good offer, as I understood it, which it is now urgent to give notice. Why doesn't the government consider participating in the upgrade, which we now have the ability to be in? Why does he take the chance that Norway can also have upgraded tanks? Why should we, of all people -- we're not exactly the poorest country in the world -- be those who don't get the tanks up on the same digital platform so we can communicate with our new fighter planes, so we can communicate with the tanks, so we can actually get a combat system that works in a modern time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e228	First with spare parts. When we took over, we had five frigates – two served as spare parts, two sails and the last one was at the dock. It is not uncommon in Defense that when you step down, you move around on spare parts. It is also not uncommon in the case of tanks, that spare parts are used here and there. That's what makes the defense have their capabilities for a very long time. So to that with the "modern", why don't we jump in. It's just the priority of a modern capacity that makes us not upgrading the tanks we have, because their lifetime won't be long enough. That's why we've said in the Land Power Proposition that we should look for new ones, we should acquire new, modern tanks. We're now in the process of making that acquisition. And with regard to investment: we invest in submarines, we invest in P-8 surveillance aircraft, we spend a lot of money on new fighter aircraft, we invest in artillery for the Army, we buy salvage cars and bridge trucks, we buy new trucks for the Army – we invest a lot – and in that line, there are tanks from 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e238	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e243	In the situation in Norway, especially in the north, preparedness and development in the general north, what is happening in the health field and the overall sub-optimal solution that has been for the Army and helicopter support – it is especially that the Stortinget is presented with a budget from the government where the distribution of helicopters between the north and the south is 3 and 15, i.e. 3 in the north and 15 in the south. I really just want to ask the Council of State questions about that, and I sincerely hope that he can reason to us on the Stortinget about how one managed to arrive at just such a distribution between the north and the south: how can three helicopters in the north last the needs of the Army and the preparedness generally in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e250	I've answered the number 15. This is in order for the special forces to be able to exercise the anti-terrorism and counter-terrorism capacity we decided in the long-term plan that they should have. So professionals say that they need so many machines -- so many crews -- around this to practice properly, to build that capacity. The capacity the special forces need to train, exercise, supplement the Army with, then you can also fly for the Army. But the other way around, it won't work. No one disagrees with the fact that the Army could have made use of more helicopters, but when we need to prioritise within a limited framework, that's this priority we've done. The Storing Decision says we're going to split, we're going to have helicopters in the north, but at the same time we're going to give the special forces the capacity they need to operate the anti- and counter-terrorism operation. It's given the distribution key we're now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e257	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e262	There is no one here who disagrees that we need to have a good preparedness for terror in the south, there are all quite a few in it. But when you come to meet the need from the professional staff in the south about how to maintain the preparedness for terrorism there, and then until those degrees reject the need for preparedness in the north, that's the big question: how is this going to work? So, three helicopters -- let's say two are in repair and one hull is in the air for some time. In the situation in general, when it comes to Northern preparedness: how does the Minister of Defence think this should be resilient? How do we have a real preparedness in the north with one helicopter in the air at any time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e267	I've also answered that earlier. I say that while we've done the distribution so that we get the counter-terrorism capacity we need, we also implement a project where we're going to lease in civilian capacity that can take some of the tasks the defense should have, where you don't necessarily have to use Bell helicopters. So a new helicopter offer within the health area will enter into force in June. Then there is extra capacity in the north so that the health area itself can take on the tasks that they will be able to take. Gradually, the new rescue helicopters come with a completely different capacity than what we have today. The police have agreed with LOS helicopters, so it will be possible to use them when necessary and appropriate. So a significant helicopter capacity is also being built outside the Defense, both in the north and in the south. That's why I think we're going to be able to solve the civil problems that preparedness says we have to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e274	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e279	The Christian People's Party did not agree on the long-term plan, which was between the Workers' Party and the Right-Fremskrit Party-government. We believed that the Army and the Home Office should be given higher priority in order to ensure a more balanced defence. But just before Christmas, the Christian People's Party also joined the consensus, where we worked with the best possible solution for the country power within the given framework. And in December, the majority ordered the government for helicopter solutions between Bardufoss and Rygge, modern tanks and 2nd Battalion in Troms. Unfortunately, the government's answers have been revised in disparaging terms – not least, as several have been involved, the helicopter solutions applicable to the Army in the north. Helicopters are indispensable to a modern army, not least in the topography that is in North Norway. The army has been dedicated to helicopter support ever since 1964. So now the government offers suggestions with only three Bell helicopters on Bardufoss. Does the Minister of Defense and the Government want – is it willing – to sit down with the parties that agreed on the land power and find a good solution that is satisfactory for a modern army?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e286	When the government presents the revised national budget to the Stortinget, it is clear that one wants to negotiate the issues in the Stortinget. But we believe that we have followed up the decisions that were made when we presented the land-use proposition. The decision asked that it be a shared solution, and the decision asked us to deliver a capacity with which the special forces were earned in terms of the capacity we are to build on counter-terrorism. It sets a framework for how we prioritise helicopters in the north and in the south. Then we've done some compensatory measures in terms of the picture for the entire helicopter operation you have in the north, and I think we're responding well. When you have to give priority, you have to give priority, but we have built up a considerable army capacity in these years we have been in government. So this is an army that is'stuck', I don't agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e293	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e298	With the Chairman of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, as Minister for Finance and Fee, the fees in Norway increased by 6 600 million. kr – i.e. not every month, not every week, but every day the fees have increased by 4 million. kr. - Four million. kr every day for four and a half years. In addition to the fees, additional fees will be added, such as the introduction of the so-called death fee, which will bring in 40 million. extra kr in the treasury. The party has become the party for increased fees and increased fees for people most, or as Prime Minister Erna Solberg proudly said, the government, the Right Party and the Advance Party, have increased fuel charges more in one year than in eight red-green years. Before Christmas, the Advance Party, Right, Left and Christian People's Party increased the fees for non-alcoholic beverages by 42 pst. and the so-called sugar charge of 83 pst. – a massive tax increase affecting Norway’s largest mainland industry with full force. The enterprise by enterprise reports red figures and market failures. Several companies have had to cancel people, they've licensed people, investments have stopped. NHO Food and Drinks say it's been 10 pst. cases of placing on the market in important parts of the Norwegian food industry and the Norwegian food industry. This has been a charging policy aimed at shifting jobs and value creation from Norway to Sweden. Progress Party leaders and Finance Minister Siv Jensen have now come with their revised national budget. The alarm lights light up, it's red light, while the Progress Party leader is doing nothing to correct the crisis that is now affecting Norway's largest mainland industry. My question to the Council of State is: How much loss and how many jobs in industry will be lost before Jensen acts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e308	I am a little uncertain about what the representative Schlagsvold Vedum means that the alarm lights light up and that there are red lights. When we presented the revised budget, the government could report on an economy that is going well. Unemployment is on the decline, growth is on the rise, employment is on the rise, broad growth is reported in all industries throughout the country — broadly based. That's good news. I answered a question about a sugar charge and a shower exactly one week ago, from the Senter party. Nothing has happened in particular in the pins that changed the answer I gave a week ago. But what I challenged the Centre Party in my answer a week ago was why the Senter Party, on the one hand later, as they are concerned about border trade issues – then related to exactly this charge – while they are not as concerned with what is the main driver of border trade, namely food and meat, which is not subject to high excise duties, but with a customs protection, which the Centre Party has been pursuing for many years, and which makes food in Norway more expensive. In addition, the Central Party has proposed in its alternative budgets to increase taxes on other goods subject to border trade, such as: alcohol and tobacco. It's nice to be morally indignant about one fee sharpening, but double morality is not the same as twice as good morality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e319	I understand that Minister of Finance and Fee Siv Jensen does not want to comment that she has increased the fees in Norway by 4 million. kr every day since she became the Council of State, and that the Progress Party in the Government has increased diesel taxes more in one year than under eight red-green years, because it is absolutely amazing that the fees have now increased by 6 600 million. kr. And the problem with fees increases is that it affects people the most. It has no distribution effects; it has a negative distribution effect, for those who have low income, pays as much tax as one who has high income, so it's fundamentally unsocial. Then the Center Party has done targeted actions to strengthen Norwegian industry. That is why we had good customs protection — to create jobs, to bring value to Norway. That is why we have a charging policy that does not target shifting jobs from Norway to Sweden. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen should attend a meeting with NHO Food and Drink and hear about the situation in the food industry. Does the Minister of Finance think it is wise for Norway to have such extremely high taxes — and the huge increase in fees that occurred before Christmas — when jobs are lost in Norway because of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e326	Let me first remind you that these tax increases came about as part of the budget negotiations in Stortinget, this was not a proposal the government put forward to the Stortinget. That being said, this government has reduced the total tax burden by over 24 billion. kr. It is a handshake to ordinary families, to Norwegian business, which is about strengthening competitiveness, about facilitating more jobs, and is about an average family getting NOK 10,000 less in taxes under this government than under the government Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum put in. It's a fact. So it's true that some charges have increased within a total relief of 24 billion. These include some environmental taxes, which have been sought by a large majority in the UK. Overall, however, car-related charges have decreased by 1.9 billion. kr. It has been important in recognizing that the car is an important means of making progress in our long-term country. Therefore, it has been important for the government — yes, to increase environmental taxes, but overall to reduce tax burden in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e335	It opens for follow-up questions – first Sigbjørn Gülsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e340	The finance minister doesn't know that it's the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party together that have been involved in introducing the tax shock that came before Christmas, and it's also the majority that is behind that it's been 6.6 billion. NOK in net increased fees since accession. So the government is completely passive in a situation where people lose their jobs, where investments are put on ice, where traditional companies like Oskar Sylte and Roma say it can be the hook on their doorstep. They say Norwegian business is going well. Well, the blue-blue government has provided blood-red numbers in the sectors that are affected here. The last update shows that the industry itself expects that it can be sold shower for 130 million. liters in Sweden, an increase of perhaps between 30 and 40 pst. How long does the Council of State think it makes sense to sit passive and see that this happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e345	I know that the government I'm part of has reduced the total tax and tax burden by 24 billion. kr since we joined. It is in stark contrast to the alternative central government budgets. When the Central Party proposes to increase the overall tax and tax burden by over 6 billion. kr only in one year, it becomes – when I hear the Central Party complains about this now – like listening to a pyromaniac shouting at the Fire Service. It's simply not for believers. This government is committed both to strengthening the framework conditions for business and to strengthening the family economy by reducing tax and tax burdens, and we have done so. But we have also always been quite clear that, within an overall scheme where we reduce the overall tax burden, we have increased some environmental taxes. It's about the polluter-pays principle, and I actually thought that the Senter-Party agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e350	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e355	Fuel prices in Norway are now at a historically high level. Siv Jensen had our state council for only a few days in 2013 when she first increased the fuel charges. The page has continued. In 2017, it went so far that the government called in to the press conference and boasted that they had increased the fees more in one year than the red-green did in eight years. The result is that most people and businesses around the country now experience. Minister of Fee Siv Jensen likes to answer these questions by talking about everything else – about the annual tax, property tax, boat engines or what it might be. Today I hope that the party leader in the Progress Party can answer questions about fuel prices. My question is: does the Minister of Finance think that a petrol price of almost SEK 17 is acceptable, and is there a pain limit for the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e360	It's not like I'm talking about everything else. I'm busy talking about the whole thing, and it's about what kind of framework conditions we equip Norwegian businesses with. Therefore, it has been important for this government to reduce the total taxes and taxes in Norway by over 24 billion. kr. Then it is true that the fuel taxes have been set up one year, and they were reduced in 2015, but overall, car-related taxes have decreased by almost 2 billion. kr under this government. The representative asks about the fuel prices. Well, I can take responsibility for a lot of things, but that the price of oil on the world market has now reached $80 barrel, there is very little the finance minister in Norway can do anything about it. Stakeholders in the industry themselves point to the growth of global market prices that is now raising fuel prices. But I agree that it is important that it must be possible for people to get along with their cars. Therefore, it has been important for us to change the car tax policy, so that fuel consumption goes down. That's what this government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e367	Svein Roald Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e372	The Council of State said that the revised national budget is reporting a good economy, and it is good that unemployment falls. But what has given the economic boost strength, according to the government's own documents, is low interest rates, weak crowns and responsible wage settlement. None of this is due to government policy. On the other hand, it is a fact that the government’s tax policy has led to the loss of many jobs: the airline seat charge – several hundred jobs lost in Eastfold and elsewhere. The sugar levy now threatens jobs in the food and beverage industry. And duty-free online trade for less than 350 kroner is subsidising jobs abroad at the expense of jobs at home. The question is: why does the Minister of Finance not want to close this tax gap and strengthen Norwegian jobs before even more disappear in the wake of government tax policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e380	In his estimation of the reasons why the Norwegian economy is doing better, the representative Hansen elegantly jumped over another important factor, namely the expansionary fiscal policy of the government in connection with the oil price drop. It has certainly also helped to ensure that we quickly got through a difficult situation for the Norwegian economy, which has now turned to growth, optimism, more jobs, more employed, lower unemployment and growth in the economy. We're going to enjoy that. It becomes very strange for me to hear the Workers’ Party – of all – talk about tax cuts. There is hardly any batch in this room that proposes to increase taxes and taxes more than the Workers' Party. The Labour Party opted to increase taxes by billions of dollars – and lost the election because of it. I stand by what this government has done, reducing the total tax and tax burden by 24 billion. kr – to strengthen the business environment, in order to strengthen the family economy for the individual. 10 000 kroner in tax bills for an average family is a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e389	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e394	When you hear this round, it is worth remembering that in its time, the Centre Party increased the charges for non-alcoholic beverages as much as it has been done, and the Center Party's own health policy, Kjersti Toppe, has repeatedly insisted on increasing the price of soda and candy, which I think makes sense. I think it's backwards to reduce the price of booze and candy – in the same way it's with alcohol and tobacco. These are, of course, the major public health challenges we have in this country. We have to do something about this. At the same time, the Christian People's Party is committed to strengthening value creation in Norway. I don't want there to be any growth in the shower sale and the candy sale and get more jobs because of that. That's not my goal. My goal is to secure jobs and generate growth in the country. We see that there is a loophole that I think would have been a good idea to close – if you order goods online in Norway, you have to pay VAT from the first crown, but if you order the same goods, for example. chocolate and shower, from abroad, you don't have to pay VAT, i.e. 25 pst. Discount. I think that's nice. Does the Council of State agree that one should at least look at and determine whether it is possible to seal the dirt hole?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e403	I fully agree with the representative Ropstad that one of the most important things we do is to facilitate safe jobs in Norway. This government has done so, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, by strengthening the framework conditions for Norwegian business, by reducing the overall tax burden, by strengthening the appropriations for infrastructure, by investing in research, competence and knowledge in school. The sum of it has produced good results over the years we have been in government. As for what the government will or will not do in the next budget, we must be allowed to come back to it when we present the government budgets. It is in the ordinary state budgets that the major review of different tax issues is made. We have just presented the revised budget. It's essentially an arena where we adapt maps and terrain.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e410	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e415	I don't like to say "What did I say?" but what we see now with increased border trade is exactly what Red warned against in December. Red has no problems with social change, but they must be thoughtful and democratically anchored. That is why we proposed postponing the increase in fees to assess the impact on jobs in the food industry – the Progress Party agreed to vote down in December. But then the news came from the National Meeting of the Progress Party: They wanted to refuse the sugar levy, they said. Then came the revised national budget, where Siv Jensen came with zero measures to do something about the sugar levy. This is not a unique case. We heard from the same national meeting that the Progress Party is the Seafarers' Party. Then came the budget – without any action to change the problem of Color Line and deflagration to NIS. Is this what we can expect from the Advancement Party in the future, that the party says one thing and then does the opposite, and that they consistently talk out of both mouths?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e424	I can assure the representative of Moxnes that the Progress Party will do everything we can, in government and in Stortinget, to follow up as closely as possible on our policies and our party programme. At the same time, we are in a coalition government that – at the top of it – is a minority government that has to negotiate solutions in Stortinget. The Progress Party will always be concerned with lowering the overall tax burden in Norway. We've also proven that we're doing through what we've done since we've been in government -- a reduction of 24 billion. NOK is quite a lot of money. I think the representative of Moxnes has misunderstood a little what is revised and what it is not. It's a round bend where we adapt maps and terrain based on what has happened in the Norwegian economy since we arrived and got the government budget adopted in the autumn. The major budgetary issues relate to the State budget, which comes in October.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e433	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e438	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. Today we can read in the address that St. Olav’s hospital in Trondheim now has to sell three properties, including: its own important patient hotel, to finance a new building for psychiatry. So they've cut so much that they have to sell away property. This government has had more money available than any other government, but it is now cut in the hospitals, and there are consequences. The government’s red tape and efficiency reform is thefine name. In reality, the unpriority cheese needs to be in the welfare sector. Since 2015, it's cut close to 9 billion. kr in public activities and welfare. The consequences include: reducing the response to work-life crime. The Labour Inspectorate has cut more than 10 million. They are warned that they must reduce the risk of accident prevention, ergonomics, chemistry and psychosocial problems. In the case of the courts, you give with one hand and take with the other, and the cut-off is 51 million. kr only in the last few years. And the court administration and local courts now warn that the cuts lead to cuts in services and not in bureaucracy. In a time when very many people are out of work, the appropriations for Nav are cut. According to NTL Nav, the cuts will lead to 690 million. kr less in the operating budget, which corresponds to 1 100 fewer employees whose cuts are continued to 2021, as the government warns. We already know that the government has no idea what the results of the tax cuts of the rich have been. They spend billions on something they are not able to document has a positive impact on the Norwegian economy. So today, I would like to know if the Minister of Finance has examined how it goes with those who get these flat cheese matches, whether they've investigated the effect of the welfare cuts. Has the government talked to the Labour Inspectorate, to the courts, to Nav and to the hospitals about what is actually the consequences of the policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e453	Initially, Kaski referred to various health business issues. I would ask you to address those questions to the Minister of Health who addresses them. I perceive that the question is primarily about red tape and efficiency reform, and I would like to respond to that. There is a reform this government introduced quite early in our period, where the whole point is to extract efficiency gains from state agencies. Now we're going to get about 1.7 billion. Every year we can spend on increasing well-being, strengthening the hospital economy, strengthening the community economy, strengthening the police budgets and strengthening the transport budget to mention something. I think it is very strange that SV is opposed to a reform, where the whole purpose is to streamline our bureaucracy, release resources, manage taxpayers' money in the best possible way so that we free up resources to strengthen our own well-being. I disagree with the claim that this reform leads to welfare protection – it is rather the opposite. This is a government that has systematically ensured the welfare arrangements, strengthened the well-being of our country, while getting through a difficult situation for the Norwegian economy in the wake of the oil price drop. Then it has been important and necessary to bring growth up, to reduce taxes. I'm standing by. It is not right, as the representative Kaski claims, that the main focus of the government is on giving tax credits to the rich. No, we have done what has been an international recommendation from the OECD, and which we got from our own tax range, we have reduced corporate tax and reduced taxes on labour, which are the most growth-promoting instruments, and that is documented. The fact that we have reduced the tax, along with other instruments, has helped to speed up the Norwegian economy again, and that unemployment is falling and employment is rising. We're going to enjoy that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e464	I don't think I could hear that I got some good answer as to whether the government actually follows up the consequences of its own policy. And it's not a claim that it leads to cut, it's a statement. When you take 9 billion. It has consequences away from hospitals, Nav and the State Radiation Protection Agency. Among other things, in the budget papers from health companies, we see that hospitals have to cut. For example, the Hospital Inland writes in the 2017 budget that it needs to be cut in the field of mental health. At Ahus, millions are saved on having newborns and families sent out of the hospital earlier. In criminal matters, cuts go beyond the number of employees, maintenance and provision of training for the prisoners, while we see an increase in violence and threats to the employees. This is the responsibility of this Minister of Finance. That is the reform of the Minister of Finance. My question -- let me repeat it: Is the government interested in investigating the consequences of these cuts, what are actually the effects of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e472	This is a reform that facilitates the planning and predictable operation of state agencies for their activities. I expect from all state businesses that they are committed to streamlining, that they are committed to reducing bureaucracy, that they are committed to freeing resources, so that they can improve their operation. That's the whole of the government's budgets, which means something. We've been strengthening the hospitals' finances every year since we've been in government. We've strengthened the police budgets. We got rid of the prison queues. We've taken care of the welfare systems through the devices we've been using. Of course, it's an honest thing that SV's response to all the challenges we're going to face in the future is just to spend more money on everything. I think it's a very bad answer to taxpayers, who should expect politicians from us to keep their money in the best possible way. Then we have to be concerned about picking up efficiency gains.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e481	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kari Elisabeth Kaski.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e486	What I'm asking is whether the government has investigated the consequences. We don't get any answers as to whether you're actually interested in it. It seems from the Minister of Finance that it is only found that efficiency gains are obtained – but it is known with respect not to report. Now both employees and trustees in the various places where it is being cut warn that the cuts have great consequences. Unfortunately, these consequences are not more effective or bureaucratic, but less services for society and for the most part for people. There will be fewer employees, longer waiting and processing times, and the necessary services will be damaged. The Managing Director of the Children’s Ombudsman says that for them the effect is rather opposite. The Brønn Island Health Registers report an increase in the volume of cases and an increase in the length of proceedings. State radiation protection answers no to the question of whether there will be less bureaucracy. My question to the Minister of Finance is: have you really looked at whether this will make the public sector more efficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e493	There are many examples of establishments that, through the predictability of this reform, can think in the long term, can think for years to come, can implement measures that improve efficiency, and where profits are systematically obtained in enterprises. I think much more businesses have to do that, simply because this is about how we manage taxpayers' money. This government has on several occasions informed the Storting that in the time to come we will have tighter budgets. If we are to continue to safeguard welfare systems, continue to facilitate growth in some areas that are important, both for the government parties and for the Storting, we need to pick up action spaces somewhere. We must then be looking for improvements in efficiency. We need to debureaucratize. We have to slim down the public sector, and we have to be able to pick up the gains. That is what the government has done through this red tape and efficiency reform. I'm waiting in suspense for other proposals from the Stortinget. So far we've only received proposals for expenditure increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e502	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e507	This government has – as we have heard earlier today – given 25 billion. kr in tax reliefs, mainly to the richest of us, while oil money consumption has been record high. The public sector should be streamlined. It should be digitised. But it requires a long-term willingness to invest, to invest in learning, to invest in investment in continuing education, in machinery and equipment. Flat cut is the opposite of this. In a case from January this year in the newspaper, the Ministry of Finance refuses to evaluate these cuts, but it is announced that they will be continued every year – without the government being interested in the consequences, even in terms of efficiency improvement. Then my question is to the Minister of Finance: why does the government not want to know what the consequences of the so-called reform, these flat cuts? It's established that it's successful, but the government doesn't know it. I wonder why the government does not want to evaluate this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e516	All government councils and ministries follow up the impact of this in their administrative areas. Then the representative Kaski comes with a blatant claim, that the government has essentially given tax relief to the rich. There is a claim that is repeated and repeated from Stortinget, but it is still wrong. It is such that most of the reliefs that this government has provided have been personal tax reliefs. But we've also given priority to giving relief to business, because we know that it works. We have done this both by reducing corporate taxes and by reducing property taxes. We're going to continue to be concerned with keeping the lowest tax burden in Norway because it's about the competitiveness of our businesses, because it's about allowing most people to keep more of their own income. When an average family has received NOK 10 000 in tax bills under this government, there is money. I don't think these are families that see themselves as the richest in our society. We're going to keep the tax pressure down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e527	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e532	The Minister of Finance may stand still. The Norwegian economy has had a strong development since the 1990s. This is due not only to high oil prices and a good trading relationship with the rest of the world, but also to a good population composition, which means that many have been working. Now it turns around. We have a grey shift. We are getting older, and birth rates have recently fallen dramatically, from 1.98 children per woman in 2009 to 1.62 children per woman in 2017, which is the lowest birth rate ever measured in Norway. This has great consequences. Although children provide public expenditure in the form of kindergartens, family policies and schools, it is more expensive for society to have a high proportion of older people in the population to have pensions, health care and care for the elderly. Fewer young people reduce the workforce and also the consumption, and fewer young people come up with new ideas and create new businesses. It is good for Norway that more children are born in this country. It's good for the economy, and it's good for the future's older people, who need warm hands in the care of the elderly. If you are in your 20s and have children, it's like today that a person is almost seen a little strangely. And if one chooses to have more than three children, it's completely incomprehensible. If you choose care for your own children rather than prioritizing your own career, people shake their heads. For the Christian People's Party, the family is the basic cell of society. The family is a value in itself and is crucial for society and for the quality of life of the individual, that is, completely independent of economic considerations. But since it is the Minister of Finance who is here, I would like to point out that good family policies are also good social economy. Research thus shows a link between the comprehensive family policies of the Nordic countries and slightly higher birth rates of the same countries than in many other European countries. Does the Minister of Finance agree that the importance of family policy for birth rates is one of several good reasons why we need to strengthen family policy in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e549	This is certainly strictly a question which should have been asked to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, but a little overall, I can agree with the representative Roppstad on the importance of the welfare arrangements we have for the families with children in Norway. We have good maternity leave schemes, or parental leave schemes, we have recently increased one-off support for those who have not earned parental pension rights, we have cash support, we have child benefit, we have cheap kindergartens, and the sum of these are schemes that have facilitated increased equality in Norway, so that more women have been able to get out of work – schemes that, at least, do not stand in the way of the choice of childbirth. So what's the reason we've seen lower birth rates in the first quarter, the Minister of Finance is going to be a little careful to respond to. But I am aware that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has ordered a report from the Statistical Central Bureau to look at how fertility affects the social economy in a longer-term perspective. It's a report that I think will come at the turn of the year, and that can certainly provide interesting findings that both the government and the Christian People's Party can benefit from reading about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e554	I thank you for your answer. It is important that the Minister of Finance does not just lean on the Minister of Child and Family Affairs, although I know that much of the responsibility lies there, because it would be demanding for the Minister of Finance to get the budgets up if the birth figures are too low. That is why I believe that what the Minister for Finance has to do is important measures. She mentions e.g. the one-time carpentry. Since birth rates have dropped so much, one wonders – and researchers ask themselves – whether people don't have as many children as they really want. Much of the reason might be the joyous fact that more women are taking higher education, and that they are thus postponing to have children. But there's also an injustice in the birth grant scheme, because if you're a student or you're just finished studying and having children without a job, one can only get a few $63 000 in one-off social benefits, while if you've come to work and started to earn rights, a few hundred thousand can pay. Many people say they're taking abortion because they don't have the financial security to bring up children. Does the Council of State agree that one-off social benefits can be a scheme that one should increase even more?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e562	At least I agree that we have a lot of good and rusty arrangements for families with children in Norway, so at least we can't say that that's why birth figures evolve in the direction they do. The OECD has just presented a report which makes it clear why the Nordic countries are as advanced in the field of equality as they are. This is due, inter alia, to: This. So there is no lack of good and well-functioning welfare arrangements for families with children that is our problem. The challenge of demography, i.e. population development, in Norway we have been familiar with a long time. We spent quite a lot of time substantiating this also in the context of the perspective announcement, and we know that we're going to get more older in the time to come. It's essentially positive. There are several older people who live longer, who live a good life, who can live in owner-occupied housing much longer – it's very positive. But it is true that over time more of the room for action will be seized in the budgets. So we have to give priority to that, make sure the old good conditions rather than perhaps spending even more money on families with children, who already have good arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e569	There will be follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e574	Then it's tempting to come forward Kåre Willoch, who very often points out that the economy of families with children is weakened, for example. child-responsiveness and other things. I do not entirely agree that we do not also need to raise the finances of families with children, but I agree that it is difficult to point out one reason why birth rates have become so low. What is most striking is perhaps the sum of all the schemes that have to be present. I think it would be important to make changes that ensure more full-time jobs for women, more permanent jobs for women, and that a better way of getting into the housing market. I think maybe one of the most important things is that you have security and predictability, stability around family life, and that one can choose to have children in the past. I think some reason is that someone chooses to postpone this for so long, and then maybe it keeps with a child less than that one could initially really think. But as politicians, we also need to make sure that one chooses to have the last child. Do the Councils agree with those considerations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e579	The finance minister should be very careful about wondering what is the cause of the choices that our different families take – they almost have to answer for themselves – but I don't think it's due to the lack of good arrangements for families with children. I agree that we must facilitate fewer involuntary part-time. It also shows the recent OECD report that we can pick up an even greater potential for growth in the Norwegian economy if more hours are worked. Much of the answer then lies in getting more women in full-time jobs, and then we have to do something about the involuntary part-time, which we might see in particular in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e584	Let's move on to a new main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e589	One of Siv Jensen's proposals in the revised budget is a tax change for foreign workers in the short term. Instead of completing the ordinary tax return, they will pay a flat tax of 25 pst from next year. Red is for simplification, and I also see the reason that those who work here for short periods of time should be able to pay their taxes without too much plunder. But why does Siv Jensen propose a tax cut that gives a competitive advantage to foreign workers? The ministry writes that the change will lead to 50 million. SEK less in tax revenue to the community next year – 50 million. kr that non-resident workers pay in taxes today, but which they do not pay to next year, thanks to Siv Jensen's proposal. This is, in fact, tax subsidies for temporary workers in a situation where more than 100000 workers and workers are out of work in Norway. LO is worried. I get that. In the consultation round, the LO clearly stated that they are too simplified, as Red, but emphasises the importance of setting the rate high enough, so that there is no tax competition between workers living in Norway and workers on short-term contracts. In addition, we know that temporary employment is an obscurity that is falling under the Progress Party and the Right Government, which absolutely does not need to strengthen a tax subsidy targeted at temporary tasks. I wonder: why is the rate set so low that it gives a real tax cut, when the simplification would be just as simple if the rate were set higher?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e596	Let me first say that what the government has done about changing the tax rules for foreign workers, is not a tax subsidy, and it is not supposed to be. It is primarily justified in the creation of errors, which has also been pointed out by the National Audit Office with all possible clarity. This is a proposal that has been put to the hearing. Both the NHO and the LO have expressed their views on it and have been concerned about the rate. The NHO was well concerned that the rate would be lower than that of the government. LO said they thought the rate should be something higher. That's why we've put ourselves at a rate of 25 pst, which is equal to the rate that we've introduced in Sweden. Then it is also important to say that you can choose this scheme, where you tax gross earnings at one rate without deduction. But one can also choose not to go for that scheme, and we are obliged to do so in order to comply with the provisions of EEA law. But this is primarily a cleaning-up in a problem that was subject to a lot of errors, and with which we had to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e601	When travelling workers are left with more pay after tax than their colleagues, who have a regular job in Norway, they will be able to accept a lower salary and become more attractive to employers, and this may put pressure on wages and salaries — downwards. In the spring, Siv Jensen has tried to produce the Progress Party as the Labour Party, but why does the Progress Party strike workers in Norway by providing a competitive advantage to foreign workers – at the top of a headless increase in the sugar levy, which affects Norwegian jobs – and dumping Norwegian jobs at sea by allowing shipowners to replace 700 Norwegian seafarers with foreign workers employed on local terms? Is social dumping the way the Progress Party supports workers in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e608	Here the representative mixes quite a number of ingredients in the sauce before serving it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e613	Then it'll be good!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e618	No, you have to be careful to balance the ingredients of a sauce, otherwise it can be quite uncomfortable, and so you don't have to mix as many relationships as the representative Moxnes is doing. I am against social dumping, and this government has taken many steps to sort out working conditions in Norway for Norwegian workers, and we will continue to do so. We have also strengthened efforts to combat crime at work, and we have provided flexibility for workers in Norway. What was the original question to the representative of Moxnes was related to this special scheme, in which the government has made changes – because we have been asked to do so, because the Riksrevision has pointed out that there is a system that has significant weaknesses. It is primarily a system that corrects it, and has nothing to do with how the remuneration is done in the individual enterprise. So I think we're going to be careful to mix too many relationships together in this sauce of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e628	It opens for follow-up questions – Sigbjørn Gülsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e633	One does not escape the fact that this proposal implies a two-tier system in which Norwegian workers are required to pay full taxes, while non-resident workers must therefore be able to choose which tax they are subject to. Thus, foreign workers should be able to choose the amount of tax that gives them the lowest level of taxation, an option that Norwegian workers do not get. It implies, as stated in the proposition, a tax subsidy on non-resident workers. There will be a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian workers. In its first response, the Council of State shows that one of the reasons for doing so is imposed by the EEA Agreement. Is this the real reason why you have done this, or does the government feel at home that this is a sensible measure to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e640	There was at least one measure it was necessary to clean up, all the time the Riksaudition has pointed out that we had to make changes to it, and because we had to try to find a device that also responded to the requirements that we are faced with regarding the EEA Agreement. I think we've been able to do that. But then – and we also write that in the material for Stortinget – there is considerable uncertainty about the proceeds of this. But the goal of the government, which was also the basis for the hearing that was out, was not that this should be a tax subsidy or provide tax revenue. It was supposed to be a neutral system that cleaned up this. And let me remind you what we've proposed, so it's a gross tax without any right to deduction. Gross taxation without deduction. But you can choose to get taxed according to the same system that you and I and everyone else in this country are taxed after, and I think that answers the EEA legal obligations we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e647	Let's move on to a new main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e652	My question goes to the Minister of the Elderly, as the first in history. A short time ago, the senior minister presented his retirement message, Live all his life. Well, that's what we all hope to do, safely and well, also the day we need help to master everyday life. When the council presented her retirement bet, she said that there were no new paragraphs and no new appropriations, but that we have some carrots – not a whole field, but a nice bundle. Last week, the Health Directorate presented the first waiting lists of elderly people waiting for a day’s care throughout the country. The figure was 1,420 older people, and in the evening post today we can read that there have actually been 826 fewer places of good luck in the care of the elderly in the last ten years. The government of Solberg has ruled in five of these. Then my question becomes to the Minister of the Elderly: What kind of carrots does she have in order to secure the elderly who need the care of a lucky day, the security they need to live their whole lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e661	This government has launched many measures. We've both increased the amount of grants for the construction of new nursing homes, we've spent extra money in each framework, and we've been very focused on the investment grant. So it's the individual municipality that's responsible for starting construction of new hospitals. In view of the commitment framework, we have already reached 13 100 places, and 99 pst. has been exploited by that framework during the period in which that government has held, or from 2013 to 2017. Former governments may have been up to 60-66 pst. What is important to us is that the municipalities recognise the need to start building new hospitals, sees the increase that will come and also facilitates those who want to live at home in different ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e670	As the Council of State says, the municipalities are building these places. Then we know that the municipalities have to plan for these investments. That is why it was in the Count's time that the State contributed this grant. Now the numbers presented before the weekend and today show that you are at a very close range. The size decided earlier this year to equalise rehabilitation and new buildings, in order to increase capacity. In addition, the majority of the population, consisting of the opposition, have also decided to increase the State contribution so that municipalities can develop day-to-day spaces. Because, as the Council of State itself says, day-care facilities are also important for people with dementia in particular to be able to stay at home as far as possible. What is the status of these decisions from Stortinget, and when can municipalities get a clear signal to deploy daily spaces with 50 pst. State aid, and to rehabilitate double rooms for single rooms, which is also planned in many municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e677	The request decision has come to us, and we take that very seriously. We will come back to this in the new budget that comes to the harvest, and then it is important to look at the need that is out there. But most importantly, as I said, the municipalities recognise the need that is there. And it's taken some time from a municipality to apply for grants, to build – whether it's new places, more and better places, investments related to rehabilitation, or adjustments to the available places take time. It takes everything from three to five years before that place is ready to move in. That's what's demanding, and in the evening post today we saw statistics that show that after this government joined, the arrows go up – even if we wanted it to go even faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e684	It opens for follow-up questions - Tuva Moflag.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e689	It is an explicit objective that residents of a nursing home should have exclusive rooms with their own bathroom. It's about dignity the last time in life. The Municipality of Oslo has an offensive commitment to ensure this. Therefore, the City Council does not extend the contract with a nursing home where residents have to use common baths in the hallway. Does the State Council support the community's investment in nursing homes that offer elderly ones with their own bathroom?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e694	The most important thing for us is that each municipality knows its challenge and the places they have. Some municipalities see that their places are out of date and do not meet the needs of the elderly today. Then it is important for us that the flexibility that we give the municipalities to be able to make those choices must be there. But it is also possible to show discretion and take older people's need for security and dignity seriously. You might say, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e700	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e705	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. As I mentioned in a previous follow-up question, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was on a committee mission in inner Troms last week. That's where I got it. information about why the Army is totally dependent on having a dedicated helicopter to function. Expressions such as the Helid of the Army were used as a decisive resource, a force multiplier that cannot be avoided. And there are some important reasons for that. One needs, among others setting up sensors to find out where the enemy is. One needs to transport strengths to disable enemies'sensors. One needs MEDAC, i.e. medical evacuation, which maintains motivation, moral and will to fight. One needs supplies to the front line, it's for ammunition, it's for food, etc. It's for border forces and helicopters to move, especially ours and fall, when you can't use either snowmobiles or quadruples or what else you have to use when there's either snow or fog. The competence must also be secured in the north, because we have the US Marines, who are in Norway to train. They shall also be trained to fly in this climate and in this topography. We know that the NH90 is no alternative, as some claim during the management of the land authority proposition. If the Army were to use it, it would also, according to information we got, five times the cost per flight hour. It was a collective mischief for the Army when the revised national budget was presented last week. One of the reasons is that the need for helicopter support for the Army is not taken seriously by the Minister of Defense. We know one needs it. The question is: does the Minister of Defense think that it is defensive that Norway, a country with our distances, should cut helicopters to the Norwegian army, while other countries view the helicopter as a completely necessary resource in their defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e716	The long-term plan and the land-use proposition are based on the priorities of the professional military, from the head of defence. The Defence Manager is the contact point of the Ministry in relation to those priorities. It is fully possible to travel around and find someone who would have prioritised differently. This boss has been in the Chief of Defense's leadership. They've raised some priorities that make helicopters for the Army come down a bit on the list. Surveillance aircraft are given higher priority, the Marine is given higher priority, submarines are given higher priority. The ability of the Army to move and repair the equipment of the Army is a higher priority. We are now building the ground wall, and then we are building new capacities gradually. Artillery is a prior priority for the Army, The wholeness of the Norwegian defence force is, therefore, the head of defence who has provided it with the help of his leadership. We have followed those priorities to a great extent. If you travel to Bergen, someone is probably dissatisfied that we just order four submarines, no more. There you might find someone who thinks that the Norwegian defence stands and falls on exactly that. When you travel to the army commander, the commander said to me: I have been delivered my settings. I have had my settings delivered, and I agree with the defence manager's priorities. I stand behind the handovers that have been delivered from the head of defense to the department. If, as the commander of the army, I could have been given a different priority with the whole pot, I would have given a different priority, but building defence in Norway is about interaction between army, sea and marine. That's what's been delivered in the big deal. These are our priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e727	We got a statement here about what the head of defense is saying. I didn't ask for it. I asked if the Secretary of Defense is satisfied that a down-prioritized helicopter to the Army. I'm going to follow up with a specific question: one of the most important tasks of the Army's helicopter is medical evacuation, i.e. MEDEVAK. To work out whether there is a war or a crisis situation, a training course is needed – quantity training. One doesn't have to travel to Setermoen or Bardufoss or other places to get to know it. It should actually also know when sitting in an office in the government quarter of Oslo. In fact, those who are going to war together must know each other. They need to know how to train. And they have to train in the same way as other NATO countries if they're going to be involved in international operations. It's for the life and health of our solar data. It is incomprehensible that the government does not take responsibility and spend money on something that is so important. And what signal does it send to the solar data? How does the Council of State think that removing the helicopter and thereby showing that the government is depriving life and health of the solar data will affect their fighting morals, the will to stand in war?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e736	If I was unclear in my previous answer, of course, I am behind the priorities of the documents we deliver to Stortinget. When we move the capacity down and practice with the special forces, we do it because it's a very complicated operation. What you practice there with the special forces in the case of flight can be transferred directly to the needs of the Army. The helicopters, with the crews, can go straight in and do Army duties with what they've been trained on – MEDACT, deploy spears, deploy supplies. Then we have said that a good part of the capacity of the Army's helicopters can be done with civil capabilities in peacetime. And we're going to have to find a solution for that. It's not like there's any soldiers in the Army up there and they're worried that the helicopter pilots can't make a MEET. No, they're getting more competent at what they're going to do, with the solution we've chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e745	Then we've come to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e750	I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister of Finance questions about some of the issues that we have seen revised. The revised report describes the economic situation of the country, and one of the areas of high attention in the document is productivity development. There is a description that productivity has taken on board, about conditions in countries around us and what the government has done to increase productivity. Increased productivity is described as making better use of scarce resources, and that the benefits from more efficient forms of production and organisation are initially partly due to lower prices, partial workers and owners of capital through higher wages and increased return on capital. But what's not in the revised national budget is how the distribution of this is, and how there have been changes in the distribution that have occurred in how you take out productivity gains. So I have two concrete questions to the Council of State: how have the distributions of the gains on increased productivity been through the time of government councils? And have the differences between people become smaller or larger through her time as the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e755	I guess I see that these are two different questions. First, to the question of inequality: there is a broad consensus in the Storting, that we should maintain the small inequality that we all have in Norway compared to very many other countries. The reason why we're able to do that is because we have tax-funded welfare schemes that are widely agreed on, and that we have a quite efficient driven economy, and I think that's an intention we're going to continue to pursue. Then there was the second question of productivity development. We have had falling productivity growth over many years, both under this government and under the previous government. The joy now is that we see that it's about to turn around. The numbers are getting better. We're going to enjoy that. But we have, among other things, referred to the productivity effects of the red tape and efficiency reform, which I was asked about a little earlier by the representative Kaski in this Questionnaire. It is clear that there are gains that we have made to strengthen both welfare schemes and other areas of activity above the budget, and I believe that it has benefited all citizens in this country by continuing to safeguard welfare systems, by finding room to keep tax and tax pressures at the lowest possible level, by strengthening investment in transport, by providing an offensive long-term defence plan, by strengthening the hospital economy, and by putting into a good community economy, which can provide us with better elderly care in the future. So the sum is that when we spend taxpayers' money more wisely, extract productivity gains and efficiency gains, we release resources that we can use to secure well-being. We're going to enjoy that. The question of the distribution I almost have to get back to the representative Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e762	I note that the Council of State will neither respond to the increase or decrease in disparities in her time, nor to how productivity growth has been divided between capital and work. I expect that the Council of State can come back to that. But I also hear the Council of State reply that it is important for her to use taxpayers' money wisely, and then I have another concrete question related to the revised national budget. The revised national budget proposes the use of 20 million. to make changes to the Tax Directorate's IT systems in order to keep the four largest municipalities in their municipality number. Is there a reasonable way to spend taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e769	First, to the claim that I will not answer. I tried to give quite adequate answers to both of the questions raised by the representative, both in terms of productivity and in terms of inequality, and we should be glad that the inequality in Norway is small and that we have good welfare arrangements to ensure it. But the most important thing we do to keep the inequality at the lowest possible level is to make it easier for people to get into work. Therefore, it has been important that we have managed to reverse the negative consequences of the oil price drop in 2014. Even more important is the efforts of the government in the future to reform inclusion, where we have more people on the outside of the labour market into the labour market. I hope that the Workers' Party will support action in this area, because it will help to secure well-being, and it will help to reduce differences. Then it is true that in the revised budget we have given additional appropriations to the tax rate. I think that has been absolutely necessary. They are biased in ICT development, and the alternative is that this money will have to be collected by itself, and thus it will go from operating.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e776	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e790	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e795	The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative of Mr Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs who is directing him. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e803	‘A number of urgent measures have been put in place to address the ongoing crisis in the air ambulance service, including an additional aeroplane picked up from the company Babcock. Can I ask for an overview of all the urgent measures put in place and what are the amounts of each of these measures so far?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e810	A number of urgent measures have been put in place to address the ongoing challenges of reduced preparedness in the air ambulance service, with a view to minimising the impact on patients. It is absolutely necessary to ensure medical preparedness throughout the country, but especially in North Norway. I have had a close dialogue on the emergency situation with Health North and through it also with the Air ambulance service. I have asked Health Nord to present a plan for how they will discharge their responsibilities in the future. The plan must necessarily be further developed and updated as the situation develops, not least in the event of changes in the capacity of Air Transport AS to provide services. The Ministry of Health and Welfare, through the Directorate of Health, has requested the defence. After that, the defense has deployed two manned helicopters in Finnmark. In addition, a supplementary aeroplane has been launched to remedy the situation. I have asked the Air Ambulance Service and Health Nord to explain the costs of the emergency measures that have been taken so far. The air ambulance service has reported the following measures and costs to them: it has contracted a Beech 250 ambulance aircraft from Sweden. The plane is on standby from Monday to Friday in Tromsø. The price will vary slightly, depending on the use, but is in the order of 600 000 kroner per week. It's been agreed to lease in May, i.e. for four weeks, for a total cost of 2.4 million. kr. There is also contracted assistance from Hospital Purchases HF, this at a cost of NOK 250000. There is also a purchase of legal competence for NOK 250000. Air ambulance services have the possibility to rent another aircraft, a jet plane from Sweden. This is then paid per hour, and the cost will then depend on the use. The price is NOK 31 000 per hour. Other planning measures are currently not cost-effective. Health Nord has implemented several remedies. They have stated the following costs relating to these: rent of two helicopters from the Defence Agency for between 350000 and 500000 kroner per week per helicopter. Four weeks have been agreed on, which means a cost of up to 4 million. kr. More ground-based measures have also been put in place to strengthen preparedness. There has been an upsizing of regional AMK at the University Hospital in North Norway at a cost of approx. 70,000 kroner per week. Additional preparedness for orthopaedic services has been established in Lofoten and the West Sea at a cost of approx. 150,000 kroner per week. The Finnish Hospital has had a reinforcement of the car ambulance service on single guards. The estimated cost is NOK 30 000–50000. In addition to this, of course, self-employed administrative staff, both in the Air ambulance service and in the Health North, have had increased preparedness during the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e827	Thanks for the answer. Yesterday, Today’s Business reported that health peaks chose the worst preparedness for the air ambulance despite tightening requirements, and that Babcock will use fewer pilots and bets to buy the pilots off vacation if it’s blinking. They offered 15 fewer pilots and one less aircraft than the competitor Air Transport and won. The tender documents show that Babcock relies extensively on purchasing free flights from holidays and holidays, which is a voluntary scheme. This means that the preparedness that determines people's safety for life and health is based on pilots selling their leisure time – which we saw going, with Norwegian last summer. What many are asking about, and I hope we can get an answer, is how extensive holiday purchase Babcock informed about in the tendering round. They themselves will not respond to this, but they have referred to the authorities when the media have wanted to respond to this which is absolutely crucial for the future preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e840	The HF Air ambulance service will, of course, respond to the claims made in today’s business yesterday. What is also important is that the overall preparedness of the new tender is higher than in the current situation. Of course, Babcock has undertaken to deliver it. This will be answered by the HF Air ambulance Service, and there will be a separate consultation in the Health and Care Committee tomorrow, where this issue will probably come up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e845	There was probably no answer to a very crucial question, but I noticed that both the Minister and others have stressed the need to strengthen preparedness with the new bidding round. Nevertheless, the demand for increased preparedness, as I understand it, is weighted by 7.5 pst. importance of the eight quality requirements. Quality counts 60 pst. and price 40 pst. So the emergency requirement only counts 4 pst. in the overall evaluation of the tenders. I would like to ask the Minister if these calculations lead to correctness – that the emergency response requirement is weighted by 7.5 pst. importance of the eight quality requirements, and that in sum they only count 4 pst. in the overall evaluation – which can explain that Babcock, which is thus based on its offer of free time for pilots, a voluntary scheme that can weaken the entire standby, has just won through this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e854	Now I think the representative is about to figure out a little bit. The point of departure for this tender is the higher the level of preparedness. This means that there are many of the quality requirements to be met by companies that are an absolute standard that has been introduced. It simply means that preparedness is better with the new agreement than it is in today's situation, and it is of course the companies that are responsible for delivering it, as it is today. That's what's real, as a consequence of this. This is a development we have also seen in previous tenders – improved quality not only in general, but also, and not least, in equipment, as we are now looking at the new helicopters that are phased into the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e864	‘The Association of Machine Entrepreneurs has made us aware of the challenges of tipping the a-krim centres with concerns messages. The aim of the centres must be to strengthen cooperation between the labour market and the social dumping and the crime of working life. Why has the government not given priority to making it easy for the public to tip off the a-crime centres on unprofessionalism, social dumping and crime at work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e871	The government has established seven centres as an important part of the work against labour crime. These are not separate legal or organisational entities. The budgets emphasise that even though they cooperate closely, the four different authorities that manage each of their legislation are. Public tips are important for the floors, and they are also widely used. Annually receive e.g. Labour Inspectorate over 7 000 tips. In addition, there are some tips on direct enquiries to the a-krim centres by phone and e-mail. This varies slightly between the a-krim centers. However, the floors strive to get the tips through the established tips. The agencies concerned have a long tradition of receiving tips, and well-developed systems to treat them in a good way. Since there are self-employed establishments working together, it is also desirable that the person reporting a case should know if he or she is advising the Labour Inspectorate, the Tax Administration or any other public authority. By providing tips to each department, it will be better to assess the case and how the best follow-up can be. It may be followed up in cooperation between several agencies, or it may be followed up by other actions in each department. This approach also contributes to targeting the efforts of the work-life-reduction centres. In general, the authorities have the impression that the public does not see it as difficult to report on issues related to possible criminality at work. The tax base also looks at measures to make it easier for business and the population to report tips to the agency. I would also like to mention that an important part of the unitary cooperation against labour crime is dialogue and cooperation with the social partners. Also through such contact surfaces, the floors get some tips. At all work crunch centres, there is a coordinator who has been given responsibility to be the contact person for enquiries from, among others. the parties. Another important channel for tips on illegalities is the service centres for foreign workers, the so-called SUA offices. Meetings with users of service centres provide important information about potential unprofessional enterprises and employers who break the law. Cross-border cooperation on service centres is therefore an important source of tips for cross-border a-crime cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e886	Now no one has come up with a message of concern, it's the Association of Machine contractors. We have to assume that they have the resources to explore the system. When they feel like a big actor that it's swirly and difficult, you can only assume what it feels like for smaller players and for individuals who want to tip. I tried just before the quiz to search Google for ‘a-krimsenter, Oslo, tips’. Then there were ten tips on experiences in Oslo from Visit Oslo. It could have been nice in itself, but that might not have been what you were looking for. I hear what the Council of State says, and it's mostly just about pointing to what the agencies themselves can and should do. I believe that the a-krim centres should be the channel for reporting on and handling tips on work-life crime, it must be easy to provide tips. Will the State Council take further initiatives to ensure easy access to tips for the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e895	I agree that this is a big and serious union, but what the department itself says is that they don't feel that it's a challenge. They have also not received any feedback, as far as I know. I also sat and Googled a little after the tip of the different floors. It is true that there are not so many hits at a-krim centres, but it is quite possible to call and send an e-mail there. It is also, as I mentioned in my main response, a permanent coordinator who is responsible for the social partners and to handle enquiries from them. Here this is connected naturally enough an actor who would fall under the responsibility of that coordinator. All the agencies have good arrangements for submitting tips via websites, e-mails and telephones. As the agencies themselves say, the a-krim centres are a cooperative arena for the floors, but it's not going to replace the floors. The floors are also concerned with getting the notifications and tips as far as possible into the line of the department to handle the various tips.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e902	For me it is not good enough that the floors themselves do not feel that there is any problem with tipping. This is about the audience’s ability to tip, e.g. The Association of Machine Workers, which wants to be involved in and contribute to the fight against crime at work, must be as simple as possible to get alerted and to find out in the system. That is why the Labour Party has made a number of proposals, which were recently voted down by the majority on the Grand Duchy, with the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. This would have meant that the whole country was covered by a-crime centres, that the a-crime centres had increased resources and improved instruments. There must also be work in front of the audience. In the 2018 budget, the government did not come up with any new measures against labour-related crime. In the recent revision, no new measures were introduced. On the contrary, they dropped the Safety Register and the Handicraft Portal. Does this mean that the government does not give priority to work on the crime of working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e909	As I mentioned in my first answer, the Labour Inspectorate has only received 7 000 tips from the audience, so it is widely tipped by phone and e-mail, and probably also via regular mail and web pages – and that is the way it should be. It is also possible to tip through the a-krim centres – of course. But it's also important that the department that's going to handle the tips get the tips in. The government has the fight against the crime of working life as one of its most important areas. We have shown that by establishing the seven centres that we are talking about here, and we have invested significantly in financial resources for supervision. We have made considerable efforts to improve information sharing, and there is now a great deal of work to be done in several departments to improve information sharing opportunities. We have also strengthened the criminal framework for those who commit this type of crime, and we have now taken a major and important initiative towards the European Union to combat crime internationally, because we must do that if we are to be able to solve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e925	This question has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for it. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e933	‘The government sent in the autumn to hear a proposal that water management plans should no longer be adopted in accordance with the planning and building laws, and that the tasks will be moved from the counties to the counties. Will the government make any changes to the water regulations and subsequent changes to the laws before the Storting, and will the government await decisions on the matter, so that it can be seen in conjunction with the regional reform?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e940	Proposals for changes to the Nature Diversity Act will normally be promoted as a proposition for the Storting. I aim to promote this in the near future. The proposed amendment to the Nature Diversity Act will provide a new basis for the implementation of the Water Directive, so that the water regulation can also be provided under the Nature Diversity Act. The water legislation was laid down before the adoption of the Nature Diversity Act in 2009 and it is now desirable to have this law as the legal basis for the broad cross-sectoral work on water management. Amendments to other laws are not proposed. The proposed change in the Nature Diversity Act does not prejudge the possible changes in the organisation of water management work under the Water Regulation. The regulatory changes to be made must be carefully assessed in the light of the consultation proposal and the opinions received. It is the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy that are empowered to adopt amendments to the water legislation § 33. No decision has yet been taken on regulatory changes or changes in the organisation of work, but we aim for such clarification before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e947	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I hear that he says that the changes in the laws of nature will be made to the Storting soon. You have to do that, all the time these are regulations that lead to what is in the laws of nature. I want to ask a follow-up question: what happens if the Storting does not agree with the changes in the laws of nature, and rather wants to see this as a whole, all the time the Storting has ambitions for more tasks to be done at the regional, elected level?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e954	As I said in my answer, the law of natural diversity was not part of the law when the water regulation came, and I think it is natural that it is also being put in as a basis of law, and that it is right to do so. The proposal of the expert group on regional reform has been being consulted, and in relation to the assessment we are about to make, we will clearly also look at the hearing opinions, just as the hearing opinions related to this proposal are also something that is being considered. However, there is a need for clarification, also because prior to the summer the government's hearings stated that the changes would take effect on 1 July and that there is a need for clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e959	I thank you again for your answer. Again, I would like to remind the Council of State that the Storting and the Government share the ambition that more tasks should be done at the regional, elected level, and that one here also has an ambition to give one the most possible overall assessment of tasks, because this is about filling a regional reform with content. I have noticed that in the revised state budget, under item 22 State environmental measures, it is proposed to move on a 4 million promise. kr against a corresponding reduction in heading 70. The proposal comes as a result of a need for increased efforts by the State to provide a good basis for the next water management plans. In the hearings, all the county councils have said that they would rather have this as part of a larger task management, and they really want to go against them. Several statesmen have done the same. I would like to end by asking whether this is an expression of the government's ambitions in the field of moving more tasks to the regional populous nine?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e968	I have no other answer to that than that no decision has yet been made. We have received the hearing opinions. I believe it is right – I also bring a case to Stortinget about this – to provide a basis in the Nature Diversity Act. I mean, it's natural. Other changes have not been decided upon.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e976	‘The police shall transfer the former bilgeman and employee at the Leka Länsmannskontort to Kolvereid in Nærøy for nearly $1 million. The staff member's office of resignation still has to be paid for, and both employees are to retire in two years' time. It seems strange and not flexible by the state and the police as employers. Does the Council of State consider this to be a reasonable use of the police and community funds, or does the Council of State consider that the police should make a change to the decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e983	A deadline has been set for 1 June 2018 for police districts and police officers to implement the new service structure. There's this police chief in Trøndelag police district now following up. I am concerned that the police reach the targets and demands decided by the Stortinget, the Government and the Ministry of Justice. It is and must be up to the police and the chief of police to decide for themselves the resource effort, the allocation of resources and the actions and activities most appropriate to meet the stated objectives and requirements. I must stress how important it is that the police chief be given room for action to use his resources in such a way as to provide good and effective police services for the entire police district, of course within the framework conditions given to them. Behind the decision to shut down the Leka Länsmannskontoret was a thorough process by the police district, the Police Directorate and the Ministry of Justice. The establishment of major geographical holdings facilitates better and more equal police services, irrespective of their place of residence, including: because operational crews can be used flexibly where necessary at all times. I share the Commissioner’s assessment – that this could help the municipality get a better service offer today. This also means that, overall, Leka should be able to get a better service offer. There will always be the cost of the closure of service locations. The process therefore focuses on treating police officers equally with regard to the closure of offices, attempts at remedies and the use of instruments in the conversion agreement concluded. I'm assuming that this has also happened to the employee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e994	This was a typical bureaucracy response. I think this is where you have to listen to the employees that it is actually about. One thing is to give the police officers room for action to implement the structural changes that are now taking place. It is a difficult transition that is taking place, and it is causing considerable concern. Another thing is the human perspective on this, because it's about two people in the police who are going to do exactly the same work as today. Lensman's office at Leka still has to be paid for. The two will retire in two years and are now forced to commute to carry out the same job as they could have done well from the office at Leka. For me, it's a terrible employer policy, and I hope it's not an expression that the Council of State believes that the way to deal with people is the wise way to proceed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1001	From the Ministry of Justice's point of view, there are some general principles on which it is based. It is primarily a qualitative measure of the police service we want, and the collective objective is given to the police officers. Then there are the resources, which are considerably strengthened under this government, but which we at the same time say is up to the police officers to try to dispose of as best they can. Then there is an employer policy, where it is about trying to treat equal cases as much as possible. I must also be allowed to add that in the police case there are 17 000 employees, of whom more than 10 000 are police, and it is going to be a strange situation if the Stortinge will discuss individual positions in a conversion process with over 17 000 employees. I continue to assume that the Chief of Police is doing what is right to achieve the qualitative objectives of the budgets that have been allocated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1008	I can't help but record that the state council is pushing the police chief in front of me and has no point of view whatsoever about how the state and the police are going to pursue their employer policy. I think that's depressing, but we just get to register it. So the Council of State says that he is concerned that police officers should be given room for action to implement the changes that are now underway. According to Menon Economics’ business analysis of the police and officers’ seat in 2017, the administrative budget space of the districts was reduced by 426 million. kr for the period 2013-2016, i.e. during the current government, adjusted for wage and price increases, designation and staff increases imposed. So you're going to have to spend more than 1 million. the transfer of two staff who will retire in two years' time and who will carry out the exact same tasks and will continue to be paid for by the Länsmannskontoret at Leka. Is that the way the government thinks it's right to use the resources of society and the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1015	On the basis of what is happening, the instruments contained in the conversion agreement that have been concluded are the contract governing the employment relationship. Then I must again stress that with 17 000 police employees there will be a somewhat strange debate to decide on each case to be considered. With regard to the police's action room, I noticed that the representative Grande was talking about an action room, but took away the increased number of posts. The increase in the number of posts is an increase in the scope of action. Having more policemen — as it has become under this government — is giving police and police officers more room for action. It's strengthening the range of police services in the districts as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1027	‘Inner Eastfold Police Station is a police station for six municipalities and close to 47 500 inhabitants. Recently, we have received messages from residents in the former Follo police district that do not reach the police on the phone. In the Smålen Newspaper on May 8, 2018, we were once again able to read about a resident who had to make a return trip when he was going to deliver a report in the police office. Does the Council of State think this is good enough, and does the police station have sufficient dimension for the area it is to serve?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1034	Ensuring the security and security of the population is the highest priority we have set for the Norwegian police. One important prerequisite for this is that police services should be accessible to the population and provide good service. It is and must be up to the police and the chief of police to decide for themselves the resource effort, the allocation of resources and the actions and activities most appropriate to meet the stated objectives and requirements. I have to stress how important it is that the police chief be given room for action to use his resources in such a way that it provides good and effective police services for the entire police district. The Ministry directs the Directorate of Police by setting targets and making demands at the overall level. For example, response time, travel time for services and emergency response time 112 are required. Then the police chief in each police district has the responsibility to dispose of resources efficiently and as necessary, to achieve the social impact we want. The new East Police District Operation Centre was launched on 7 March this year. In other words, it's still in the start-up phase. East police districts have acknowledged that there is sometimes too long waiting time at the central table, and have put in place measures to improve the availability of the hotline 02800 in terms of manning, training and technical solutions. I assume that the Chief of Police will take the necessary steps to ensure the safety and security of the population. It was with a broad majority that the Stortinget concluded on the near-police reform, including the strengthening of the operational centres. I believe that it is now important that we show confidence in those who feel where the shoe prints the most – that they have the ability to implement the measures in practice. The Government and the Storting should focus on making good assumptions in order to solve the task. That is why the government has implemented a historic promise for the Norwegian police in the field of personnel. In eastern police districts, police coverage per 1 000 inhabitants has increased from 1.43 in December 2013 to 1.58 in December 2017. I expect measures to be put in place and planned by the East Police District to improve the situation so that the citizens of the East are as accessible as possible to the police. The operating centre is new, the reform work is demanding, and we have to exercise some patience before we can seriously start reaping the benefits of the changes we have started.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1045	I don't know if the government council knows the history of the Inner Eastfold Police Station, but it's the result of a voluntary merger of the original five county councillors in cooperation with the municipalities. One of the intentions was to avoid having small cannon offices with four-five officers and risk having offices that had to be closed when one had to give priority to other tasks. So now you have a new police station. In addition, the municipality of Marker is added – six municipalities and 50,000 inhabitants are to be served. It should be robust enough to keep open during the opening hours, so that the residents can deliver reviews and have other types of assignments done. Does the Council of State think that there is a good enough offer for the citizens when you do not experience being able to meet unannounced at the police station and get a report?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1054	The police district is still in a transition phase. These are important demands we make. The demands we make to the police district so far, at the overall level, we feel that the police district is delivering. Only to mention it: in the emergency number 112, the calls are answered within the time limits. So it's said that there's still a bit left to get a service level beyond what is dealing with acute cases. It also informs the police district that they are working with. It is important to remember that in this district it is still in a transition phase. Of course, we're going to evaluate it when it comes to the problem, but I think it's important to give them the freedom of action to carry out that transformation and achieve the goals that Biggett has, after all, been doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1061	We have been through this transition in Inner Eastfold for a long time. What we have experienced is a breach of the premise that was imposed: that one should have a robust, strong police station in Ashim, which was common to the five – now six – municipalities. Now we've seen that you've moved services, you've moved people from Ashim to Ski, you've moved the opportunity to get a passport from Ashim to Ski, and now we see that you might also have to order an hour to get a regular review. Does the Council of State consider this to be appropriate, and does he believe that this is part of building up under the confidence of the citizens in the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1068	The police have more than 17 000 employees and more than 10 000 police trained people. Controlling these resources to achieve the qualitative objectives, which means making the crime scene the most accurate possible, must be done by the police chief. I don't think it can be that no matter where the crime challenge is greatest, the police should be organised as it was yesterday, no matter what geographical areas get the greatest effect of the police effort, we have to be organized as we were yesterday. The important thing is that those who know where the shoe is pressing, those who are in the field, that is. The chief of police — responsible for the operational teams — can use the resources to deliver police force to meet the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1078	‘The size is set out in Decision No. 581 of 5 April 2018 adopted the inclusion of Osterøy at Bergen incarceration in the current KVU for the West Criminal Office region. The revised national budget shows that the government will not comply with the Storting’s will, but will go in to reduce prison operations from June 2019. Is this a mistake, or what has changed since April that can explain that the government is acting in violation of the majority?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1085	Bergen Incarceration, Osterøy Department is owned by a foundation. The foundation has terminated the current rental contract and issued a deadline in 2017 for feedback about the country's wish to purchase the property. The current rental contract expires in mid-2019, while the concept selection inquiry for the West is expected to be completed and quality assured only by the end of 2019. The continuation of operations after the end of the contract requires that the country buys the property and has significant investments in the necessary upgrading of the building stock. At the same time, the forecasts from the Directorate of Criminal Welfare suggest that the need for prison sites can be met in the future without the Osterøy sites. As also shown in the information provided in Prop. 85 S, it will mean large investment by the state, while the assumed need for lower-security prisons is well met from now on. There are significant maintenance needs related to the property. Further prison operations in Osterøy will require significant investments in upgrading and maintenance. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare has, on an uncertain basis, said that the rent can be in the order of 10 million. kr per year if the property is acquired by State-owned buildings. There will be a significant increase compared to today's rent of NOK 730,000 per year. Based on the forecast that we will have overcapacity in locations at a lower level of safety, the maintenance needs of Osterøy and the fact that the current lease expires in mid-2019, the prison should be closed even if the concept selection investigation for the West has not been completed. The continuation of Osterøy until the Western draft selection investigation is completed will result in the liquidation of other prison sites, or the reduction of the content of the settlement within the unchanged budgetary framework. It could also have consequences for the security of criminal justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1092	The parliamentarian here is that the government has no plurality. A majority decided a month ago that the question of Ulvsnessey should be included in the impact assessment for the West Criminal Office. The government, which has a minority, has failed to comply with it. The argument that the Council of State comes up with is to go into the facts of the matter, but our point is that we should take that discussion into account when we get the consequence. It's not that a postponement of the consequence will lead to the purchase of the island. I'm here with a briefing from a meeting between the criminal services and the foundation, where the foundation says they're ready to enter into a new discussion about a lease agreement of six months or one year. Why has the Council of State not considered this? Why doesn't he go after the big numbers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1099	First of all, Parliamentary. It is the case that Stortinget takes a decision on a request. Of course, those request decisions aim at the Ministry of Justice to look at and follow up, but if we see that the request decision does not follow up, it is our duty to come back to Stortinget with a new decision, and that is what we are doing. It's completely in line with custom and practice. We invite Stortinget to take a decision on the revised national budget. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare has to deal with the demands made in its time. I think it's difficult to discuss this issue without going into reality, because the important question here is: What prison places does the representative want to be placed instead of keeping Osterøy? Or what crews and security measures does the representative want to remove if we are to keep Osterøy? That's the challenges we're facing. Such assessments are natural to include in the budget, and we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1106	To the question of what prison places I want to maintain: this is not a question put by the Council of State, but there has suddenly been a problem because a lease has been cancelled. This is completely unimaginable. I would like to mention again that once you have received a majority decision, it would have been natural for a council to try to engage in dialogue with the directorate and the foundation to expand the lease until the settlement has come, as Stortinget has said. When the Council of State says that the decision to increase is not feasible, I don't think it's true. The sensible thing, and the real thing, would be to extend the lease, as the foundation says they're ready to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1111	As I said in my initial answer, taking over the plant will entail considerable costs. That money has to be taken from somewhere. Either you have to take it in a budget debate, where you say where the money is to be taken from, or you simply have to take that money from other prisons. Then you have to put prisons down. I think that's a point for big business representatives in general to think about when you have good wishes about what to maintain. The background for this is, of course, a very positive message, namely that the country no longer has prison cows. When this government took over, there were considerable prison cows – several thousand standing in line. Those queues have been terminated. So building down some of the prison capacity is an expression that we have a policy that has achieved the other objectives of criminal justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1121	‘In a strong article in iTromsø, commentator Egon Holstad describes what happened when the scarred “Kristine” went down, where the man on board was found only a year later. From the time of the accident and until the cancellation, there has been a major failure of the Main Rescue Centre, the Harvari Commission and the police, who have refused to raise the shock on the grounds that the deceased ‘was not in active fishing’. "Why wasn't anyone helping Dad?" asked the daughter. How will the Council of State ensure that the corresponding never happens again?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1128	On 18 July 2016, the main rescue centre in North Norway received at 10 a.m. 03.10. Insert signals from an emergency locator transmitter on board a boat. They immediately launched a comprehensive rescue operation. The boat was found at 21 meters deep a little over an hour later. Search was made with underwater cameras and divers, without any persons being found in or around the boat. In parallel, coastal searches, including on land, were initiated in houses and cabins, with crews from among others. Red Cross and Norwegian National Aid. The family was early notified. The rescue operation ended at 0 p.m. 6:00 a.m. the same day. In other words, all available resources were used, and the boat was found relatively quickly. Unfortunately, the victim was not found at this stage of the action. After completion of rescue operation, i.e. when the operation was over in a phase of search after the suspected death, Trom’s police district carried out a series of searches for the injured person. Here the boat, aircraft, helicopter and divers from both the fire department and the volunteer diving club were used, without any results. The relatives were kept constantly informed about the situation. Trom's police district closed its search for the suspected death on 9 August 2016. With regard to the criticism that has come against the State Disaster Commission for Transport regarding cancellation, it is difficult for me to comment on it. The Commission is an independent management body which sortes administratively under the Ministry of Transport. In the case of marine casualties, they are professionally bound by the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. The Ministry does not have any authority to instruct the Commission to investigate ship accidents. The Commission itself determines the scope of the investigation and the manner in which it is to be carried out, and its decision cannot be appealed against. I fully understand the relatives, who have lived for over a year in the uncertainty of what has happened to their loved ones. It is also easy to agree in retrospect that the jack should have been lifted earlier, especially in the light of the fact that the victim was found at the same time as the boat. Why he wasn't found, it's hard for me to think anything about. As I said, it was searched with both underwater cameras and divers during the rescue operation, and later in the search for the suspected death. No search and rescue is the same, and there's always something to learn from such events. Unfortunately, there is no guarantee of success within such a demanding area as rescue services, but the experience of this and other events we take with us in the future, so that we evolve to become ever better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1143	There was a very cool response from the Council of State in a matter that has been very uncertain about in particular North Troms, where this accident happened. When the emergency beacon signal was picked up by the main rescue center, it was soon discovered that the boat was located at 21 metres at Maurneset. A choice was then not to lift the boat to see if the deceased were there. What is the reason why the coastal police do not have the resources to investigate this type of event, to raise it, and that it takes as long as this has done? I would like to add that what happened at the end was that Finnsnes Divk and Construction Service lifted the boat on their own initiative, and there was one that died. It must be obvious to everyone that something wrong has happened here. Why does the police along the coast not have resources to move out and investigate this type of event?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1148	I think it's important to see the order in a rescue operation and the different responsibilities that are here. It's the rescue service that organizes the rescue. After a completed rescue operation, i.e. when the action is over, we are in a phase of search for the presumed deceased. It executed Trom's police district as they were supposed to. Here, boats, airplanes, helicopters, fire brigade divers and volunteer diving club were used, which gave no results. So it wasn't the resources it was on, but unfortunately you didn't get results at the time. When we move on to transport and uplifting, we are moving to an area that does not belong to the rescue department or the police district, but is about the Harvari Commission. The Disaster Commission is an independent body that should not be able to be instructed politically, precisely because they should be independent, and it is difficult for me to explain how development was, but I also think it took too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1155	One thing is the constitutional responsibilities of the Council of State, but the Council of State is responsible for the full preparedness and coordination of it. The work of the Disaster Commission is to come back and see what has happened here, and what can you do to improve your safety? So it is clear that very much of the conclusions and work that the Commission is making is always relevant to the Minister of Justice and Defence. On the home page of the Disaster Commission, it also says quite explicitly: «The Act requires the Commission to investigate all maritime accidents involving Norwegian passenger ships and maritime accidents involving other Norwegian ships, including fishing vessels, where crew, master or any other person accompanying the ship has or is presumed to have died.» It's black in white. So here a private company has taken that responsibility. Here is an accident in which errors have occurred in several steps, where one could not raise the ship where it is revealed that the deceased has been. What can the Minister of Emergency do to strengthen this part of the preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1167	Let me first say that I fully understand the relatives, who have lived for over a year in uncertainty about what happened. It's very easy to understand. It is also easy to agree in retrospect that the scar should have been lifted earlier, especially in the light of the fact that the victim was found so close to the site of the accident. Then it is that rescue operations are difficult and demanding. It's not always that you succeed as well as you should. It is difficult to say why the extensive searches, the extensive surveys, and the extensive resources that were set in motion did not produce results. Of course, it's unfortunate that you didn't succeed right away, and it's hard for me to say what happened, but part of the learning is that you're always looking at operations, looking at whether you can do something better, so you can develop the ministry to get better the next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1174	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-23.ana.ud447e1188	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Ask for some word before the meeting are being - The meeting's been cancelled.
