ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e26	The representative Petter Eide, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Socialist Left Group on sick leave for the representative of Mona Fagerås from 14 November until further notice from the Central Party Group on the Permit of the Representative for the Liv Signe Navarsete from 15 November to 20 November to take part in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly's autumn session in Halifax, Canada. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Nordic region: Marius Meisfjord J øsevold For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Steinar Ness
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e69	Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold is present and will take the seat. The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e76	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Pollestad, Heidi Greni, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Nils T. Bjørke and myself, I would like to make a proposal to extend the local radio concessions on the FM network.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e81	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e97	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and the Councils of State Åse Michaelsen and Iselin Nybø will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e106	My question goes to the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health. The Elder Minister is concerned about healthy and good food for older people and will issue a grant scheme for the kitchen in a nursing home. But the Minister of Public Health, who is the same person, is not as concerned about healthy and good food for children and young people in school. Making sure that children eat healthy food during school days is one of the most effective things we can do for Norwegian public health. We know that if healthy goods are established early in life, there is a greater chance that they will continue to live on, and we also know that there are kids who come from home with little time and bad advice, who don't get food packages from home. Research in the school food system shows that it is precisely these kids who benefit from having a single school meal during everyday school life. The government continues to be concerned about child poverty and concerns about increasing differences. Why not start schooling for Norwegian kids, as many of our neighbouring countries do, when we know that it is so effective to balance social differences, and not least for the health of the individual child?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e115	We have already had a project in 24 municipalities where we tested different meals, both lunch and lunch – both hot and cold – and we also have a school fruit scheme, where we have granted over 20 million. kr. I'm looking extra into the challenges of evening out, as the representative also mentions, the social differences. We have a percentage, especially young boys in high school, who don't eat lunch. That's why this is one of the areas that I'm working extra on regarding the new public health message that is coming, which is to be submitted before Easter. We are concerned that children and young people should make healthy choices. That means that we start early to help both kindergartens and schools so that children get to try out fish, coarse cereal and fruit and green. That's why we've come into good cooperation with the business community on precisely these products, also in terms of salt and fat, which we see are important to the right diet for children, so that you don't get this obesity epidemic that we see in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e122	My question was whether the government sees the great advantage of giving all children in Norway the opportunity to have a single school meal. The obvious health gain it will have is very well documented, and it also provides a good opportunity for learning to be saturated in the stomach and have a clear brain. In the care of the elderly, the Progress Party thinks quite the opposite. There you will have state care for the elderly because you do not trust the municipalities. Why, then, will not the State help you to have a single school meal for all children — not just in the municipalities that are already running? There are actually a lot of them. Many municipalities have started because there are so many good arguments for this. For us in the Labour Party, it is important that all children in Norway have access to such a good offer. Why does the Minister for Public Health not agree with that idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e129	As I said to the representative instead, this is exactly what we are now looking at in the context of the public health communication, where we focus on how we are going to reach out. We have statistics from, among others. The college in Bergen, which has looked at the difference between giving a breakfast meal versus giving a lunch. We've been able to look at our neighboring countries, to which it's also referred. Sweden has the lunch as its main meal. Perhaps Norway, as we have seen now, is a little more a food package country, where the breakfast should be made clearer. These are absolute areas that I'm working on, but I think we're going to be a little bit flexible and look at this widely. I also want to have generation meetings in place. Perhaps we can connect these two things and have more resource-intensive older people in school — as part of the generation meeting — in connection with food and lunch. I won't yell too much, but this is an area I'm looking at a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e136	It opens for follow-up questions – first Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e141	It is gratifying to hear that the Minister of Public Health is so positive, but let me remind you that the government she is in, as soon as it entered the government offices, cut into the system of fruits and vegetables. It's nice to refer to the Fiskesprell project, but it's kind of the same thing as giving Blekkulf responsibility for the climate challenges. Here we must take responsibility together. Many schools have already put this in place, for example: Sandesundsvejen school in Sarpsborg. In August, in its report Public Health and Sustainable Social Development, the Health Directorate recommended carrying out research with a single school meal through a lunch offer. Will the Council of State follow up on the Technical Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e148	I look at several professional advice, including: In the Government's action plan on diet, we have mentioned the different products that the representative here addresses – we want to increase this by 20 pst. by 2021. In addition, we have a programme that supports the school owners in the preparation of the national vocational guidelines for food and meal at school, so we do a lot. I'm very open to follow various professional advice, but we have to see them in context. That it's important that children take on food before they start learning, I think we all agree on cross-political issues. But we need to figure out what's the right way to do it, and where the municipalities can actually have a flexibility, because we need to be aware that three out of four colleges already have a canteen offer where different products are sold, and where children and young people are also involved in cooking in the school kitchen and thus learn how to prepare food.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e153	Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e158	The solution is right in front of the Secretary of Public Health's eyes, and it is a pleasure to see that she does not arrest it with both hands. Students who get fruit and green at school eat less candy and sweets. Research in school food shows that there is the greatest change in students who used to be major consumers of shower and snacks. 15 pst. by Norwegian eight-year-olds and 23 pst. 17-year-olds are obese, and the World Health Organisation and Norwegian professional communities have made the fight against obesity their main concern. How, as Minister of Public Health, can one not take as effective a measure as the introduction of a school meal in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e164	As I have said, this is an area I work with. We're going to present a new public health report before Easter next year. It includes not only meals and proper food, which also includes physical activity, which is an important piece we must not forget about the representative here addressing the fat increase we see among children and young people. Once again, I believe in early efforts, to join in building children's knowledge of food, that children are already trying fish packages on the fire – to take it concretely – that they take with them a desire to eat coarse cereal products, fruit, carrots and fish when they get home. We need to see the whole family in this picture – how can we all eat healthier? We should not only focus on a lunch and a bread slice or a bling in the lab, but also look at a whole, look at what's being eaten at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e169	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e174	There are major social health differences in Norway. Differences are increasing, especially among women, and health differences in Norway are greater than in many other European countries. The differences apply to almost all diseases and plagues, and also to treatment, there are social differences in Norway. Social health differences are an expression of a constant lack of justice in a society where equivalency is going to be strong. The major differences in health and living habits that we see are a social problem that can be addressed politically. When the country got its own public health minister, some hopes were given that the government would systematically invest in public health work. But people were disappointed. To date, the Minister of Public Health has had enough to explain what they are against in this field – such as free fruit and vegetables, school meals, one hour of physical activity, etc. My question is: does the government have a goal of reducing social health inequalities, and what time should they present measures to achieve such a goal, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e183	This is one of the areas that is going to be extra priority in the new Public Health Communication. Now we've had five to six recording sessions throughout the country during the spring, summer and autumn, where we've got good insights in different areas – everything from physical activity, proper diet, early effort and how to balance social inequalities in health. So this is an area we're very concerned about. And once again, in line with the representative here mentioned, we view this as a priority area to be able to even it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e188	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e193	It is very strange to hear the Council of State stand and say that this is a priority area, when the government obviously has no plan to do anything about it and the government party Right argues very strongly against a school meal – which Norway stands out by not having. It's an old saying that says, "Without food and drink, the hero doesn't do it." I'm glad the council doesn't slam the door for the proposal, but I hear a lot of talk about seeing it in a whole, and that we're going to investigate more. What politicians can do is one thing. We can't decide what people eat at home, but we can decide that all kids should have a healthy and good meal at school. That's what the Stortinge can decide, and we know it's gonna be better for people. What's the reason why the government doesn't do it, when you say you prioritize it? Because that's just words.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e198	First of all, I react a little to the fact that Andersen says that we have no plan. That's exactly what I'm saying: we have a plan, and we have a good plan. The new public health report is going to take this in. But such decisions should not be made in this house without knowing the consequences and contexts, not only with regard to diet, but also with regard to how we can manage to see this together with physical activity and child growth opportunities – which I know Andersen is very concerned about – that we not only see the child as an individual but see the whole family. We've managed to make a good cooperation, a good deal, with the business community about how they place products at the store, so that when our students are out in high school, they're not going to take that school ball or that energy drink, but rather take that bag of carrots, etc. Here it happens very well. And once again, we have a plan. It is the new public health message that comes before Easter. I'm happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e205	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e210	My question goes to the State Council for Higher Education and Research. The lack of qualified teachers in school is a recurring issue. We have known for a long time that there is a large proportion of employees in teaching positions who lack formal education. We know that there will be a deficit of educated teachers in primary schools in the years to come, and we also know that the government's policy of separation of general teachers, a fourth requirement in mathematics for teacher students and a teacher's norm is going to reinforce one from before the difficult situation. This is precisely why the Centre proposed in our report a comprehensive analysis of what can help to ensure enough qualified teachers in Norwegian school in the years to come. As Stortinget dealt with the initiative of the Center Party, unfortunately the government did not seize this opportunity to get on the offensive. On the contrary, it seems that the toolbox is quite empty, and also that the performance attached to previous decisions is very high. At the turn of the month, the Central Statistical Office, with updated projections up to 2040, showed that the situation in the future would be even more serious than previously assumed. Nevertheless, the draft budget does not contain any new measures to remedy this situation. It seems that the government is constantly heading forward towards a long notified teacher crisis in Norwegian school. Is the state council worried about the situation and the new projections from the SSB, or does the government maintain that the situation will resolve itself gradually?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e221	Let me first say that the government is concerned that we should have good, motivated teachers in school, and that we should have qualified teachers to teach. So it's true, as the representative says, that we've got new statistics that show that we have a challenge in the future. We can't just lean back and say that this is going to take care of itself. On the contrary, there is something we need to work with continuously. The government does. We have launched a series of measures. For some of them, it's too early to say what effect they want. For example, we have opened up to write down student loans. Those who now start teacher training can be credited up to NOK 161000 of their student loan, and then get one most if one chooses to take elementary school teacher training for 1–7. Class, because there we need even more, and if you choose to take a job in North Norway, where we also see that we have an extra challenge. It's the students that start now, that will enjoy it, and we can't say what effect it will have, yet. We've put in $10 million. kr that we're going to use to recruit teachers. Those funds are distributed across our universities and colleges – with more to the places where we see it being the most needed. Recruitment needs to be done largely locally. We've spent a little bit of that money doing a little bit nationally, but essentially it has to happen locally. There's also a lot of good recruitment work out there, and when we look at the numbers we get in, we see that more people want to be teachers. We see that more people attend teacher training, but we have to get them through teacher training. It doesn't help us get more people to start if we don't get them through education. So it's a challenge. We have to get them into the teaching profession, and then we have to keep them in the teaching profession. We all prefer to have some of the teachers out there today, back in the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e232	It seemed to me that the Council of State would refer to a positive increase in the search for primary school teacher education. That is good, but it is a fact that this year too, there are a large number of vacancies in teacher training around the country. At the same time, more than 600 teachers were rejected because they did not have the fourth requirement in mathematics in order. It is completely impossible to understand that teacher training cannot be based on average characteristics, as many other courses in Norway actually do. It's kind of part of the basic -- I think -- for the problem. In addition, there is the teaching standard, which will lead to increased competition between parts of the country, between regions, about the qualified teachers, and it is a major challenge for Norwegian districts. So the teacher's lack is not passing. I think that if you don't have a more comprehensive plan for how to do something about it, you won't get ashore either, because in 2021 you also have a knack attached to the master's education for teachers. As stated by the Council of State, teacher training in North Norway is already very serious – 20 pst. of which the municipalities have over 20 pst. unqualified teachers. What will the government do with that in addition to the depreciation of loans?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e240	It's right, as the representative says, we see that there are different distributions of applicants for teacher training. While some universities and colleges experience very large search and waiting lists to get in, there are other institutions and campuses who feel that they have seats available. We have therefore also had a distribution of recruitment funds based on where the need is great – including North Norway, as the representative says. That's also why you get extra written off on the study loan, just to target your efforts towards North Norway. I certainly believe that it is important that we have high demands for access to teacher training. This is an education that has also previously had character requirements in some subjects, but in the past, the character requirement was 3 in mathematics to get in. It's now increased to Character Requirement 4. Despite that, or because of that, we see an increase in the number of applicants and the number of students attending the education. I think it is good that we make demands to make the profession and education more attractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e245	It opens for follow-up questions – first Marit Knutsdatter Strand.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e250	A decentralised university and higher education structure is essential to ensure equal access for all parts of the country to skilled labour for services near people — as teachers. This has allocated responsibility and opportunities for practice, student furniture and proximity to professional environments to different parts of the country. Now there is a reduction in the offer of smaller campers. Last year began, among others. North University to look at its structure. Here is a discussion of the professional activity and the places of study they are going to have. I visited Campus Nesna, with long traditions of teacher training, earlier this fall. They have good candidate numbers, a good research environment, good implementation and high well-being. Their future, however, is uncertain. How will the government ensure that decentralised places of study, smaller campers and teacher training are not gradually reduced? And what opportunities do educational institutions have to maintain campuses and study facilities around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e257	I myself was visiting Lister Competence on Monday and heard how they have worked to get a well-decentralised education offer, precisely on the basis that there is a region that also needs competence. They pointed specifically at nurses and want to train those who already live there, so that they have the skills they need in their municipality. Then it is not possible to put under the chair that there are different experiences with decentralised offers. Some places they succeed well and have good cooperation with the region and the university. Second places are put down, as the representative also says, with slightly different reasons. There is little background in the applicants, but also in the fact that universities and colleges are unable to provide a good enough offer. They see that there is a high percentage of ironing and a high level of non-response, i.e. that they are qualitatively unable to deliver a good enough offer. It's up to the universities themselves to set up and shut down offers, that's part of the economy they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e264	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e269	It is alarming to see that the government is so passive to the growing shortage of teachers and is blind to the long-awareness of the teacher crisis. Some of these state councils have a special responsibility for, are the quality of teacher training and ensuring that newly educated teachers remain in the profession. It is alarming to see statistics on the number of people leaving education. It doesn't help much to boast about how many people have applied if we can't get these to complete and become teachers. Some state councils could do something about it, the overbooking of the number of students. That I think would have a lot to say for the quality of education. It is also alarming to see how many people end in the first few years while they are newly trained in the profession. One of the measures we know will work against this is to provide guidance for newly-trained teachers. A few of the graduates receive this kind of guidance. In the last period, the Swedish Pedagogical Representative Nybø made a decision at the pedagogical party to celebrate a decision in the Stortinget that left behind. [[President clubs]] My question is therefore: will the Council of State Nybø ensure this guidance in a regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e278	As the representative is involved, teacher training is my constitutional responsibility. It's my responsibility – and really my goal – to get the most potential students through education. Disability is a challenge we have, not only in teacher training, but also in the teaching profession. One of the steps taken now is to make teacher training five years old. We have an international group that looks at our teacher training and gives us feedback. We have not yet received the final feedback from them, but the preliminary feedback is that the new teacher training is a good teacher training. Then we'll look at the tips for improvements that they come with. I believe that doing teacher training at five years of age is important qualitative because it strengthens teacher training by increasing it by one year. It's quite new, we haven't seen the full impact yet, but we have to get them into the profession afterwards, and then I think the incentives we've put there are important. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e287	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions. The President is a little strict on speaking time, but it's 1 minute, and that's how it's going to be in this questioning process as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e294	The forecasts from the SSB up to 2040 point in particular to the lack of qualified teachers of 1 to 4. steps. In the Christian People's Party, we think it is possible to take more effective steps to reduce the teaching shortage, such as. more decentralised teacher training and the introduction of a mentoring scheme, which we have already proposed in our alternative budget for 2019, to mention something. But if we look at the projection, we can also read that while there are too few teachers, there will be a surplus of pre-school teachers. With a school to hopefully become a better school for six-year-olds, with more room for play as a learning method, the Council of State will consider the possibility of exploiting the profits of pre-school teachers and, through additional training, enabling them to become qualified to teach from 1 to 4. Steps, so that they can also help solve some of the learning shortage?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e301	I think that is a very constructive proposal to look at. Because, as the representative says, we have an extra challenge in terms of teachers for the youngest students, and then this is one proposal we can consider. We have these incentives with credit write-downs; we give more money – a larger write-down – to those who choose to take primary school teacher training for 1–7. Steps, precisely because we see that there is a great need. Then I want to add my own personal opinion: we need to talk about teacher training for the youngest students as something that is professionally challenging, and we need to focus on what skills are needed to carry out pedagogical work for the smallest students, so that it appears to be a profession with challenges – an important profession. It's a problem we all have: to talk about the importance of teacher training also for the youngest students.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e308	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e314	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There is a worrying situation with regard to nuclear disarmament. The powers invest more in nuclear weapons, and we have a new nuclear power, North Korea. Upgrading also increases the risk of nuclear war. If we look back in our history, we must be able to say that it is not least because of luck that the long, cold war took place without the nuclear weapons being used. If the nuclear arsenals stay standing, it is realistic that they will be put into service, either in war or by accident. Now that the world is getting colder again and the powers are standing up more against each other, we need to avoid a situation where we're once again dependent on luck to avoid nuclear war. In today's situation, all concrete disarmament initiatives seem to fail. There is only one process that can really be believed right now, and that is the ban process that has been initiated in the United Nations. Those who oppose the ban process end up in practice in today’s situation for nuclear weapons — and tragically, Norway has been on the wrong side. I am pleased that the government has carried out an investigation into Norway's relationship with the ban on nuclear weapons. But it is ten pages long, superficial and one-sided. By comparison, the Swedish similar investigation is expected to be 200-300 pages long. They have recently extended the deadline because it is an important and important work. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that she has provided a good and thorough basis for a wide-ranging debate on the ban on nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e327	The Government has delivered the request decision for the Storting. We also had a fairly thorough debate on the issue in February. It became very clear that there is no majority in the Storting to neither sign nor ratify. We have conducted a professional investigation based on input from both civil society organisations, from professional environments and from expertise, and we believe that we have provided a good and solid basis for taking that discussion further this autumn. Then I fundamentally disagree with the premise of the representative Lightbakken that all concrete initiatives in the disarmament field are now failing, that it is only the Treaty of Prohibition that succeeds. It's rather the opposite. The Prohibit Treaty has led to a significant polarisation in disarmament work, while the concrete work in which Norway has a leading role, namely the verification of disarmament, is what actually succeeds. There we are now working by leading an expert group in the United Nations – they have a meeting while we are talking – and we are working with the United Kingdom, the United States and Sweden on, among others. disarmament exercises involving verification. We also work very actively with the IAEA when it comes to reducing the use of high-rich uranium in the civil sector. This is important because high-enriched uranium can also divert — and fall into the hands of, among others. terrorists. I believe that the work that Norway is now doing in terms of verification is the work that is successful in the UN and globally, while the discussions on the prohibition treaty are now very polarising and do not at all contribute to bringing the disarmament work forward – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e336	The situation is that the major powers invest in new nuclear weapons. One might say that the story of disarmament agreements that have succeeded has often been about some polarization. We have to delegate having weapons of mass destruction. What Norway is doing with its position is, on the contrary, being involved in legitimizing that the major powers retain their nuclear arsenals. I mean, as I said, the investigation is thin, but we're still going to take it seriously. One of the interesting questions it addresses is the question of whether it would be legally impossible or not for Norway to join the ban. I read the report like this, and I think there are good reasons why there is nothing in Norway's NATO membership that implies any legal or political obligation to support nuclear deterrence. It is clear that it will be unpopular in Washington and Brussels if Norway joins the ban, but I read the report so that it will not be impossible. It's not legally impossible, it's a political question. Does the Foreign Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e345	Once again, I think it's important to be aware of the premises here. One of the reasons why the prohibition treaty fails is that it does not cover any of the nuclear weapons states. Having a discussion about disarmament and trying to find mechanisms without having nuclear weapons countries with it has little chance of success. Again, Norway’s initiative and leadership role in verification differ positively from that picture, simply because the five NPT countries, the nuclear weapons states, are involved in the work. With regard to the issue of the obligations and the findings of the investigation, it is true that the representative Lysbakken says that there is no legal obligation to ensure that Norway may not be able to sign or ratify, but there are strong political ties both through the Atlantic Pact and, of course, through the strategic documents to which we have joined, to which the Audun Light Hill government agreed in 2010, that NATO also has a strategic concept that involves nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e352	It opens for follow-up questions – first Audun Lighthouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e357	I am pleased that the Foreign Minister states that this is a political issue, not a legal one. That's what I think is neat and important for the further process we're going to have in Stortinget. There are issues of political will. It is also important to state that there are no things about nuclear weapons in the Atlantic Pact. It's in NATO's strategic concept it's mentioned, and it's something else. It is the Atlantic Pact which is the legal platform for NATO. The red-green government took a lead in this work, but Norway changed sides when the blue government took over. Now we see that this debate is going on in several NATO countries. It is true that the major powers are not involved in the ban process, but there is no way to get the major powers into it unless other countries that do not have nuclear weapons go ahead first. If Norway, a country that has such a long tradition of leading the way in disarmament work, does not participate in this process, there is, of course, less pressure on the major powers to do the same. Let me ask the Foreign Minister if the situation in her eyes will change if other NATO countries show the willingness to join us in a serious discussion about signing the ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e368	That's right, as I said, and the representative Lyssbaken summed up, that this is about political bonds. It's very clear from the investigation as well. That said, a very important reason why Norway does not want to sign or ratify – as the government has made clear – is that we believe that the prohibition treaty is not the right or the best way to bring about disarmament. The fact that there are so polarized debates on such an important issue as disarmament now, and that they have increased in many ways, is an important picture that even if countries sign the agreement – yet it is not ratified yet, it must be of 50 states in order for it to come into force – it will therefore not remove a single nuclear warhead from the continuation of that debate. What can help is just the verification discussion, the technical, practical and concrete work for disarmament. In our opinion, it is also in our interest that we have a disarmament policy that does not contribute to more polarisation but contributes to concrete results.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e375	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e380	I believe that the strategy outlined here by the Foreign Minister lacks realism. It is often that we who are for the prohibition are accused of lack of realism. I'm going to be the first to say that getting through an atomic ban that the major acts over time join, is an extremely difficult process. But to get nuclear disarmament and to remove the nuclear threat without it seems with respect to report much less realistically. The situation now is the opposite of what we want. The risk of nuclear confrontation is increasing. Then the question is where the realism of the government's strategy is. What realism is there in the fact that the major powers will stop basing their policy on nuclear weapons, when not even Norway can say that it is wrong? Then my question is: if it turns out that the debate we have here is going – as it does – in other European parliaments, and other NATO countries show the willingness to discuss serious signing, will the Foreign Minister be willing to review it again?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e389	I think it's the government line here that's the realistic one. Everyone agrees on the goal, a world free of nuclear weapons. The question is just how do we get there, and what's the best way? There is a distinction between the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government, and that is quite right. Working actively and concretely with verification, with high-rich uranium, with various mechanisms to help achieve a verifiable and irreversible disarmament, I believe is both a realistic, pragmatic and a right track. There is nothing to suggest that NATO countries do not want to sign or ratify. This is very evident in the strategic concept to which the representative of the then government of Lightbaking joined. The Atlantic Pact provides the political leaders with what allies are going to do for each other, and the strategic concept is, of course, a derivation of the Atlantic Pact. So there's no realism in believing that NATO countries are about to start changing their policies in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e396	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e402	The Central Party is working to ensure that Norway's position on the UN ban on nuclear weapons becomes its own case in the new year, on the basis of solid investigations. According to international law, Norway as a member of NATO is not prevented from signing the UN nuclear ban. The programme of the Centre Party clearly states that we must 'work for an international binding agreement prohibiting nuclear weapons'. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is twofold. Firstly, will the Foreign Minister support the treatment of the issue as a matter of its own in the new year? Secondly, can the Minister of Foreign Affairs point to the main measures being taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to reduce the risk of nuclear weapons being used against Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e409	What the representative Lundtigen says, that the international juxtaposition does not prevent Norway from signing, is exactly what is now apparent in the investigation in the Stortinget. The government is very clear, through a thorough and good investigation, how it behaves, both legal and political. It was also the assignment we received from Stortinget. To the question of supporting the handling of a case: Of course, it is quite up to Stortingen to consider how Stortinget wants to deal with the matter. The government has delivered in respect of the mission of the Stortinget, a professional investigation, contained in the budget proposal. So Stortinget then has to consider how they want to take the matter further. Then, of course, the government is open to what the Storting primarily wants. Of course, the government works along many different tracks in terms of the general nuclear threat. We work politically, of course, both to help reduce the voltage level and to put in place mechanisms for verification and risk reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e418	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e423	My question goes to the Council of State Nybø. There is a broad political consensus that student exchange between countries is very positive. I also believe that the Council of State fully agrees with the importance of having students from different countries for short or longer stays in Norway, including students from the south and from the very poorest countries. It is good for the place of study and the students, and it is good for the countries that foreign students return to. But we now see that there are fewer and fewer poor students from the global south of Norway. I think that is a loss both for Norway, for the students and for the countries affected. The main objective of the programme was to contribute to the building of skills in the student’s home countries, to link institutions and businesses in the recipient countries to the global knowledge society and to strengthen the international cooperation of Norwegian institutions. We agreed on this was very valuable and important. However, in the 2016 conversion, which was also supported by the Christian People's Party, we underlined that it would be fully possible to take full advantage of Norway also during the new programmes. We pointed out that good transition arrangements had to be made so that a conversion would not affect the weakest student groups. Now, however, we see that students from poor countries fall outside. We are now in a vulnerable transition phase between schemes — the new programmes do not contribute enough to enabling students from poor countries to study in Norway. How will the Council of State now follow this up so that the intention of the allowance scheme can be met? How will she ensure that students from the poorest countries will continue to be able to study in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e436	I fully agree with the representative that student mobility is important. The fact that Norwegian students travel abroad, the fact that foreign students come to Norway, makes us better. When we made the conversion from the allowance scheme to the new scheme NORPART, there were different reasons for that. First of all, the quota system focused most on the individuals who came to Norway and got their education here, without necessarily bringing any benefits to the institution from which they came – or not to the country from which they came, because in many cases we saw that they did not go home to the country from which they came, but that they traveled to other countries, such as the United States, Canada, etc. Secondly, the institutions themselves did not feel that it strengthened cooperation. The new scheme, NORPART, is considering doing just that. There, institutional cooperation must be much stronger. And then it's not a goal that we're going to get fewer students from the global south to Norway, but they're going to be here much shorter, and that's why we want fewer students here at all times. Now it's relatively recent that we did the conversion, so it hasn't fully worked yet, because we still have quota students in Norway – and as I understand it, the proportion is about. 40 pst. of the long-term perspective of NORPART, but it will change in 2019. Then a larger part will go to NORPART. So the conversion that has been done has positive effects at institution level, which means that we get a lot closer cooperation between Norwegian institutions and the institutions in the global south.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e445	I thank you for the answer and will again stress that the Christian People's Party supported the conversion, but we also expressed a clear concern that there had to be clear leadership that at least as many students from the poorest countries would be part of the new arrangement. In particular, we were concerned that we were not going to get a turn towards getting fewer students from the global south and more from those countries that we can call middle-income countries. There has been an evaluation of this, and when we already see that the conversion has contributed to a sharp reduction in the number of students from the poorest countries, will it not be important for the Council of State to take action now, so that we can rapidly change this, as at least we believe is clearly negative consequences of this conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e452	Student mobility is a very important topic, and therefore the government has started a work with a big message about student mobility. The representative Count also gives a full name. In the NORPART system today, the degree is not fully taken; only parts of their degree are taken in Norway. It also makes there fewer students here at any time. Although the number as such can be maintained, they will be here much shorter, and so there will be fewer students in Norway at any time. But there will also be something that we can look at in connection with the big picture we're working with right now. We have started the work, and it will be completed around the turn of the year 2019/2020. Then we'll be able to assess whether we're going to have a great deal as part of this, whether we're going to have other types of countries into the NORPART cooperation, or whether there are other ways it's going to develop further. But the transformation that has been made must strengthen institutional cooperation. It was an important part of the conversion, and I still believe that it is important to focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e459	It opens for follow-up questions – first Nina Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e464	Knowledge is global, and we in the Workers' Party believe that internationalisation is a prerequisite for quality in both research and higher education. The Government has reduced the allowance scheme for students from developing countries in favour of other programmes, such as the Panorama Strategy and NORPART. We in the Labour Party opposed the closure of the quota system, among others. because this was also a way of providing assistance, and we believe that both the global south and the Norwegian trade union community are losing out on it. We are also concerned about the sharp increase in the visa fee for foreign students. We do not see that the government's compensation arrangements have had good enough effect. Diku, the Directorate for Internationalisation and Quality Development in Higher Education, has now evaluated the quota system and the conversion of the programmes for internationalisation. I would like to ask the Council of State how the results of the evaluation are followed up by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e473	As I said, NORPART gets so far good evaluations. We see that it strengthens institutional cooperation between the Norwegian institutions and the institutions out there with which they cooperate. In the context of the big message we are currently working on, there will be opportunities to look at different ways of setting up the NORPART cooperation and whether there is a need to make some changes. But the great benefits of the transformation that has been made, and of which we see the consequences, are that institutional cooperation is strengthened, and that it is not just focused on the individual level. It was so that individuals who came and took their entire degree here did not necessarily go home. Then stood the institution and the country they came from, without getting the advantage they could bring back. It is true that there is also an aid element in this, but those who come to Norway – in so far as also in the context of NORPART cooperation – are much the privileged part of these countries, in order to get higher education, to get so far as to receive higher education. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e480	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e486	Yesterday, probably ended an international meeting on chaos and violence that NATO's bombing war left in Libya, with no solution in sight. Libya has no functioning government, the population is subject to the terror field to competing armed groups, and the country, which, according to the United Nations, was Africa's most prosperous until 2011, is today affected by poverty and abuse. Al Qaida and IS are now using Libya as a base for terrorist attacks in Africa, the Middle East and Europe, and weapons as NATO-allied rebel groups looted from Libyan stockpiles are scattered to Islamist terrorists across large parts of the world. On 9 May 2011, Ine M. Eriksen Søreide, then head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, spoke in the Stortinget for continued Norwegian participation in the Libyan War. Then Norwegian bombers and NATO bombers were doing well to destroy the Libyan state power and help rebel groups, including Libyan Al Qaida, to take power in the country. But Eriksen Soreide assured that the Libya war would contribute to a more predictable world order. My question is, in the light of the chaos in Libya, in the light of the use of Libya as a base for terrorist operations in Europe, in Africa and in the Middle East by Islamic terrorist groups: does the Foreign Minister think that the Libyan war contributed to a more predictable world order?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e495	I think the important thing to answer such a question is to include the whole context. We should remember that there was a unanimous outburst behind the decision of the then government to participate in the operation, and the reason for this was that at that time there was an unusually brutal behaviour against the civilian population from Muammar al-Gaddafi. It was an international world community and the United Nations that asked for it to be reacted. And I think most people, given what we see in the Libyan investigation and the evaluation that has come after, are also aware that some of what was missing was a strategy for what was to happen afterwards. I have not been in Stortinget as a wholesaler and given insurance, but I have pointed out – and I did – that during the debate that the situation as it was was dramatic and could not continue. That's why the Storting gathered behind the red-green government by going to action. I also think it is important to look back at that operation – which is done on all the operations in which you participate – to recognise that not to contribute, not to make a decision, is also a decision that has consequences. And then you can agree or disagree if the decision you're making is right. But when you make these decisions, it'll typically be a choice between less good alternatives. It's always when it's about the use of military power, and it was also in the case of Libya. But the Storting chose to stand behind the decision the government made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e504	After all, the British parliamentary report states that the war was based on false assumptions and that there was no evidence of the allegation of a future genocide. When the NATO countries persuaded Russia and China not to veto the UN resolution on Libya, they also said that the resolution was not to be used for regime change. So there was a war of regime change, and this breach of promise here has created more distrust between the powers of the Security Council and has also led us further away from a rule-based and UN-driven world order. But the Libyans have paid the highest price. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs whether the Government will really complain about the Libyan people, both the killings of civilians, the destruction, the chaos and the terror that the regime change war has brought on them, and also want to get an answer to when the government will explain the Libyan report to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e511	Finally, there is a dialogue that is now in progress between the Storing and the Government to find a suitable date. As far as I know, and the last thing I heard was that it is once early in the New Year, January 8th – it confirms the committee leader, so the answer to that is given. To the question of the UK report: I think it is important for Norwegian conditions to look at the Norwegian report. It is a large and extensive piece of work that was presented, which is fully public, and there also part of the dilemmas that were presented. It is a government decision, and so it was the then government that made the decision, but with full support in the Storting. I believe it is important that when you go back and assess whether that effort was good or bad, you also have to see it in the light of the context that it was then. It wasn't a regime change war, nor was it the goal of the action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e518	It opens for follow-up questions – first Bears Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e523	Yes, there was an important point in the Norwegian Libya report, namely that the government must have known that NATO had a regime change war as the goal of the war. So the question is what the Storting knew, and what the then head of the Foreign and Defence Committee knew. Did she know that NATO waged war for regime change? This is important, because if Eriksen Soreide knew this, she was involved in leading the people behind the light – in May 2011, she didn't know it, so that means the government withheld information from the head of the Swedish Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee. That is why the question is quite important to get an answer. Did Eriksen Soreide, when she spoke here in Stortinget on 9 May 2011 about continued bombing war against Libya, know that the NATO countries were waging war in the country for regime change, which the Libyan report shows that the Norwegian government must have been fully aware of?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e528	Once again, I think it's necessary to clear the premises quite strongly here. What the Libya report points to is that, in addition to the operation, it may have become clear that this was what was going to be the result, but claiming that at that time one had as an explicit objective from NATO to wage regime change wars, as the representative of Moxnes calls it, I believe is a wrong premise. What the previous government knew as the basis for its decisions, the representative Moxnes must ask the previous government, it is not for me to assess. The majority received fairly consistent and continuous information from the government in connection with meetings of the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, in a very common way, and the information provided there was of course the information provided by the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e535	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e540	As the newspaper Khrono has documented, the government has saved more than 900 million since 2014. kr by weakening the support scheme for the students. The biggest single increase came in this year's draft budget, where the government will cut the grant share by 256 million. kr. Students who do not complete the entire degree will receive significantly more loans with this change than before. This will penalise students who either do not complete a degree or change direction along the way in the studies, and it will be a ‘discincentive’ to get more continuing education. It is also doubtful whether this will lead to better implementation. The University and Higher Education Council feels that it is failing in terms of non-response and that it is not building up under lifelong learning and interdisciplinary. The Norwegian student organisation has collected more than 18,000 signatures against, and has received agreement from, the entire sector – all the student organisations, many trade unions and, in addition, the University and Higher Education Council, the Academics, the Union and the NTL, to name a few. They ask that the government retain the scholarship and put aside the proposal. We in the Workers' Party also do not support the conversion system, and we return the whole cut in our budget. Instead, we want to invest more in continuing education. We will prioritise better study quality and closer follow-up in order for more students to complete their education. Why does the Council of State think it is a good idea to cut the grant rate for students in higher education at a time when more people have to calculate to take more education and more shorter courses?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e547	I want to start by saying that the students have got more money to go with during this government than they had before. The students have received NOK 11 600 more than they would have received without the efforts made by the Solberg government from 2014 to 2019. 8 100 of these are due to the escalation of 11 months of study support. The change we are making in the conversion system in this budget will be assessed by the Storting through the negotiations that are currently taking place. The background is that only a little over six out of ten that starts at one degree, completes its degree. It's lower than the OECD average, and there's reason to worry about it. It's important that the students who start the study complete their degree. It's important for society that we get candidates that business and employment need. But it is also important for the individual, who is to negotiate wages on the basis of the skills they have when they get out of work. The conversion we're doing now will have no consequences for the students while they're in the study. They will still get as much as before, in fact more than before, since the government's proposal involves an extra week of study support. This conversion will be disabled when they are going to start paying back the student loan, and as seen in the job. The change is small: we're saying that of the 40 pst. which is currently being converted as a result of study scores, 15 pst should be used. converted as a result of degree, not only on the basis of study scores.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e554	Last week, the Council of State organised a student summit in the government's representative housing. The student newspaper Universitas has reacted to the fact that when the state council invited the students, it was not to address the theme that the student politicians are currently burning the most, namely the scholarship cut. This, apparently, would not be discussed by the Council of State, despite the fact that this is perhaps the biggest and most serious change in the budget for the students. Does not support the Government's own proposal, or was cut at 256 million. against the will of the state councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e562	Of course, I am behind the budget proposal that the government has presented, and I think it is important that the students complete a degree to a greater extent. When just a little over six out of ten who start an education, finish their degree, there's reason for concern, and there's reason to do something about it, and that's what we're doing with the draft budget that's available. No students out there need to be concerned that I should not have got what the students think about this proposal. The fact that this was not a topic at the student summit has its reasons for several things, firstly that the government has submitted its proposal to the government budget to the Stortinget. This case is no longer on my table, it is on the Stortings table. The second is that we're now doing two important big shots, where I want to get the students' opinion, their input, early in the process. This was the first time we arranged such a student summit. I think it was a success, I got a lot of good input, and I hope we can repeat such a meeting on later occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e569	It opens for follow-up questions – first Nina Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e574	Thanks for the answer. Part of the government's policy is the scholarship cut. Another part is that with the Left in government it has become increasingly difficult to take education. This summer we know that the record number, 26 657, applicants who were qualified, was unsolicited. From 2013 to 2017, this figure increased by about 70 pst for qualified applicants who did not qualify. Despite the high number of applicants and a situation where many under 30 years are absent from both work and education, since 2013, the government has barely proposed new places of study, not even in disciplines where demand is high, for example: nurses and engineers. Even after the Left came into the government and after the purchase received the State Council for Higher Education, the government will give more opportunities to start an education. Why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e579	Once again, I would like to make it clear that the conversion scheme that we have now proposed will not lead to anything cut in student support while they are studying. They'll get paid more than they've got before, while they're students. With regard to the number of applicants for higher education, it is quite right, as the representative says, that there are many who want to take on higher education, and initially it is up to the institutions — universities and colleges — to adjust their offer in line with their skills, in line with their demand. Then in the last few years, we've given money to a number of new places of study. Also in this budget, we spend several hundred million dollars on stepping up the places of study that we've given in the past. But we see that there are many who want to apply for higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e586	Marit Knutsdatter Strand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e591	It is for the most part revealed how the government finances its actions for the students: by letting the students pay for themselves. Conversion of the grant conversion scheme weakens the economy of a previously vulnerable group. It is obvious that this does not solve the underlying reasons why many students are delayed in the studies and drop out along the way. The centre party strongly responds to the government's procedure. After suggesting measures in the last year's budget proposal, the government should investigate the matter and involve the student organisations. But no, this year's proposition lacks consistency and explanation for the proceeds calculation. The Central Party will propose that the matter not be dealt with at present, but that the Government should come back to the Storting in the revised budget with a more thorough calculation. I wonder: On what basis does the government believe that increasing the financial uncertainty of students will motivate them to take and pursue higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e598	Now it's up to Stortinget how the government's proposal is going to be dealt with in the future, but the reason why the government has proposed this is precisely, as I explained, that we want to add financial incentives for more people to complete their education. It's worrying when only a little over six out of ten who start higher education, completes a degree. It is worrying when we see that we are below the OECD average, and it is important to get students through education. But then there's been a point for us, too, that when you study, you get paid the money the same way. Whether you can complete your degree or not, you get the money you want, paid. If you don't complete the degree, have taken a year that can't be included in that degree, and so if you don't get it converted, it's $17,000 -- a little over $17,000 -- it's about, and I don't think you're avoiding changing your mind if there's another $17,000 in loans... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e605	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e610	In August a year ago, Stavanger Aftenblad said: «If we focus on student welfare and the full-time student, we will hopefully get fresher students, better results and less drop-out in return. The students are future» regards Iselin Nybø. It agrees with SV, but the figures presented by the government show that the government's investment in students is a total cut of approx. 300 million. kr. I understand that the government believes that neither the students nor we in the opposition can count, but these are the numbers we got from the government. Once the Storting has decided to introduce eleven months of study support, is it to strengthen the students’ financial situation and not weaken it? Was that what Iselin Nybø meant by his statement on August 3rd, a year ago – that the students would pay this so-called bet sail?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e622	The students get more money. They get over NOK 11,000 more now than they would get without the government's bets. They get NOK 8 100 more as a result of the escalation we've started. The fact that we get the student support up to eleven months is of great importance to the students. The very point is that you just need the money when you study, and these students get more money here and now. So while they're students, they get over NOK 11,000 more than they would get without the government's investment, and without the escalating to 11 months' student support. In addition, other important measures are coming, such as continuing the high expansion of student housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e629	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e635	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Not long ago, a politician stood on the platform in this Chamber and spoke warmly for why the country should not be part of the European Union. The politician also marked himself as a clear opponent of the EEA. The politician was clear in his defence of international cooperation. Yes, the politician even called for enhanced international cooperation and the establishment of new trade cooperation in Europe. This could have been a representative of the Central Party, but it was the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Theresa May – a prime minister representing the sister party to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister of Norway. The British stand up in demanding days. This also shows the wisdom of what the majority of the Norwegian people have provided, against the will of the Right, not to enter the EU, to realize that it was a bad idea, and then try to get out again, as the British have done. Brexit presents challenges, but it also offers great opportunities. It provides opportunities to build closer and stronger cooperation with our close ally and main trading partner. I have visited the United Kingdom myself several times this year, and what goes on is a clear desire for enhanced cooperation with Norway. But what goes on again is the question: What is Norway going to do? What is our strategy? And it's unfortunately very difficult to get an eye on despite repeated questions from the Center Party in this room. We need to have a clear and clear strategy that provides different scenarios. That is why I ask again: What is the government’s strategy on behalf of Norway to take care of Norwegian interests after Brexit?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e646	Of course, it is quite up to the British to assess whether they will be in the EU or not, but the truth is that we are building a very close and close relationship with the British even when they are in the EU. We do it because we're a near-nato ally, and we do it because we have a geographic location that makes it very natural for us to cooperate. Since the beginning of 2014 and the end of 2013, we have deepened and strengthened cooperation with central European countries, including the United Kingdom to the greatest extent. So there is no contradiction between close and good Norwegian-British cooperation and the question of British EU membership. As far as our strategy for different scenarios is concerned, yesterday we had a four-hour debate – which I think was very positive – related, among other things. brexit and other important EU/EEA matters. The government has always been very clear that we are planning along two tracks. We are planning both for a no deal scenario and for an orderly outsourcing agreement between the United Kingdom and the EU. Yesterday, the news came that the British government is going to meet today to discuss what is the draft of an announcement agreement. Now it is part of the story that it must be decided in government and adopted in Parliament. Nor does it solve the future relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom, but it resolves the transition period up to – probably – the end of 2020. So our strategy is to continue to have as close and close cooperation with the United Kingdom as possible. That's why we've prepared all the different options to make the transition as seamless as possible. At the same time, it will mean that in some areas we need to create new agreements. It will depend on the EU and the United Kingdom agreements. We want to reflect as much as possible on the agreements that are relevant to the EEA, in order to continue to have as seamless and strong a relationship as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e657	The Minister for Foreign Affairs is constantly saying that Norwegian foreign policy is starting in Europe, and that is clearly what is Norwegian foreign policy: to sit and wait for what the EU is doing, and to jump for the EU and ask what should be Norwegian views. The Norwegian people have said no to the EU, for example: to have an independent foreign policy and an independent commercial policy. Then we have to be clear about what our interests and our strategy are. Theresa May is standing on the platform here in Stortinget and says that she will build a new partnership between the EFTA countries and the United Kingdom in the future. The British do not want to be in the EEA, but one does not have to be in the EEA in order to participate in EFTA cooperation. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree with Theresa May that it makes sense to build a new partnership between the EFTA countries and the United Kingdom? And what kind of form will it take? Is this to be done by inviting the British back to EFTA, as they helped to start EFTA, together with Norway, through a trade agreement with EFTA or through other forms of cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e666	As the representative of Gülsvik knows, Norway, or other countries for that purpose, cannot begin negotiations on the future relationship with the United Kingdom until they have reached a call-out agreement with the EU. It's a procedure that lies there, and that we, like everybody else, have to deal with. Then I fully agree with what is also a key element of the government's strategy for cooperation with the EU, namely that Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe. But we cannot ignore the fact that one of the things that now connects Norway and the United Kingdom in the field of trade is that we are both fully part of and integrated into the internal market. Of course, when Britain is about to leave the internal market, there are consequences that require us to find other ways to organise our relationship with the United Kingdom. If there is now an agreement on the disfellowshipping agreement and a subsequent transitional period, the idea is that the United Kingdom should continue as if they were an EU member during this period, but without any opportunity to influence regulatory design. So in that period things will be pretty much like today, but the future relationship we have to seriously start organizing and negotiating when the United Kingdom is out of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e675	It opens for follow-up questions – first Sigbjørn Gülsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e680	I did not ask for a summary of the process ahead between the EU and the United Kingdom. I am also well aware that formal negotiations will come into force after the British have left the EU. That date is getting closer. What's the question, what are we doing from the Norwegian side? The centre party has addressed this on a number of occasions. We have also made proposals in the Storting that there should be an assessment of the different consequences of brexit and its alternatives. Unfortunately, the majority voted in favour. So despite repeated questions, the Council of State is not clear as to what is Norway’s strategy. Let's take another scenario, that the British pass through with their demand to take control again in important areas, to build decisions and make decisions closer to people, which is a clear ambition for them. They can then come into a situation where they achieve greater national space for action than we have through the EEA Agreement. In such a situation, are we going to take the initiative to increase the national scope for action in Norway, or is it such that the government's strategy is simply to link ourselves more closely to the EU through the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e687	We have a large national space for action today, and we use it to influence both legislative design and Norwegian interests. It is precisely because being fully integrated in the internal market, having equal standards, a level playing field, having market access to 500 million people in 31 countries – just being in the EEA – is the best care for Norwegian interests. So I think it's a strange approximation to the situation that has now arisen after Brexit, that the government should take time to figure out different alternatives. We're working on different options. That's what we do every day, the whole government. In all of the departments, we'll identify what needs to be of supplementary agreements if it becomes an agreement, and if it doesn't become an agreement. We work closely with both the United Kingdom and the EU to find the best solutions to continue to have a close and close relationship with the United Kingdom. I believe that the representative Gülsvik does not always recognise the complexity of the relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU, and how difficult it is to emerge from it after 45 years of densely integrated economies. Clearly, it also has consequences for how we have to deal with ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e696	We're going to go to the last main question in the oral question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e701	The Minister of Foreign Affairs attended the UN Women's Conference in New York. It was a good signal at a time when more and more countries are tightening up on abortion legislation. But it is not so controversial to take the floor for women's rights at such a conference. The participants in the conferences are largely in agreement. The question is whether abortion is such an important issue that it comes on the agenda when the Minister for Foreign Affairs meets foreign ministers in countries that have tightened up or have very strict abortion legislation, or that have banned it. So has the Foreign Minister raised the question of abortion with the Foreign Minister in Poland, Malta, Nicaragua or other countries that have banned abortion?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e706	I think the representative Huitfeldt is well aware of Norway's leadership role internationally on this issue. We are working very actively both bilaterally and with other countries to help achieve rights and progress are not being pushed back, and we are also very concerned that the greatly increased appropriations we spend on sexual and reproductive health rights are being reflected in our policies internationally, of course, and in various organisations. It's a worrying trend around the world that we see many of the acquired rights being challenged by several teams. That's why we're also working on forming new alliances, because we don't have a lot of opportunities to get through to preserve the rights that have been acquired, or to achieve new ones, if we just form part of the same alliances where it becomes, for example. a European or a Western embossing, where one does not engage in land, for example. Latin America or Asia. What I think is positive is that in some areas we have recently experienced that in particular countries in Latin America have adopted a slightly different attitude than they had in the past. We had a meeting last Friday last week with the Americans where several countries, Norway to the highest degree included, were very clear that taking out languages on sexual and reproductive health from various UN resolutions is something we do not accept. That is why we are working both bilaterally and multilaterally with these issues, combined with a strong increase in funding for this work, because it is necessary. And we have, among other things, have entered into different partnerships to curb extractions, e.g.: U.S. Appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e717	I can only understand that the answer to my question is no. The question was not to explain what we agreed on, and what I think there is a great deal of agreement in this room. My question is whether this is so important to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that she addresses it at bilateral meetings with countries that have banned abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e723	As I said, we address these issues both bilaterally and multilaterally, because we believe they are very important. They also go into a broader perspective on human rights in general. Unfortunately, sexual and reproductive health is a challenging field. We see that a lot of what has happened to positive things in the last ten to fifteen years, is now experiencing setbacks, and that's exactly why we're taking it up. That's why we work with new partners, that's why we spend more money on it, and that's why we say clearly from also to our allies and friends when we think they're going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e728	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e742	There will be a number of changes in the set question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in the salap. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative of Mona Fagerås to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, will be raised by the representative of Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold. Question 8, from the representative Sheida Sangtarash to the Minister for Health, has been transferred to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs, who is directing him. At the request of the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs, the question is moved and answered before question 24, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 9, from the representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, to the Minister for Health, will be raised by the representative, Mr Solfrid Lerbreck. Question 20, from the representative of Hege Haukeland Liadal to the Minister for Health, has been transferred to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, who has been away. Question 23, from the representative Olivia Corso Salles to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health who is directing him. The question will be raised by the representative Petter Eide. Question 25, from the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, has been transferred to the Minister for Health who is directing him. At the request of the Minister for Health, the question will be moved and answered in response to question 20, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 26, from the representative Emilie Enger Mehl to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e768	‘The Minister of State has opened in the media to negotiate with the Christian People’s Party on the third paragraph of Section 2 of the Mortgage Act (c). In interviews, the Prime Minister has given the impression that this is possible without any restriction on women’s rights, and in the media there are leaks about different models of change that are supposed to be for discussion in the Prime Minister’s party. Is it appropriate for the government to make changes to the third paragraph of Section 2 of the Abortion Act (c)?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e775	The government doesn't have a job going on to change today's abortion permit. The political discussion in this area is about possible government negotiations. When signed meetings in the Questionnaire, I meet as Prime Minister of today's government. Then, in line with tradition, I meet to answer questions about government policy and procedure. The Biggest Questionnaire is not available to ask questions about the batches’ programming or batch-to-batch negotiations. Since both this and the subsequent questions are not about government policy, I could therefore refuse to answer. The same applies to other government councils that have been asked questions about the same issue. The political discussion between the parties in this area must respond, as is common in the programming work of the parties. Questions relating to any new platform may be answered by the government when it is completed and it is the basis of a government policy. With these reservations, let me still, despite being not here as the Right Leader, but as the country's Prime Minister, answer questions that the Right Leader. In the political debate that has taken place between the parties over the past few weeks, I have opened up negotiations on two areas of the abortion law in any negotiations with the Christian People's Party: foetal reduction and the part that is perceived as a discriminatory element in §2c of the abortion law. Modifying § 2c is not Right Policy, although we have different opinions about this in our party. On the other hand, we are open to negotiate the design of this provision, under certain clear conditions: that women's rights should not be weakened, that more attention should be paid to the woman's and family's assessment of their own life situation if they are given responsibility for a child with additional challenges, and that, of course, women should continue to have abortions in cases where the foetus is not viable. That is why, as I said in the debate on 1 November, this will in practice mean that women seeking abortion after the twelfth week, as much as today, will be granted abortion in the future. The right-hand side has no solutions, but we've opened up to negotiate this topic under the clear premises that I've now underlined. The negotiations on this will take place between four parties. If the Christian People's Party gets through in any government negotiations, it will have to start legal work in the usual way. The majority will then have ample opportunity to debate the matter and address all aspects of the change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e792	On Saturday, thousands of people are going to walk in the streets in many places around Norway. Strong emotions are in turn. I think many people feel that the way the debate is conducted, blames and shames, and makes ordinary women and families's choices an expression of a cold sorting society, and that is unfair and unfair. It is not unreasonable for these questions to be addressed in the Storting, for the Prime Minister has started this debate – not because it was needed in Norwegian society now, but because Erna Solberg needed it to keep its position. It is also reasonable to ask questions about the government’s view – the current government’s view – and what the government is doing. Therefore, I would like to reply to the following: If what is to be negotiated is the removal or rewriting of §2c, combined with greater emphasis on women's situation, does the Prime Minister understand that this is perceived by many as a real restriction on the right to abortion because it would result in an additional burden on women seeking abortion?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e801	On the basis of what the representative now says that it is not unnatural to hear what today's government's view is, today's government's view is quite clear: we do not want to make changes to the abortion law. That is what underlies the government that exists today, and that is what the government for which I, as Prime Minister, am here in the Question Time actually stands for. In this way, this is a question of possible future negotiations, possible results and possible issues that may come after a result. It is entirely in line with common practice that it does not respond to the Prime Minister of the Grand Duchy. Once I've chosen to do it now, it's like the Right Leader. But I also have to say that it means that the representatives who are asking questions about these issues today believe that for the future, the Stortinges question institute is present in order to be able to ask about negotiations that are going on in any government, programme handling of matters, to which all prime ministers before me have always systematically refused to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e806	I think the Prime Minister understands that she has created a special situation. That's probably also why she's gone to the step to meet here. That's what she's supposed to be for. But I think she's wise to see that the political situation requires it. That is why it was wise and necessary. Kjell Magne Bondevik, Kristin Ravnanger and a number of other KrFs associated with the Bondevik II government have recently stated to the media that changes to § 2c were not promoted at that time – not only because it was not a majority for it, but because it triggered so many ethical dilemmas. Kjell Magne Bondevik said to the NRK on 3 November that “it turned out in the work on it that it was very complicated both ethically and legally”. Isn't it very special that a Prime Minister from the Right has less concerns about changing the abortion law than a Prime Minister from the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e813	I was in the Bondevik II government. I have never experienced that a prime minister from the Christian People's Party has not wanted to change Section 2c. It is the party that has thought this most strongly in its principles and foundations. So claiming that I should have greater willingness to do this than a prime minister of the Christian People's Party is not right. I also put in that government where the conclusion was that although we had negotiated a result between the Christian People's Party, Left and Right that we should make changes to Section 2c, there was no majority on the Stortinget, and therefore one did not promote it. But it is absolutely right that there are some ethically important questions about this. That's also why we have some very clear conditions on the Right for what we have to do about other changes – which should not weaken women's rights but help to strengthen the family's experience. That's why these things have to be seen in context when it comes to constraints around this. But the claim that the prime ministers of the Christian People's Party have not wanted to change §2c, I think the Christian People's Party will feel very alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e823	‘The Minister of State has stressed that the third paragraph of point (c) of Section 2 of the Mortgage Act has a ‘discriminatory element’ and that it is important to build a ‘barrier’ against the ‘sorting society’. Can I invite the Prime Minister to explain why she thinks that women who look at themselves were content to have late abortion due to serious disease on the part of the foetus, i.e. a disease that could affect the child and the family for the rest of their lives, are asking for a responsibility to have paid for sorting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e830	Initially, I will refer to my introduction in the previous answer on what the questioning institute should be used for, and what it should not be used for. It's the way to expand what the question institute should be. Later governments will have to meet and answer for, according to the same principles that they now expect this government to do. The question of government issues is therefore in a category of questions that should not be asked in the questioning. I draw attention to the fact that the answer I give is not an expression of the government's attitude, since I repeat once again that the government does not have an ongoing work to change the abortion law. But then I want to stress that a development towards a sorting society is a concern I think I share with many. In the last 20 to 30 years, medical and technological developments have opened up a number of new opportunities in foetal diagnostics. In the past, the question of whether the child was well-formed or not, was far on the way standing unanswered until birth. Today, an early stage of pregnancy may detect or exclude diseases or developmental abnormalities in the foetus. The development challenges us on the ethical questions of where the boundaries go, what the individual should decide, and what society should decide. For example, it is ethically demanding to decide who will be offered different studies and when such studies may be carried out in pregnancy. As far as gender is concerned, a broad majority in the United Kingdom has made an active choice. The possibility of sorting children on the basis of gender contributed to the fact that health professionals cannot provide information on the sex of the foetus before the end of the 12th week, unless the woman is the bearer of a serious, gender-related disease. This may have contributed to the fact that we have not had a debate in Norway on so-called family balance, as we have seen in some other Western countries. I think it's important that we, as politicians, make choices that prevent that knowledge before the end of the 12th week helps us move towards a sort society. Furthermore, I think it is ethically demanding that today's law connects abortion access to the characteristics of a fetus – characteristics that several of our fellow humans share and live a good life with. Although Down's syndrome is not a disease, today this provides the basis for abortion after the twelfth week. This practice became, among other things: confirmed by Minister of Health and Care Jonas Gahr Støre, at the time, on written questions from the EEA representative Line Henriette Hämdal. The legal text, as designed, gives a signal from society to people with conditions that provide an independent basis for abortion. That's why we have answered yes to the challenge of the Vice-Chairman of the Christian People's Party that we are willing to discuss these issues and questions during negotiations, but also under some clear assumptions, as I have explained. Then I will be allowed to stress: I have never said that the individual woman bears a responsibility for sorting if she takes abortion on the basis of serious disease in the foetus. This is giving me opinions I don't have. I respect that the individual woman makes a choice based on her life situation, that many make choices that are difficult and that feel painful.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e849	I thank you for your answer. I would like to remind the Prime Minister that this situation has been created because the Prime Minister himself has invited a debate on this. It is not the opposition or any other party that has done so. Nor have women asked for this debate, it is the Prime Minister who has opened up to him. The consequence is that the questions are raised here. Since the Prime Minister attaches so much importance to the fact that today's government does not want to change the abortion law – there is no plan to do so in today's government, as she says, it is the right party leader who wants to – I would like to ask: What is the reason why today's government thinks that the abortion law is the best he can do now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e856	This was not a topic during the negotiations, it has not been affected during the negotiations between the three parties that are currently in government. At least there is no overall view of what the government really thinks is the important reason for this. There has not been a political theme between those parties. I want to stress that as politicians and legislators, we need to be aware that the choices we make are part of sending out signals about the values of our society. As politicians, we have to take responsibility for having a law that sets clear limits on the development of a sorting society. It is therefore important that we have a living, democratic discussion about the boundaries of technology, about the challenges that development creates for human dignity and ethics. It is thus never the responsibility of the individual woman, but a responsibility that we politicians and legislators have and should have. But we must be able to have the debate without saying that we are pushing the debate over to others. By taking the debate, it is precisely we politicians who do it – and do not push on responsibility or individualize it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e863	I record that we do not get a political explanation as to why today's government believes that the abortion law is best as he does now. What we get is a practical explanation that there was no topic in the negotiations. It must, of course, mean that once there has been a theme for a possible debate, the Prime Minister is willing to negotiate it. I'm taking the prime minister seriously. She says she wants to build a barrier to the sorting society. At the same time, she also says to the representative Lysbakken that she will not make any changes to the abortion law that have practical significance. Then my question is: How has the Prime Minister then built a barrier to the sorting society – if the changes do not have a practical meaning?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e870	I still want to remind the representative Hadia Tajik that I am responding as the Right Leader and not as Prime Minister. If I were to answer as Prime Minister, I should have refused to answer her questions in this questioning session. It is a premise for what I have said in the other answers as well. So the question about which limits we set. I think it's important that we have a good discussion in relation to the sorting society every time we use new technology and get more knowledge. One of the reasons why we – unlike the Workers' Party – have fallen down on the fact that early ultrasound should not be given to everyone is that we believe it increases the pressure of a sorting society. It's one of the examples of setting a limit attached to this. This also applies to other types of diagnostics that we choose not to make available at an early stage, other than those in risk groups, for example. with recurrent family, heritable, traits. It's among the areas that divide us, with different points of view related to sorting issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e880	I am pleased – despite all the formal objections of the Prime Minister to her being here in fact – that she is here. She says the signals the politicians send are important. When the Prime Minister in Norway sends a signal that she is open to talk about changing the abortion law, it is important which signals it is and that there will be debate. But the representatives of the government party will not take the debate. The Minister of Equality won't talk, the Right-Women won't talk. I'm glad she's here, and I'm glad she's taking the opportunity to respond, and then she gets the answer as Prime Minister. I've heard from the Right-Leaders in the past who have been prime ministers, that they've switched between those roles, but when she's prime minister, she has to be taken seriously. My question is, back to the uncertainty that has arisen about the consequences of what can be imagined in negotiations: ‘In press releases prior to the KrF national meeting, we have read that Prime Minister Solberg opens up support for changes in the law that include the right to abortion on the basis of point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 2 of the Abortion Act. While trustees in the KRF have been aware that the KRF expects fewer abortions to be granted, the Prime Minister has said that women’s rights should not be weakened. Can the Prime Minister clarify whether a government led by her will propose changes to the law that will prevent women who are granted abortion under the laws of today from getting it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e891	Now, this questioning procedure is such that it is assumed that a written question with premises is submitted and answered. The representative Jonas Gahr Støre now made an article that is not correct in relation to this questioning, with an oral impression in advance that is not in the written question. I'm just paying attention to it, because it belongs to the oral question procedure and not this question procedure. I'm going to answer what's the written question, and then we'd better go back to what's closer to a line chord change when we get to that part of the question mark. So this government doesn't have any work going on to change today's abortion permit. I would therefore like to refer to the assessment I have had of the Question Time Institute in the past. I would like to stress that the representative Jonas Gahr Støre now adds – I know that he has a desire to become Prime Minister in Norway once – that we can ask about significant things, and I expect him to respond to negotiations and he answers about programme work in the Workers' Party as Prime Minister, with the premises he has set up for this discussion. Because that's what's parallel. Themes for this issue are one of the many topics discussed among the four parties to negotiate a new government platform. Here, now, I'm answering first and foremost as the Right Leader, because it's like the Right Leader I've also answered, and it's clearly shown by the answers I've given in the media before. So I have made it clear that the question of the design of §2c of the abortion law can be discussed under some very clear conditions: Women’s rights should not be impaired. Greater emphasis shall be placed on the assessment of the life situation of women and families if they are given a responsibility for a child with additional challenges. And women are still going to have abortions in cases where the fetus is not viable. So, in sum, I think it is possible to make these changes to this legislation while all women who are seeking abortion after the 12th week, as much as today will be granted abortion in the future. So it's not the legislative changes that are going to bring down the number of abortion cases, we're going to do that with other types of measures. The government has, for example: the extension of the free-of-charge prevention scheme — the number of teenage pregnancies has fallen significantly in recent years — and has significantly strengthened health centre and school health services as a low-threshold option for young people to enter. In my view, this type of measure is the most important to reduce the number of abortions. But it is possible to do something about the experience that many people have had, that traits of an unborn child, with which you can live a long and rich life, are an independent basis for abortion. We have been open to discuss whether we can find other legislative changes that meet the three prerequisites I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e904	I just have to make it clear that the introduction to my question was probably not quite after script, but the question is correct in words what I have asked, and which she has prepared, and which she has also answered. Erna Solberg argues to open up to change the law, but the result shouldn't be that the number of abortions goes down. The representative Ropstad says that he does not expect a decrease in the number of Senabors, but that the removal of Section 2c will be an attitude-creating over time. We are then dealing with the concepts of ‘treatment change’ and ‘obtrusive’ as a result of changing this paragraph, which today opens up the possibility of having abortions caused by a seriously ill foetus. If you remove § 2c, more women with seriously ill fetuses have to meet in the name, and there they have to tell more about their personal challenges, and doctors have to use more discretion to maintain what the Prime Minister says – abortions are not to be reduced. So all this is being started to contribute to a change in attitude. My question is: Does the Prime Minister feel that there is reason to criticise the attitude of women who today are applying for abortion under Section 2c of the Abortion Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e913	The discussion is about what the law says, not the attitude of women who, for various reasons, want and seek abortion. The law assumes that the characteristics of the foetus are an independent basis for abortion. This has also been underlined by the representative Jonas Gahr Støre in the past – in his capacity as Minister of Health – in an answer to a written question. He pointed out that the understanding of the law and the interpretation of the law from the 1980s is such that, for example: Down's syndrome is such an example. That is, of course, the main challenge to a question of discrimination, for these are qualities that many can live well with, a rich life, and that are perceived as discriminatory. This is in a way what I think you have to have attitudes to, and questions we can do something about. So we're always going to have deep respect for the fact that this is a very difficult choice for all women who have chosen to have an abortion, whether it's before or after the twelfth week.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e920	I would say, for my part, that I reject the argument that this is a discriminatory wording. There is no mention of a single disease in that paragraph, and that's the answer I also gave. I referred to practice. Those who make these decisions make complicated assessments, and they don't take that very easy. If there is any discrimination in this respect, all parents who live with children – who have born and taken the decision – with serious diseases and who are severely nurturing, and who feel that they are putting their heads in the wall against a public system in which they get late answers, poor schemes and little/deficiency help. That is where we need to take action if we are to correct what is discriminatory. Then I'd like to ask the Prime Minister, wouldn't it have been better to make parents sure that society is actually dealing with families with seriously ill children, rather than putting up a game about abortion law? And if it hadn't been more important then, for example. not to make changes to the care system and rather to strengthen the arrangements that allow children to be cared for, with the needs they have?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e929	The law needs to be amended to remove the independent right to abortion if you have children with Down's syndrome, because that's how our case law has evolved. This means changing the legal text in order to remove that part of the law and move on to the basic view that it is the woman's experience of the situation, the family's experience of the situation, which should be given greater weight. It is not possible to say that the legal text is not there when you have a practice – which the Minister of Health, Mr. Støre, documented and responded to – that has been in Norway for more than 35 years, because that is what it says, which applies, unless the Storting actually does anything about it. So this is the discriminating part, in our opinion, in this paragraph. Then I agree that it is important to make changes to help children with long-term care needs and others. Therefore, we made changes to the care scheme, and therefore we doubled the number of recipients of the scheme. If the representative Jonas Gahr Støre now believes that we should not make those changes, there are very many of them who are giving birth to children who are long-term ill, who would not have it. But they've got it because we've given it, with changes from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e939	My question to the Prime Minister is as follows: ‘The number of children born to Downs has remained stable over the last 15 years. The use of the term ‘downs paragraph’ on the third paragraph of Section 2 of the Abortion Act (c) started in October 2018. The Prime Minister himself has used this term. Before the fall of 2018 the expression was almost not used. Does the Prime Minister think that such a label used about a neutral paragraph that embraces a lot of diseases increases or decreases the stigmatisation of people with Downs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e948	Paragraph 2(c) of the third paragraph of the Mortgage Act provides for a number of diseases and conditions, including: Down syndrome. There is long-standing interpretation that Down’s syndrome can be considered as a serious disease under this provision, even if Down’s syndrome is not a disease. This provision entitles women to abortion after the end of the 12th week of pregnancy on the sole basis of evidence that the foetus has Down’s syndrome. There are several people who have responded to the properties of the foetus, such as: that it has Down syndrome shall be an independent justification for abortion. In particular, people living with this today experience it as very discriminatory that the law considers their lives to be an independent basis for abortion. I find it problematic that the law links abortion access to the traits of an unborn child – traits that several of our fellow citizens share and live a good life with. At the same time, we should not underestimate that some children born with Down syndrome also have additional challenges that can be demanding. This is one of the reasons why I am concerned about stressing that women’s rights should not be weakened and that greater emphasis should be placed on women’s and family’s assessment of their own life situation if they are given responsibility for a child with additional challenges. The representative’s question requires that the paragraph be neutral. I disagree with that, and I refer to my previous answer on the reason for this. The problem with stigmatisation, as the representative asks, is that today's law says that certain characteristics of the foetus provide the basis for abortion. I've used the concept of the downs paragraph in a few contexts to explain why the paragraph is perceived to be discriminatory. I actually understand that someone is responding to this term being used. At the same time, we must have a political debate that is about what we are actually discussing, and where we avoid misconceptions spreading. An example of a misconception was given to us when the representative, Ingvild Kjerkol, claimed on October 22, that it is incorrect information by the Prime Minister to call § 2, third paragraph, point (c) of the downs paragraph, because Down's syndrome by doctors is not considered a serious illness. However, it is certain that Down’s syndrome itself qualifies for abortion, as § 2, third paragraph, point (c) is understood. When the provision is interpreted as it does, I believe that there is a discriminatory element in this, and we should be open to looking at that. As politicians, it is our duty to work for no one to feel less valuable because of qualities they are born with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e961	I am pleased with the last Prime Minister says, but I would also like to point out that Section 2c contains an objective criterion on serious illness, which has been shown to cover thousands of different situations. The use of the term ‘downs paragraph’ comes almost exclusively from the last few weeks, and both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health have contributed to its spread. There are many people who have responded to this, and I would encourage you to listen to these reactions. In the VG, Jan Inge Kvamme, the father of a son with Down syndrome, writes that he believes it is highly misleading to call §2c downs paragraph. Silje Lundberg, who is the sister of Oda, said to the NRK earlier this week: ‘They say in a way that people with downs have their own paragraph, and it’s stigmatizing.’ There are also professionals who point out that it is wrong to use the term. To NRK Troms, the Minister of Health said on Monday: ‘We understand that someone is responding to the use of this term and agree that in difficult ethical debates such as this, all parties should try to use moderate terms.’ Does the Prime Minister think that the expression ‘downs paragraph’ in this context is a moderate expression in an emotional debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e980	As I said in my answer, I think we should be careful with what terms we use. But it must also be allowed to use terms that actually illustrate what the discussion is about, and especially when representatives of the Workers' Party are trying to misjudge what this discussion is about, as Ingvild Kjerkol did in Dagsnytt eighteen on 22 October. Then she said that I was misinformed when I said this, because Down's syndrome of physicians is not considered to be a serious illness. But it is that paragraph, §2c, clearly provides the basis for the detection of Down's syndrome that gives you the right to have an abortion in Norway. This paragraph is about this, and then we have to be honest enough to say that it's there, it's the questions that are perceived to be discriminatory, because they're connected to the core: characteristics of individuals who both grow and live and have good lives in our society, which is then an independent basis for abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e987	I find it interesting that the Prime Minister is indignant that a representative in News Eighteen has used the term ‘misinformation’, but does not show the same idea of self-criticism as the Minister of Health earlier in the week suggested to the NRK. And the Prime Minister also uses the term'sorting society' today. I agree with Højre’s representative Astrid Nøklebye Heiberg, who among other things. at the Court’s national meeting in 2013, it reacted very negatively to that expression. The number of children with Down syndrome born has been stable for the last 15 years. The number of live-born children with Down syndrome has increased by 30 pst. from 1970 until last year, according to Tilde Broch Østborg at the women's clinic at Stavanger University Hospital. Still, this is made a matter of sorting societies and downs paragraphs. This is what I mean -- when you use words like the ‘sorting society’ or the ‘downs’ paragraph -- in practice, it's a very big responsibility to avoid sorting on the individual woman and family. I wonder if the prime minister doesn't think that the right end to start in is to facilitate the relationships for these families, instead of using that kind of expression to legitimize a change in the abortion law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e994	First of all, I said in my post the same thing as the Minister of Health said earlier, that you have to be careful with the use of these terms. At the same time, we must not hide what these discussions are actually about, what are real concrete things, such as. The working party is trying to hide. Clearly, since the 1980s, there has been an independent basis — if you find chromosome abnormalities that make children have Down’s syndrome, it’s an independent basis for abortion. It is also the case that the debate on the sorting society is about communication and what we should know in advance, for example. before the twelfth week. This is a debate that has not only led to discussion about how much ultrasound and how many attempts to take before the twelfth week. It's the same discussion that we had when the Workers' Party agreed that we should not have a gender sorting society that means that parents should not get to know the gender of the children until the twelfth week. Then the Workers' Party fully agreed that we should not have a gender sorting society – then the Workers' Party itself also used the sorting society to justify it. Then I think this is going to be a bit of a selective political discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1004	‘The extraction of cryptocurrency is particularly energy-intensive, provides few jobs and is now benefiting from large subsidies from the government. Following a new American study reported by the Class Battle, the extraction of cryptocurrency will lead to two degrees of global temperature increase by 2033 if it is introduced at the same pace as other technologies. The Tax Directorate has recently proposed a simple and unbureaucratic solution to eliminate subsidies for the extraction of cryptocurrency. Will the Council of State now remove these subsidies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1011	The purpose of a reduced electricity charge to large data centres is to provide attractive access to such activities in Norway, including for international actors. Sweden, Finland and Denmark have similar exemptions, with slightly different demarcation and rates. Although we have so far not got any of the large international data centres here to the country, there have been and are on the way a number of establishments of data centres that are large on a Norwegian scale. Norwegian companies and municipalities are behind many of the data centres, and several of them are planned to be established in the districts. In an opinion issued on 27 June 2018, the Tax Directorate concluded that the power for the extraction of cryptocurrency in a data centre may be entitled to a reduced electricity charge. The Ministry of Finance asked 21 September 2018 The Tax Directorate to determine whether it is possible and appropriate to limit the reduced rate so that the power for the extraction of cryptocurrency must pay the ordinary rate. The Directorate of Taxation's investigation was received by the Ministry of Finance on 31 October this year. The Tax Directorate has come to the conclusion that it is possible to modify the fee so that the power to extract cryptocurrency is not reduced. The ‘solution’ of the Tax Directorate means that all data centres which, to a greater or lesser extent, extract cryptocurrency have to pay full rates for all power consumption in the data centre, i.e. also for force for ‘normal’ storage and processing. In its investigation, the Tax Directorate has not considered alternatives to charging only power consumption for the extraction of cryptocurrency at the normal rate. I would like to assess whether a reduced electricity charge for large data centres, with the exception of cryptocurrency, can be even more targeted, before the government may propose changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1020	I have noticed that the Council of State does not accept what the Tax Directorate has already put on the table – a simple, unbureaucratic solution that says that drives one with cryptocurrency, so there is no right to a reduced electricity charge. This is very energy-intensive production. One company alone, now under construction in Norway, Kryptovault, has both existing and planned capacity of 217 MW. It's equivalent to an annual consumption for Stavanger Municipality, if they use 1.9 TWh. During Siv Jensen, the electricity charge for ordinary people has increased over and over again. People are going to spin and save to reduce energy, while she's holding her protective hand over cryptocurrency extraction, which is wasting energy. Why is it logical that ordinary people pay an electricity charge that is 30 times higher than the one that extracts cryptocurrency in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1025	Let me first remind the representative Gülsvik that the government in its proposal for the 2019 government budget has proposed to reduce the electricity charge. That being said, I have taken the initiative to get the Tax Directorate to make this assessment – if it is possible to distinguish between the general reliefs of data centres and cryptocurrency. And as I said in my previous answer, we are now making further assessments of the answer we have received from the Tax Directorate, before we might decide to do something more.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1030	After all, the Minister of Finance has left behind — by August at the latest — the Minister of Finance answered my questions that it would probably be very difficult to implement and control a mechanism that requires a tax distinction based on the purpose of data capacity specifically linked to the extraction of cryptocurrency. Following repeated challenges, both through the media and through a new written question, the Minister of Finance comes with an order to the Tax Directorate. That's good. The Tax Directorate has now presented a comprehensive solution to how it can be implemented. Why, then, will the Council not follow up on this? In the draft budget presented by the Minister for Finance, it is 30 pst. electricity tax higher than when the Minister of Finance went on. Why does she put her protective hand over those who extract cryptocurrency, instead of reducing the electricity charge for ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1035	I believe it is completely wrong to claim that I have dragged my legs behind me. But let me start by saying that it is wrong for the government and the majority of the population to have reduced electricity charges to facilitate large data centres. So it's crazy politics. As I said in my first answer to the question from the representative, Gülsvik, it is that the Tax Directorate in its investigation has not assessed alternatives to charging only power consumption for the extraction of cryptocurrency. It is a relationship that I am now looking at – whether we can make this more targeted, before we may propose changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1043	This question, from the representative of Mona Fagerås to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, will be raised by the representative of Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1048	‘Parents with children such as have a developmental disability, and which requires a school leisure scheme even after 4th grade, many places have to pay for it, although they obviously need it. They then get a large extra payment that families with disabled children don't get. Does the Council of State think it is fair?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1055	The question addressed here is an important issue: how to facilitate children and families with special needs or challenges. Kindergarten, school and SFO are obviously important to give children and young people a good start. The SFO is an important part of the everyday life of many children and is essential for parents to be in full-time work. However, the SFO is little regulated, both on content and at what price municipalities may charge. Section 13-1 of the Training Act gives the municipality an obligation to provide school leave arrangements for students between 1 and 4. steps and for students with specific 5 to 7 needs. steps. The provision of SFOs for higher annual stages is not regulated. It is up to each municipality to decide whether they want to offer this. Municipalities may require the cost of the school leisure scheme to be covered by the parental benefit. Self-payment is limited to the costs of the municipality. Some municipalities operate at a reduced price for low family income. Some municipalities have free places in the SFO, e.g. from 5th to 7th. steps for children with permanent disability. But this too is up to the municipalities to assess, and there is variation between municipalities. The Health and Welfare Act regulates the responsibilities of municipalities for health and care services. In the request decision No: 906 from 12 June this year, the Government asks the Government to provide an assessment of the extent to which training law or health care law is to cover services such as post-school SFO services, from the 4th year up to and including secondary school. The majority also asks the government to provide a key message on safeguarding the human rights of those with development disabilities. The assessments Stortinget has requested may relate to both content, self-payment and legislation. The government’s platform includes, among other things: that we will put in place schemes with reduced parental pay and free half-day seats in the SFO, similar to the scheme in kindergarten for children of low-income parents. It also states that we will strengthen the quality of the SFO by drawing up a national template for local framework plans, and that we will facilitate cooperation between cultural schools, school leisure schemes and volunteering. We're now following this up. The Ministry of Knowledge will present a paper on early and inclusive communities in the autumn of 2019. The School Leisure Scheme will be a central theme of this paper. The message also aims at the continuation of the request decision No. 65 from 22 November 2016, where the Stortinget asks the Government to carry out a national evaluation of the school leisure scheme and follow it up in the EEAG.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1076	Thank you for the Council of State's response. For children with special needs, the SFO will be of great importance for the type of school day this child has. In a situation of different services in different municipalities, does the Council of State see that an expensive and poorly organised SFO scheme will have an impact on the school day of children with special needs and will be decisive for an equivalent schooling?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1083	I see absolutely that it is relevant, what the representative asks about, and that there are differences between municipalities. But it is also a balancing factor for national politicians to do: how much is national governance to be, and how much room for action is there to be for each municipality to adapt to local needs? As Minister of Knowledge, I am particularly concerned that both kindergartens, schools and SFOs should be inclusive, that we should think about integration, and that we should facilitate children from low-income families. We know that SFO is important in terms of inclusion, and it's important to me that children are not excluded from the SFO because of their parents' finances.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1088	I still thank the Council of State for the answer, but every harvest starts about 65,000 new students in the first stage, and of these, between 1 and 3 pst. particularly high needs. Several people are at risk of losing the necessary assistance much of the school day. From kindergarten, very many people have a full position with assistants, both special pedagogical support and assistants to assist the child. In the SFO, it's not that right. As the State Council itself had in mind, the Stortinget has asked the government to submit a separate report on the school leisure scheme. Will the proposal for national guidelines ensuring equivalence in the form of parental and special educational support and assistant rights be relevant for the Council of State to promote in this respect?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1095	It is not common to pre-shoot a groceries message almost a year before it is due, but I can assure the representative that these are issues we are very concerned about. The question of personal assistance is regulated and is a responsibility that lies with the Ministry of Health and Health, and there are questions that the Minister of Health and I want to look at together. We have to make sure that SFO is inclusive, that we focus on inclusion, and that we include children from low-income families. So the question is how far to go in regulating this and having national requirements. Then it may be that the party of the representative and my party disagree a little. I believe that there must be a large room for action for the municipalities, but we also need to point a clear direction, so that the municipalities see that this is an area where inclusion needs to be thought of and also quality in content.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1105	‘In NTP, the Stortinget concluded that InterCity would be expanded with double tracks to Lillehammer by 2034. Later, the Railway Directorate pushed this into the blue with its action programme. In this year's government budget, there was no further planning for Lillehammer either. What is the government's plan for expanding and planning further north from Hamar?"
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1112	In NTP 2018-2029, the government described how the railway will be further developed in the coming twelve-year period. In NTP, it is not configured to complete the external intercity during the first scheduled period. However, for the railway sector, it is set at 200 million. kr for level clearance and better destruction of the railway in connection with the construction of new E6 in the first period. The distance is prioritised with construction start in the second part of NTP. Efforts are still being made to achieve the objectives of the National Transport Plan for the sections north of Hamar. The 2019 laureate proposal will not affect the possibility of completion of external intercity in line with the ambitions of the national transport plan. The implementation of the project will have to be assessed in conjunction with other priorities in the annual budgetary processes. As of today, there is nothing to suggest that the completion of the external intercity of the Dovrebahn to Lillehammer is postponed beyond what is underlying in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1119	Thank you very much. That's good to hear. The route between Hamar and Lillehammer is the route in the country with the worst capacity. It affects both regularity and affordability for passenger trains and freight trains. In addition, the Ministry of Transport has asked the Railway Directorate to investigate two hours of frequency on the Oslo-Trondheim route, which can also be followed here. The proposed action programme adopted by the Directorate-General for Railways includes, inter alia: the following concerning intercity and Dovrebanen: The Venjar-Eidsvoll-Langset section has started construction in 2018 and is planned to be completed in 2023. The section Cleverud-Sørli-Akersvika shall be completed by 2026. The Akersvika–Brumunddal route has been implemented with planning funds for the first six-year period and 140 million have been added. kr on the Brumunddal-Moelv section to prepare double-track construction at the same time as the construction of a new E6. Why, according to what the Council of State says, have we not just implemented what is already in the action programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1130	It is possible that this was the last time that the Central Party was in government, that there was an extraordinary act that led the department. In our period of government, it is the department that governs the underlying enterprise. That means that we give priority to the money first to get active deployment of intercity, in line with the plans that are made. It does, for example: that in the budget proposal for 2019, we use significant resources to improve capacity on the Vestfold track. The surest way to make sure that we reach the objectives we have in the national transport plan of a fully developed external intercity is to keep pace with the realisation of the projects. We do that under this government. In the budget proposal for 2019, we are increasing the investment on the railway by almost 9 pst. It is thanks to considerable efforts on concrete projects and for optimal progress and rational implementation that we are able to build up intercity in line with the plans we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1135	I expected an answer that was somewhat similar to the one the Council of State now gave, but according to the draft budget, it is planned for the completion of double tracks for Hamar, Åkersvika, in 2026, not in 2024, as previously foreseen. Even in 2019, the planned Parselle Kleverud–Sørli is not started, but says that the whole Parselle Kleverud–Sørli–Åkersvika, i.e. Hamar, should be seen in a context. Someone wants to think of this as postponing the project. The size decided, in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan, the development of intercity, which we have talked about. And what I have received feedback about is that Bane NOR, among other things. says if they're going to be able to get it done by 2034, planning has to start now. Politicians in Uppland – in and of themselves myself – believe that this is a little worrying. My question is: will the Council of State contribute to Bane NOR being given funds by the Directorate of Railways to start the necessary planning for the Brumunddal-Moelv route to prepare double-track construction at the same time as the construction of a new E6? The action programme shall establish the freight terminal at Rudhögda. Does the Council agree that this should be planned at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1144	It is very good that the Centre Party is now beginning to promote a coherent and holistic development of infrastructure. There are new notes from the Center Party. They've never practiced it when they've run, but I'm very happy that it's now the signal. That's what we're going to take with us in the work we're going to do. We are planning the no intercity implementation and have today confirmed that the plan progress we have, the money that is in the national transport plan, and insofar as the underlying material as underlying works on our own refrigerated cages, and which is also not approved by the department, is a contribution to the completion of the intercity development by the deadline of 2034, as Stortinget stated. What I mean is the answer to the question asked by the representative, Mr Fasterøne. How do we get there? We're going to do that as whole as possible. That means we're going to plan in line with what's needed for the planning pace, to realize at the time we're going to. I'll take care of that in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1153	We're moving on to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1161	This question, from the representative of Mr Knag Fylkesnes to the Minister for Health, will be raised by the representative of Mr Solfrid Lerbreck.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1166	‘The Minister of State has opened up to weaken the abortion law and, although there is no concrete proposal on the table, there have been a number of indications of content. One of the weaknesses of the law on abortion that has been introduced is that only foetuses that ‘are not viable’ are subject to the law on abortion. From a professional point of view, there is a great deal of disagreement about how it should be defined. How does the Council of State define ‘non-viable’ about foetuses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1173	I would like to stress that the government does not have any work to do on changing today's abortion law, and also refer to the premises for the answers to these questions that the Prime Minister repeated for several rounds earlier in this Questionnaire. The same premises also apply to my answers in the rest of the questions that come up on this topic. In the political debate that has taken place between the parties over the past few weeks, the Prime Minister, as Højres leader, has opened up to negotiate two areas of the abortion law in possible government negotiations with the Christian People's Party: foetal reduction and what is perceived as a discriminatory element in Section 2c. The last time we had a public debate on §2c, the Workers' Party made a serious claim that the Right would force women to give birth to children without a brain. Therefore, it has been important for me to be clear that no one should be forced to bring forth children who are not viable. However, this will not be the only criterion that provides the basis for abortion after the 12th week. Not least, the Right considers that in cases where changes are to be made, the woman’s own assessment must be given more weight. This will mean that, in practice, women seeking abortion after the 12th week will be granted as much as is currently the case in the future, in sum – as also emerged from Erna Solberg in the debate on 1 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1182	Thank you for your supplementary reply, but I also wonder how the Council of State sees that any new and more stringent decision-making process can take place, and whether it can be a bit more tiring than if Mother takes the decision itself to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1187	I understand that the representative's question concerns the abortion law § 2c, about abortion after the limit of self-determined abortion. Even after today's abortion law, the woman herself makes the kind of decisions, there are decisions that are also being taken today. What we will then be discussing is what criteria should be used for consideration. The right has said very clearly, as a clear premise, that if we are to be able to participate in changes in order to remove what is now perceived as the discriminatory part of Section 2c, it will at the same time have to strengthen the criteria for emphasising the woman's assessment of her own situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1192	Then we should have gone over to the next question, but the president can't see that Freddy André practice is in the hall, so then we wait a little while and take question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1200	‘The Ministry of Health and Welfare approved in 2017 for pregnant women who have an increased risk of developing children with severe hereditary disease or developmental abnormalities, Non-Invasive Prenatal Testing for the detection of trisomi 13, 18 and 21. [[NIPT]] Both the Health Directorate and the Biotechnology Council have recommended the test. Safe testing early in women at high risk of chromosome error is important to prevent any abortion late in pregnancy. When will Norwegian women be able to have safer testing through NIPT as promised by the Council of State in 2017?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1207	It is true that the NIPT test has been approved by the Ministry of Health and Welfare as a secondary test for the detection of chromosome abnormalities in the foetus. An important consideration behind the Norwegian guidelines on foetal diagnostics is to protect against the sorting society. I think it's important to make sure that we have a society where there's room for everyone. The conditions set for the use of NIPT will build up in this respect. The purpose of the introduction of the NIPT is justified on the grounds that it avoids unnecessary samples of foetal water or cake. These tests lead to a risk of spontaneous abortion. By using NIPT, we reduce the need for such tests and thus the risk of spontaneous abortion. It is important that the NIPT offer is of high quality, and health regions have carried out extensive work on an international acquisition under the auspices of Hospital Purchases. Health regions have informed that the supplier has been selected and information on the offer has been prepared. The practical part of ensuring the consignment of samples and the details of the logistics of the consignment of samples has recently been tested. After the information I have received, there is reason to believe that NIPT as part of the supply of foetal diagnostics – in order to reduce unnecessary use of foetal water samples and morcine samples – can be in place by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1222	This is happy news, but when we look at our neighboring country, it should have been strictly in place much faster. Today, women with the right to offer the NIPT must first pass the unprecise KUB test. KUB and NIPT are meant to reveal the exact same thing. When the delay that KUB represents does not give any additional health benefits, I do not see any intention to continue offering it. It also meant the majority in Stortinget when we considered the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. Weeks and days are crucial when you are pregnant, and time is important to avoid experiencing the stress with a latent. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to carry out the KUB test before being offered the NIPT?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1229	Yes, I would like to refer to my answer where the government's reason for introducing the NIPT is very clearly linked to the purpose of reducing the need for unnecessary foetal water samples and morcine samples that increase the risk of spontaneous abortion. The purpose is not e.g. finding as many children or foetuses as possible with chromosome abnormalities; the representative’s input to this will fundamentally change the purpose. Nor is it correct, as the representative says, that the KUB test has no value in itself. The KUB test reveals more than trisomia, e.g. major malformations such as non-brained foetuses, how far the pregnancy has come, or conditions requiring special follow-up during pregnancy, e.g. twins of common morcoa. The NIPT test can only reveal trisomia, so the KUB test has an independent medical justification.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1236	I still don't see the intention of letting time go and let them wait. Nevertheless, women could have had this opportunity before. Today, pregnant women travel to both Denmark and Sweden to get this offer that the Council of State has promised to put in place earlier this year. I wonder what the Council of State now wants to do to get this in place as quickly as possible. He says this should be in place by the end of the year, he has said earlier that it should be in place a lot earlier. Do we now have the opportunity to accept the answer, that this will take place within a few weeks, or is it that the Council of State will perhaps be able to cover the extra bill it would have to bring with it to Sweden and Denmark in order to benefit from the offer they have there?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1241	I must admit that I do not know that I have promised that this would come earlier. I think we've shown the process that's in the health regions, it's those who are responsible for the acquisition of this type of test. What I have done is to approve the use of the test, but then with the clear aim that the purpose of introducing this test in Norway is to reduce the need for unnecessary morcoa and foetal water samples that increase the risk of spontaneous abortion. Women who are currently entitled to foetal diagnostics are granted the right through the tests available today, and in those cases, the alternative to the NIPT test will be morcary and foetal water diagnostics.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1248	We go back to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1257	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State Bent Höie: ‘The Minister of State has opened up to weaken the abortion law. In several interviews, the Health Minister has compared skews and people with Down’s syndrome to support his conservative view of women’s right to self-determined abortion, with the background of a hypothetical ‘homogene’. Does the Council of State think that being a homofil gives him the opportunity to understand what it is like to have Down's syndrome, and does he think there are comparable groups and an argument to restrict women's right to self-determination in the abortion issue?»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1266	Discrimination has always been defended by drawing out one characteristic of a human being or of groups of people. One simple property is used to define some of the majority's rights and laws, define people to no longer have universal human rights or eggs for mob hatred. A single property is used to reduce or eliminate human dignity. This is universal. The property can be sex, skin color, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability or an extra chromosome. It is not always that the contemporary has understood that the minority has been discriminated against. When Rosa Parks refused to get up and give away the seat on bus number. 2857, it wasn't because she was tired of her legs, or that she didn't get home by bus. She was tired of being treated as a second-rate citizen. When many of us fought for common marriage law, it wasn't because the partnership law didn't have the same legal rights. It was because our obligating love life was changed by being regulated in a separate law. The fact that we loved one of the same sex was the trait that justified that we had to have our own law. That's why I understand that people with an extra chromosome experience it as discriminatory that we have a law that means that this property itself provides the basis for abortion after the limit of self-determined abortion. I expressed a common experience in having experienced how laws can discriminate from a single characteristic of us as human beings. Experience has shown that there is a line between the civil rights struggle in the United States, the equality struggle, the fight for gay and lesbian rights and the fight against discrimination by disabled people and for a universally designed society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1279	As a skewer, I reacted very much to the fact that the Minister of Health is using skews as a group in this debate. I fully agree with many of the fine words that the Minister of Health brings with him now, but the Mortgage Act § 2c states the following as the basis for abortion after 12 weeks: ‘a major risk of serious illness to the child as a result of heritable facilities, disease or harmful effects during pregnancy’. Does the Council of State think that being a homofil can be understood as a serious disease, as a result of heritable facilities, illness or harmful effects during pregnancy? If not, for I expect him not to: how then is homophili relevant to this debate on this paragraph?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1289	I answered that in the previous question. Of course, I've never done that kind of comparison, it's going to be completely absurd to say. This is about experiencing discrimination, and I have responded to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1294	Nevertheless, we end up in a situation where the Minister of Health compares homophilia and having Down's syndrome. Down’s syndrome is defined by the health authorities as a developmental impairment due to a genetic defect. I expect the Council of State does not believe that homophilia is a developmental disorder or a gene defect, but if no, as I hope and believe he will answer: how does the Council of State think that we as a homosexual can understand what it is like to have Down's syndrome, as an experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1299	I recommend the representative of the Supreme Court to wait for the minutes of the Questionnaire and read my answer to the question again, because it is exactly the same question, and I have answered that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1304	We go to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1312	‘Today, municipalities have an obligation to provide immediate help for the lucky day, so-called ØHD beds. Hospital budgets have taken money to finance the places. It turns out that the beds have low coatings, and that doctors do not add enough patients under this scheme. Will the Council of State review resource use, capacity, quality, staffing and the need for change, so that the health resource is used in the best possible way for the patient’s best?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1319	Fortunately, we see that the use of these beds goes up. I think that's a pleasure. The representative Toppe has a very clear and good point that when the previous government carried out the interaction reform, these beds were financed by withdrawing money from the hospitals. We had in the first few years a very low coating on these beds. There is reason to believe that it also created challenges for hospitals. However, I feel that the use is now increasing. I think that's positive. I think it's right that we have an immediate 24-hour offer in the municipalities for patients who need to have greater security around them, and who at the same time will be a pretty heavy burden to be sent to the hospital. We are now working on a new health and hospital plan. In this work, we also look at how we will achieve even greater cooperation between municipalities and hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1328	This has been a problem. When I'm around the country visiting municipalities, there are a lot of people who also report that there may be problems in getting kids to work in such places because there is no counting in a specialist education. Can the Council of States do any good to see if there are any changes that make it even easier to recruit the right competences for these places? Is it possible that in some places there may also be a combination of places for those who are pre-printed? This is primarily about an option to install.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1335	To the first question, we have done a lot of work, which I have also replied to the representative in the past, to see how we can expand the practice that is in the municipalities, in the various municipal services, and make the countable. I can't get on the stand just to answer the specific question, but I can possibly come back to that. I'm well aware, as far as the second question is concerned, that there is a certain variation in the municipalities. Some municipalities also use these places for patients who have come out of the hospital. I think it's wise that that assessment is done locally, in the municipality. In most cases, it will be best for the patient to come home when you have been to a hospital, but it is a medical assessment. I feel that municipalities are already doing this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1342	One has also expanded these services to include drug and psychiatry patients. I have asked the Minister of Health about this before, how the competence of that group should be maintained. It shall be done with the same professionals as in the established supply. I have also received feedback from places where this has been introduced that it does not work as well as in any case the Minister of Health has provided answers to me earlier – that there may be a problem that these patients must be in the same supply. It has to do with manning, and it has to do with the competence of those who demand the offer. I don't know the whole truth about this, but I have a concern that the supply of those with drug and psychiatry problems is not good enough in the supply that exists today. Will the Minister of Health consider how this works?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1349	Now this becomes a little bit like what the representative Toppe and I hear when-we're-out-and-travel-facts. That's not exactly science. When I'm traveling, I get a bit of the opposite message, which is that many people think it's been surprisingly good. Many who were skeptical have become more positive. I think the truth is both. In this area, as in most other areas, I think we will experience that there is variation between municipalities. From our point of view, we build up municipal competences in the areas of drugs and mental health, which we do with the involvement of psychologists and on the escalation plan in the field of drugs, but it is the responsibility of the individual municipality to ensure that there is sufficient competence in these areas of this offer. I'm probably there that I'm still very determined that it would be wrong to say that this offer should not apply to these patient groups, because many patients have complex disorders. Being excluded because you have a mental illness or drug addiction, I think it's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1358	The President could perhaps recommend that the representative and the Council of State should travel more often!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1366	‘A change in the abortion law, which eliminates serious disease in the foetus as an independent basis in point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 2 of the abortion Act, could contribute to health care inequalities. This is because women who can afford it can have abortion carried out abroad, while women who cannot afford it instead will have to be mentioned and argue their case, in an already very difficult situation. Does the Council of State see that a change in the third paragraph of Section 2 (c) of the Mortgage Act can contribute to social inequality in this field?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1373	I would like to stress that the government does not have a job in changing today's abortion law, and refers to the premise that the Prime Minister initially drew up for both his and my answers in this questionnaire on these questions. I don't have to repeat them. I do not accept the representative's premise that any changes to the abortion law §2c will involve increased social inequality. §2c is today experienced by many as a discriminating part of the abortion law, because it gives an unconditional right to abortion if the foetus, for example. has Down's syndrome. Removing § 2c is not Right Policy, although we have different opinions about this in the party. On the other hand, we are open to negotiate on this topic, but under some clear assumptions. I believe it is possible through negotiations to find solutions that remove the discriminatory element of the law. Absorbent subjects need to pay more attention to women's assessment of their own life situation if they are given responsibility for a child with additional challenges, and of course women should be allowed to have abortions in cases where the foetus has a condition incompatible with life. Therefore, in sum, as Erna Solberg said in the debate on 1 November, this means that, in practice, women seeking abortion after 12 weeks, as much as they do today, will be allowed to do after these possible changes, as long as the premises of the Right are taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1384	There is no doubt that these are difficult questions. Of course, it should not be that just because something is allowed abroad, it should be allowed in Norway. However, taking away a neutral and objective criterion in Section 2c and replacing it with an estimation-based assessment of the situation of women, there is a risk that women with more resources will choose to go abroad, while women with less resources have to expand their life situation in a name and to a significantly greater extent than today have been given the judgements of the members of the denominator. To Fädrelandsvennen 6 November, the central board member of Right Janne Fardal Kristoffersen says that she does not mean anything glamorous about §2c, but says: ‘But we make changes to the law, we risk women moving abroad late, which we do not want.’ Is it so, when the Council of State says that he does not accept the presumption of increased inequality, that he disagrees with his own central government member at this point, that one risks that more of the women who have the resources for it will end up travelling abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1396	Her premiss was that there were restrictions that made it more difficult for women to have abortions in Norway as a result of any changes to Section 2c. In my first answer, I have explained what is Right Premise in order to enter into negotiations on this. Thus, I believe that neither social inequality nor the need to travel abroad will be relevant, if the outcome of the negotiations becomes what Right has also set as a premise to be able to participate in changes that mean that one removes what many experience as the discriminating part of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1401	Interestingly, the Council of State Höie believes that her premise is not correct. If you, for example, read VG 5 November, was a headline: ‘Høie wants fewer abortions.’ It may not be so strange that there has been a big discussion in this matter, and my closing question is therefore: does the Council regret any of what he has said during the abortion debate that has gone on in the last month?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1411	That heading is linked to a quotation further down in the case where I am just clear that I want fewer abortions in Norway, but that this should not be done by tightening up the abortion law, but by implementing other measures. That is the basis for that heading. So I think it's an advantage if those who participate in this debate, including the representative, read the whole case and do not base their questions or views on the title of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1419	‘The Council of State has drawn a comparison in several media between discrimination against homosexuals and those who are colored and today’s abortion laws. Why does the Council of State consider ‘serious disease, due to heritable facilities, disease or harmful effects during pregnancy’ to be comparable to homophilia?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1426	In this question, the representative draws a cartoon of what I've said in the media. Of course, I have never thought that ‘serious illness, due to facilities, illness or harmful effects during pregnancy’ is comparable to homophilia. The representative not only draws a cartoon of what I have said, she also chooses to move into the cartoon and lead the debate from there. As I replied to the representative Freddy André Supreme Court, discrimination has always been defended by drawing out one characteristic of a human being or of a group of people. One simple property is used to define some of the majority's rights and laws, from having universal human rights or to ingesting into the mob's hatred. One simple property is used to reduce or eliminate human dignity. This is universal. The property can be sex, skin color, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability or an extra chromosome. It is not always that the contemporary has understood that the minority has been discriminated against. When Rosa Parks refused to get up from his seat on bus number. 2857, it wasn't because she was tired of her legs, or that she didn't get home by bus. She was tired of being treated as a second-rate citizen. When many of us, including the representative, lost a joint marriage law, it was not because the partnership law did not have the same legal rights. It was because our obligating love life was changed by the fact that it was regulated in a separate law. The fact that we love one of the same sex was the trait that justified that we had to have our own law. That's why I understand that people with an extra chromosome experience it as discriminatory that we have a law that means that this property itself provides the basis for abortion after the limit of self-determined abortion. I simply expressed a common experience in having experienced how laws can discriminate from a simple trait. It's this experience that makes me think there's a line between the civil rights struggle in the United States, the equality struggle, the fight for gay and lesbian rights and the fight against discrimination of disabled people and for a universally designed society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1439	It is, if I may say so, typical that members of this government believe that it is the people who have misunderstood when people react to statements and to politics. But it's actually so that very many homosexuals have experienced the comparison of homophilic and serious disease as debilitating, when we, to be completely honest, thought that the debate was over a long time ago. We've been fighting for years to get rid of homophilia as a diagnosis. It's not like this either, as the Council of State has said, that we gay people basically know something about what it's like to live with Down's syndrome. On the contrary, when the Council of State makes this comparison the way he has done, he achieves the opposite of what he now says was meant to be. He makes more stigma, he doesn't stop it. And if the aim of the debate by Höie's side is to remove stigmatisation of people with Down's syndrome, why does the Council of State, the Prime Minister and the Government of Down pull the syndrome into the debate by calling §2c for the downs paragraph, when it's not mentioned in the paragraph at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1446	What's the understanding of the paragraph, there's no doubt about it, and it's just to refer to former Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støres' very clear answer to that question of former representative Holten Hämdal in Stortinget. There is no doubt that in § 2c today downs will be an independent basis for abortion. Creating an understanding that something is perceived as discriminatory is sometimes demanding. Then I also think that many of us who belong to a minority, should actually stand up several times and show understanding to other groups, simply because our fight, gay and lesbian rights in Norway, is a fight that has worked on a lot of fronts. There is a struggle that has also gradually gained very broad support in the population, and I think it is therefore right to use that kind of comparison to get the point of discrimination, which is the core here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1453	I think we can all understand that people with mental retardation can experience the abortion debate as difficult. But what the state council does with its comparison is to make it even more difficult. He turns the debate upside down and shocks a lot of people. If the Council of State really thought that more people would have to let go of stigmatisation, this is the wrong way to go. In addition, pregnant women are not in a difficult and vulnerable situation to take responsibility for our society's inadequacy or make groups feel stigmatised. It's a social responsibility. Does the Council of State really believe that curtailing the abortion law is the solution to building a society with space for more people?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1458	First of all, I do not accept that the representative of Trettebergstien is looking at my experiences and my assessments relating to the experience of discrimination and saying that there is something we do not want to bring forward in the debate. On the contrary, I am going to use this comparison in future debates on discrimination. Only the representative must be prepared for this, because I believe that all of us who have experienced discrimination have a joint responsibility to stand up for others who experience the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1466	‘The Council of State answers in questions to written reply No. 168 that there will be ‘space for an activity growth of about 1.7 per cent’ in the hospitals for 2019, with priority for mental health and the drug field. [[2018-2019]] The government has told healthcare companies that mental health services should be out-of-date and easily accessible with cooperation in municipal arenas and where users are located. When the Inland Hospital now changes its treatment provision, how well should the consequences be investigated first, and how do the services become more out of reach and easily accessible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1473	As regards the specific case of the Hospital Inland, Health South-East has informed that they are following a desired and professional development towards more outpatient and outpatient treatment. This includes, inter alia: that they will set up an interaction team with municipalities in order to improve the coherence of service provision — and thus less distance between healthcare provision in municipalities and hospitals. Health South-East further indicates that they will reduce the elective daily hospitalisations, i.e. the scheduled daily hospitalisations, in district psychiatric centres. This is a proper professional development and in line with the practice of other health businesses in Health South-East. Today, the Hospital of the Inland DPS operates daily at seven different locations. The spread of diurnal activity in many centres leads to very vulnerable operations — in some places only one specialist carries the entire daily supply. Regional health establishments are responsible for planning and operating this healthcare and are responsible for implementing national health policies in their region. Conversion of specialised health services relating to municipalities shall not be carried out until the municipalities are able to handle e.g.: new tasks. It is a prerequisite that the switchover provides users with a continuous and equally good service offer as – or better than – before the change. This implies that health businesses must have dialogue with municipalities as part of the planning process before taking decisions. Municipalities and health regions are required by law to conclude cooperation agreements on the division of tasks and responsibilities between the municipality and the health business. Patient and user organisations shall be involved in the work. The aim of the agreements is to establish good cooperation practices in key areas of interaction and to help patients and users receive comprehensive provision of health and care services. Health South-East RHF believes that the Hospital Inland is following a desired and professional development that will provide even better health services to the inhabitants of Uppland. I assume that Health South-East and the Hospital Inland relate to the leaders I have explained, and that it is added to processes that ensure the cooperation with the user organisations and the municipalities in the possible changes that we are going to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1486	It is not based on the ambitions of either government or business, but it is therefore proposed that major changes be made almost overnight. What is professionally sound is little talked about among the departments concerned. In fact, health enterprises face major economic challenges, the ‘golden rule’ is not being met, growth is no larger in the psychiatry than in the somatic, DPS and BUPs are being reduced, and referrals are being rejected. The professionals in the positions are now at risk of losing their jobs or going around demanding cuts for a long time to come. 1250 out of a few thousand jobs are now to be taken away in the Inland Hospital. It's dramatic. Does the Council of State believe that the professionals and trade unions are properly protected and heard when these changes are made and that the Norwegian tripartite model is well enforced in enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1493	Firstly, with regard to the issue of professional soundness, I assume that all and all changes made to our health care companies must, of course, satisfy the requirement of professional soundness. If an offer is not professionally sound, it shall be closed. It is not acceptable, and if someone feels that there is an offer that is not professionally sound, they also have an obligation to report to the County Doctor and to the Health Authority. As for the discussion on how our offers will develop, I naturally assume that both the Hospital Inland and Health South-East relate to the agreement and the legislation we have for cooperation with the trustees. In addition, healthcare also has requirements for the involvement of municipalities, the involvement of users and patient organisations in such discussions. It doesn't mean that someone always agrees, it would be very surprising, but everyone should be heard. And it is clear that the basis for any changes shall be the national leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1502	I almost feel that the Council of State does not have the ability to address the problem of enterprises and the professionals locally. There is no lack of soundness in the offers that exist, but there is just a lack of soundness when the offers are made. Government ambitions do not keep pace with grants as expenditure increases. More and more people now stand out in the localities around Oppland and Hedmark with strong stories of how vital treatment has been given to them, among other things. DPS and BUP have been. The consequences of cutting people's health – and at worst life and death – will be too little talked about. How does the Council of State think we should be able to maintain a good offer in the specialist health service throughout the country, also decentralised? What does the council have to say to Ida and Lars, or to Anne Kirsti, who was rescued by the BUP on Gjøvik, to Live, who share the experience of the BUP on Lillehammer, or to Elin Anita, who can now celebrate life thanks to the DPS in Aurdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1507	For the specific offers addressed by the representative, e.g.: The BUP at Gjøvik, as it became known before the weekend, is not about to drop that offer. This is a work on which there is a process, and that means that no conclusions have been drawn. With regard to what I experience lies as an underlying premise for the representative, namely that this is about hospitals getting too little money, I have to show that we have arranged for a higher growth in patient treatment during this government, on average, than that which was during the previous eight years. It has, among other things, This has led to a significant decrease in waiting times for more patients, not least in the area of drug and mental health, and a record investment in our hospitals in both construction and equipment. But I am fully aware that the Hospital Inland has major financial challenges, which they are now working to solve, and it is a responsibility that they have to solve together with Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1519	‘The Minister of State writes on 8 November that she wants ‘changes in the abortion law so that we do not allow foetal reduction of healthy foetuses’. This means that she goes against the interpretation of law as the government did in 2016, and as the Health Minister defended in an post in the Evening Post on 26 October 2016, where he writes that foetal reduction is not sorting, but self-determined abortion. How can the Council of States explain that the Right now wants a tightening of the abortion law that he has in his own words defined as an attack on the right to self-determination?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1526	First, I have to refer again to the premises that the Prime Minister gave for answers to these kinds of questions in this Questionnaire. When I became the State Council in the Ministry of Health and Welfare, there were several unanswered and difficult questions waiting for me. One of them was whether the right to self-determined abortion applies when the woman is pregnant with several healthy fetuses and does not want to keep everyone. Hospitals were uncertain about how to deal with this. In 2010, the Health Directorate had asked the Ministry to clarify how the law was to be understood. The matter remained in the hands of the previous government for several years. I asked the Department of Justice to evaluate the question. The answer I received was that self-determined abortion means that within the 12th week the woman has the right to decide how many fetuses she will carry out. If she wants abortion after the twelfth week, she must apply for an abortion subject in the latent. As the representative Myrseth is aware, it is the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice that is our foremost body to interpret the law in cases where such cases are not judged by the courts. On 9 September 2016, I replied to the Storting Health and Care Committee as follows: ‘As stated in this statement, the Ministry of Health and Welfare or the Government of Solberg have not made any changes to guidelines or regulations that lead to an opening for foetal reduction within the limits of self-determined abortion. This is a purely legal interpretation carried out by the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice after the need to clarify the issue was legally promoted from the healthcare sector as early as 2010. The government does not intend to propose changes to the abortion law and restrictions on self-determined abortion rules. If representatives of Stortinget wish to propose such a legislative amendment, they may request legal assistance for such a proposal in the usual manner.» No party requested such legal assistance. Afterwards, many, including from the medical profession, have stated that the reduction of births of twins is a difficult ethical issue. I think so too – and I have always been open about that. But as long as the abortion law has not changed, my opinion is that then, of course, the law applies. That means that within the limits of self-determined abortion, the woman herself is to make the decision. However, I am willing to assess in more detail whether the abortion law should be amended so that foetal reduction of healthy twins is no longer permitted, but as I said, there is a question in the forthcoming government negotiations. The government now has no work in progress in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1554	I thank you for your answer. It is also known that there is a ban on foetal reduction. leads to more abortions, you could have to take both of the fetuses instead of just one. State Council Höie has, among other things: stated that a solution whereby women have to face a choice between both children or none is an unsustainable situation. Based on what the Minister of Health now says, that one is willing to make new assessments of this, it would be interesting to hear if he is now going back on it – that the situation is not so unsustainable anyway. But I'd rather ask if the Council of State thinks there's a greater or lesser risk of losing both fetuses if you're forced to have an abortion before the twelfth week.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1563	Of course, no one will be forced to have an abortion before the twelfth week. Of course, before the 12th week, this is the only woman's own decision. The question is whether a discussion should be held in Norway as well as whether it should be possible to choose between abortions, for example. two healthy foetuses before the limit of self-determined abortion. As the representative is probably aware, in most of the countries around us, it is not legal, but it has led to major discussions that these countries do not have, for the most part, e.g.: self-determined abortion, as in Denmark. So I think that's reason to go into this discussion with maybe a little bit more shades. I believe that there are arguments on both sides in this case. The arguments put forward in favour of today's law have also been put forward by the representative. I believe that there are also arguments to make changes to this, which have been made in our neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1570	I record that then we must be able to assume that the Council of State is willing to consider tightening up the law that we have today, and tightening up the woman's right to decide over her own body when it comes to abortion before the twelfth week. But on the basis of the questions that have now been asked, I wonder if the Minister of Health is willing in any way – while he is sitting as Minister of Health in this government – to contribute to making restrictions on today's abortion law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1575	The government that I am currently in, with the government basis we have in the Jeløya platform, does not provide the basis for changes in the abortion law. Then the representative is well aware that we might be going into new government negotiations with a new party. In this context, the Right has opened up to be able to negotiate these two themes. I feel that with regard to the question of what in the media is referred to as twinning away, foetal reduction, there are very many who respond to the outcome of the interpretation of the law that the Ministry of Justice came up with. Not least from the professional community itself, which is set to carry out this task, there has been a desire for the political environment to clean up this. I think it's worth listening to those arguments as well. And we've said from the right-hand side that we're open to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1587	Today, the questionnaire has been a lot about abortion, but it's also about fetal medicine and that this can often be about very happy events. I myself received twins in 2014 and am very happy that I received early ultrasound in that context, so that we could assess how risky the pregnancy was. For my own part, there were a few months in which this was to go well. Twins who share morcoma have a very high risk of both suffering and death by one twin taking all the industry and the other not getting anything. My question to the Council of State is therefore: ‘Does the Council agree that early ultrasound can help reduce suffering and death by detecting and curing twin transfusion syndrome, affecting more than 40 twins per year?’ Now I have found other numbers that suggest that it might be 30, but the problem is in any case equally relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1598	This is a question where I don't have to take the same reservations as in the other questions. Twin transfusion syndrome is a condition that can occur in twin pregnancies in which one-sided twins share morcoma. This is a rare but serious pregnancy complication. It may require highly specialised treatment which is not available in Norway. In 2017, eleven twins received this treatment abroad. According to a 2012 report from the Health Care Centre, early ultrasound detects most pregnancies in which there are twins with common morcoma. These can then be followed up more closely than other pregnancies in order to avoid complications. However, twin transfusion symptoms rarely occur before the regular ultrasound examination, conducted around week 18. The Knowledge Centre concluded in 2012 that they did not find evidence of the health benefit of routine early ultrasound. The Norwegian gynecological association concluded in May 2013 that early ultrasound has very limited medical benefit. There are several ethical reasons why the government in its political platform says that we will not introduce a public offer of early ultrasound. Routine early ultrasound is not closely related to the aim of the Biotechnology Act to exploit biotechnology for the benefit of people in a society where there is ‘space for all’. However, early detection of twins of common morcoa has been presented as a medical argument for early ultrasound. This has been assessed in the 2012 Knowledge Centre report, which states: ‘However, we did not find any studies confirming a direct link between an early ultrasonic offer and the outcome of twin pregnancy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1616	Now, perhaps this representative and the Council of State on some of the same trips, as was called for in the past, but the feedback we have received from the professional community, is that it is important to discover it early, precisely because the treatment that the woman is being sent abroad must be done before week 18, and it is more difficult to do so at such a late point in pregnancy. So I'm kind of wondering about that. Then I'm really just going to ask the council if he wants to be with me and make sure that it's actually so, that it's only after week 18 that we should give this treatment to women that we have to send abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1621	What I said in my answer, however, is that the symptoms of twin transfusion rarely occur before the regular ultrasound examination takes place around week 18. These included: the background to the Knowledge Centre’s conclusion that they did not find a health benefit from routine ultrasound. There are many different issues to be considered against each other before finally reaching such a conclusion, but I experience that, among other things, when. The working party has argued strongly for routine early ultrasound, in addition to the normal one in week 18, it is with the background to this question. As I said, the conclusions of the Knowledge Centre are that there is no basis for this – although in such cases there will of course always be arguments that speak for, and arguments that speak against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1626	Then it became a little clearer for me. Because the symptoms may not occur until week 18, the risk that this may be too late is that one twin then steals nourishment from the other. The whole point of the early ultrasound is that you should be able to detect this early and send the women for proper treatment. As I understand it, this is a treatment that should happen between week 12 and week 18 in order for it to work as well as possible. After I understand, these women are mainly sent to Germany because it is such a specialised field that we do not do it in Norway. If it is that the best treatment actually happens before week 18, does the Minister of Health agree that early ultrasound would have been positive?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1633	After all, it is these issues that have been assessed by the Knowledge Centre that have come to the conclusion that I presented. In addition to these elements, of course, there is also the discussion of the aims of the Biotechnology Act and the consequences of routine early ultrasound, for example. related to the question of the sorting society. From my point of view, it is very clear, both from the purely professional assessments that the Knowledge Centre has concluded, and from political-ethical considerations, that it is not appropriate to introduce routine early ultrasound as a public offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1641	My question concerns § 2c and the uncertainty spread by the Prime Minister about it: ‘Why does the Council of State consider that a foreigner is better equipped to decide a woman’s fate than herself and a medical assessment, and in what cases does the opinion of the Council of State consider that the woman’s desire and/or medical evaluation may be overruled?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1648	I had initially intended to answer this question without referring to the reservations made by the Prime Minister, for the written question that has been submitted, does not deal with § 2c, but my view of the subjects dealing with abortion requests. That's something we have today. The abortion law balances two important considerations: the consideration of women's right to self-determination and the legal protection of the foetus. Therefore, the legal protection of the foetus increases with the length of pregnancy, and the right of the woman to determine is reduced accordingly. Therefore, the question of who is to decide on a pregnancy will depend on how far the pregnancy has come, according to today’s abortion law. The abortion law gives women the right to decide for themselves whether to interrupt pregnancy before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy. However, after the end of the 12th week of pregnancy, an abortion student decides whether to grant abortion to the woman. The abortion students shall place considerable emphasis on the woman’s own assessment of her situation, including: as regards her ability to take adequate care of the child. The grounds for discontinuing pregnancy shall increase in line with the length of pregnancy. After the end of the 18th week of pregnancy, there must be particularly serious grounds for granting abortion. If pregnancy has come so far that there is reason to believe that the foetus will survive outside of Mother's life, abortion as a general rule cannot be granted. In 2012, the Health Directorate was asked to set up an independent expert group to assess the procedure for abortion. The group pointed out major differences in practice, including: in how the denominators posted the conversation with the women. In some cases the woman was not called to a joint meeting with the two doctors in the name, but had to talk to one doctor at a time. There were also examples of a lack of interpretation. We're not going to let women who are seeking abortion, and who are often in a difficult situation, meet in different ways. We must ensure the legal certainty of women and ensure that we receive equal treatment, regardless of the name of the person handling the application. In 2017, we therefore opened up a reduction in the number of names by a change in the abortion regulation, and health regions are now following up this work just to ensure that women are treated in a similar way, regardless of where they live in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1661	I am aware of how the scheme is now. What I'm concerned about is how it will be, and therefore I have to ask again, a little more concretely: is it so to understand that as long as the Minister of Health is Minister of Health, we are not in danger of getting a removal of the medical basis and replacing it with a discretionary basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1666	I do not really feel that it is a discussion whether or not we are going to have an examination. I understand that in the Labour Party there is now a discussion about it after the AUF national meeting decision, but I do not feel that it is the theme. The theme is the criteria to be considered. There the right has said that we are open to negotiate this topic, but then under some very clear assumptions, among other things. that the emphasis on women's assessment of their own situation must be strengthened. That's a significant prerequisite for us. But these abortions will in any case be treated in terms of, like today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1671	I have to ask again: does that mean that there is no reason to worry that the denominators will be replaced – or almost become a kind of supervision for high morals, as it works in the social debate now? The concern is that this debate, which has now opened up to the Right, may result in the denominators no longer focusing on a medical basis, but on their own judgement – that is, whether or not they think it is right to grant abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1676	It is already the case today that the denominators consider questions other than medical questions. I have to make sure that the numbers are correct, but I think that about half of the abortions that the denominators grant today are based on Section 2c. This also means that there are a number of other factors that the denominators consider, including: the life situation of the woman. I would strongly advise against making the denominators based on a description that was perhaps more central in the 1960s and 1970s. Today, I experience very much that the denominators have a strong desire to support the woman's choice, to provide good guidance, as well as to reach the conclusion, but I am concerned about the variation that has been in the subjects' treatment, and the variation that it has, for example. has been in the way you have met the women. That women should have to explain themselves to two doctors separately, instead of doing it once, I don't think that's acceptable, and that's why we've been working on reducing the number of subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1684	‘The rate of abortion has declined since 2008 and is historically low. ==References== 4 percent, 546 cases, nominally treated abortions. Today, the third paragraph of paragraph (c) of Section 2 of the Mortgage Act is completely neutral and easy to use, but the Council of State has stated that he wants a legal text in which abortion of a medical indication occurs only if the foetus is ‘not viable’. This is a real curfew, according to lawyers and doctors, who sit in the subject of abortion. When the text is completely neutral, the abortion rate is low and the proportion that goes down is low, why will the Council of State tighten up the possibility of abortion?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1691	The government doesn't have work to do to change today's abortion permit. I refer to the premises that the Prime Minister initially made for this kind of question in today's Question Time. I have never said that I want to tighten up the possibilities of abortion according to § 2c. What I have been concerned about is that § 2c can be experienced today as a discriminatory part of the abortion law because it gives an unconditional right to abortion if the foetus, for example. has Down's syndrome. I understand from the question that the representative Kjerkol believes that the legal text is completely neutral. I also expect that the representative has come to realize that some of them are concerned, today the law is perceived to be discriminatory. I believe it is possible through negotiations to find solutions that remove the discriminatory element of the law. In that case, abortion students must pay more attention to the woman’s assessment of her own life situation if she is given responsibility for a child with additional challenges, and the woman should of course also have abortions in cases where the foetus has a life-incompatible condition. That is why, as Mrs Solberg also said in the debate on 1 November, this will in practice mean that women seeking abortion after 12 weeks, as much as today, will be granted in the future with the premises set by the Right to be able to participate in any changes. The representative is right that the abortion rate goes down. In the last five years, there have been historically low abortions. That is, there has not been a lower percentage of abortions since registration started in 1980. In both 2017 and 2018, it was recorded historically low abortion rates, also in the number of abortions. There are a number of good abortion prevention measures in place, especially targeting young women — even where we see the greatest decline. For the period 2017 to 2022, prevention of unwanted pregnancy is part of the follow-up to ‘Speak about it! Sexual Health Strategy’; We see that a number of measures the government has taken in recent years, including in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, have had significant effects, and in recent years there has been a marked decrease in the number of abortions. I think that's very gratifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1700	One of the measures the Christian People's Party was very busy in 2015, was a plan to further reduce the number of abortions. The party to which the government has chosen to cast votes. That is what we in the Workers' Party think is a sin. But what I've noticed, as the Council of State said in its answer, is that people with Down's syndrome experience being mentioned in a context they feel is difficult. I've been impressed and moved in the last few weeks by these strong reports from families and individuals who find it very difficult for both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health to consistently refer to a neutral law paragraph as the ‘downs paragraph’. If this is the case, if you want to change Section 2c, the Council of State says that you should ensure more self-determination for women: Well, if you remove Section 2c, the more the assessment is mentioned. How can the Council explain that women's self-interest should then be better cared for?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1707	We will achieve that by doing what I have said, and as the Right Leader has also said, and which is an important premise from the Right: to strengthen the emphasis of the woman's assessment of her own situation. If this is the result of negotiations, legal work will have to undergo the same work as all other legal work in Norway before the Stortinget may be given ample opportunity to discuss it. But at least these are important premises from the Right. The representative referred to a representative proposal from the Christian People's Party, which was promoted and discussed in 2014. All ten proposals made by the Christian People's Party have been implemented or implemented. It's of course joyous, but what's extra happy is that the effect of this is also in line with what was the Christian People's Party's goal at the time, that one would work for a third reduction in the number of abortions in ten years. Hopefully that's where we're going.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1716	If we are to strengthen women's self-determination in the treatment of denominators and remove the objective legal text that mentions a serious disease in the foetus, we are not far off with exactly what the Council of State has said in its reply to a previous question, namely that we are opening up a more liberal practice, a more liberal law – not so far away from it as, among other things. The Youth Party of the Workers Party has proposed extending the border? If it is the case that nematode treatment should give more weight to women's self-determination, what is the heavy argument that the Council of State has for keeping the denominators?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1721	What will be important is that the denominators will be there to ensure what are also the principles of today's abortion law, namely a progressively greater legal protection for the foetus. There is therefore an increase in the weight of values even after the limit of self-determined abortion. The problem we want to solve by any change is to remove what is today perceived as a discriminatory element. But in sum, with the premises on the right, we say that this is not a measure to reduce the number of abortions by rejection. A reduction in the number of abortions is to be done through other instruments, such as: the instruments we have already implemented or are in the process of implementing, and from which we also see happy results.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1731	This question, from the representative of Hege Haukeland Liadal to the Minister for Health, has been transferred to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality as the appropriate representative, but will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1736	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Many people who are born with mental retardation are distressed by the discrimination they experience. Throughout a lifetime, they must strive to achieve natural rights. Shouldn't we put in all the political power to get to work for them?'
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1745	It is important for the government that fundamental rights of persons with a developmental disability are safeguarded in a safe and sound manner. NOU 2016: 17 On the same line, also known as the Rights Committee, eight pledges were proposed to ensure that people with developmental disabilities are granted fundamental rights in line with the rest of the population. The government has started several major works that are, in part or in whole, a follow-up to the rights committee. Here we can mention that we are working on guidelines and guidance material that clearly formulates what is proper services for people with developmental disabilities. We also look at what is needed to make services more individually organised. In parallel with this follow-up, the government is working on a combined strategy and action plan for gender equality for people with disabilities. The strategy includes, inter alia: a follow-up to the proposals for the rights committee in Lift 8, ‘targeted governance’. The theme of the strategy and action plan is the policy for people with disabilities in general. Policies and measures for people with developmental disabilities are an important part of this work. Before the summer, the Stortinget took a number of request decisions on the work on the human rights and equivalency of people with disabilities. The size has, among other things, asked the government to submit a comprehensive communication proposing measures to ensure compliance with its human rights in the same way as others. The government has started work on making the gross domestic product notification to address the rights of persons with developmental disabilities. The notification will allow the Stortinget to discuss the situation of the less developed, more comprehensively, including: in the light of the assessments of the Rights Committee. In my opinion, the bigger work now being done shows that the government is taking the situation of those with developmental disabilities most seriously, and that we are working for an equal society for all. The Storing Communication will also facilitate what the representative suggests in his question, that a cross-political consensus can also be reached on important issues related to this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1762	I'm glad of the answer. However, the NFU rightly states that the government's draft budget is out of direction and that it is difficult to see any kind of bet against this group. Feedback we receive is a challenge related to, for example: mental retardation requiring specialist healthcare in psychiatry. I am therefore using the occasion, as the Minister for Health answers my questions today: Does the Council of State know whether the psychiatrist has enough knowledge of mental retardation and their mental illness?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1769	I believe that today we have challenges to give this patient group a good enough offer, especially in the area of mental health. We are now working on a national health and hospital plan where we have chosen mental health as the main professional theme. The offer to this group is going to be part of that work, because there is no doubt that there is a need for improvement here. There is also a need for improvements in what can be called general public health work. We see that mental retardants who live in municipal housing, often put on, have too little physical activity, too little content and activity during the days. So there's a lot of work that needs to be done to actually achieve the objective of an equivalent health offer and to balance the social health differences in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1776	I thank you for a good answer. The SOR Foundation also says that the government's proposal for a government budget is a poor budget for people with developmental disabilities. They think the group has been completely forgotten. The government has talked a lot about inclusion skills in other areas. My last question is: wouldn't it be natural to include this particular group in this task?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1785	I feel that this group is also part of the effort. We want people who, for various reasons, have remained out of work to be more able to do so. We are now in a situation where unemployment is falling and employment is rising. We've been in that kind of situation before, but we haven't managed to bring in those who've been out of work for a long time. We hope that the inclusion due to which it is now working very systematically will help to ensure that when we go into such a period again, we are just going to succeed in what we haven't done before: to give more people who want to work, an opportunity to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1790	Then we go to question 25.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1798	This question, from the representative of Kari Elisabeth Kaski to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be answered by the Minister for Health as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1803	‘The Minister of State has opened up to weaken the abortion law. The Minister for Equal Opportunities has so far not wanted to comment on this issue that is currently going on in the media, which will greatly affect women's right to control their own bodies. From a gender perspective, how does the Council of State address the proposal to remove point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 2 of the Abortion Act, and what is the outcome of the Council of State's view that this would be for women's right to determine their own bodies?'
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1811	Once again, I must stress that the government does not have a work to do to change today's abortion law, and that the premises the Prime Minister gave for this questioning process relating to this kind of question also apply to this answer. Many people experience § 2c as a discriminating part of the abortion law because it gives an unconditional right to abortion if the foetus, for example. has Down's syndrome. Removing § 2c is not Right Policy, although there are different opinions about this in the Party. What we're open to, on the other hand, is to negotiate it under some clear assumptions. I believe that it is possible through negotiations to find solutions that remove the discriminatory element of the law. Absorbent students must then pay more attention to the woman’s assessment of her own life situation, for example. if you are given responsibility for a child who has additional challenges, and of course women should continue to have abortions in cases where the foetus has a condition incompatible with life. Therefore, in sum, as Erna Solberg said in the debate on 1 November, this means that in practice, women seeking abortion after 12 weeks will be able to have abortions as much as they are today in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1820	I would like to grasp what the Council of State here says is that more emphasis should be placed on the woman's assessment of her own life situation. The woman has applied for abortion, and I think we can assume that when a woman applies for abortion, she has made an assessment of her own life situation and what she wants. Often this is really quite far out in a pregnancy, one has gone pregnant for a while and the known body changes. You might have started to enjoy yourself, maybe you've been sick and tired, and you've started to think ahead until you have to give birth. But then you get that experience and the message that you go and carry on a seriously ill fetus. The question then arises: What criteria does the Council of State consider to be the basis for assessing the woman’s situation in life? Will e.g. Having a steady and secure job with stable income means that you won't be able to get an abortion?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1827	The abortion law – even today – is based on an increase in the legal protection of the foetus in line with the length of pregnancy. Until the 12th week, it is the woman's decision to choose abortion. After the twelfth week, the decision is taken by the denominator. After 18 weeks, there shall be special reasons, and at some point an abortion will not be granted if the foetus is viable outside the mother's life. This emphasis and grading is the principle on which the law is based. When the law e.g. indicates that there is self-determined abortion to the twelfth week, it is not because it is not considered that the fetus has a self-value, but it is considered that the woman herself is best suited to make these assessments up to that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1832	I guess I don't quite feel that I get the clarity of what criteria you think should be on the basis of. Then it's not so strange that women today feel that a right that you have is about to be weakened. We've also seen a lot, I'd say, hurt and personal chronicles that have been written in the media lately, that tell about it as women – but also families – when they find out that the fetus you carry, the baby you wear, has a serious illness. We've read that women are afraid that they should be forced to have a pregnancy and give birth to a child that they know is seriously ill. We could read a chronicle about parents who had to ask if their child could feel the love that parents gave to that child. So my question is whether the Council of State understands that these women – and the men – are afraid that they might lose a right that they have today, to be able to really control their own bodies and their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1839	These kinds of debates are always difficult, simply because those who have been in that situation have had a difficult experience. No one doesn't understand. However, it must be possible to discuss the abortion law in Norway. It must be possible to recognise that someone experiences today's law as discriminatory, that one can seek to find ways to remove what is perceived as discriminatory, while at the same time premising that at that point women's rights should not be impaired either. If this is the result of the negotiations, it will take place through ordinary legislative work, which will then provide the basis for discussions and adjustments to take account of the political considerations set out by a debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1846	Then we thank State Council Höie for a long effort today. We're going back to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1857	‘USA is Norway’s most important allies. Good friends should be honest with each other, even when they disagree. The Trump administration’s ‘curve rule’ challenges women’s right to control their own bodies. Support for health stations, birth aid and vaccines is also dramatically cut if the organisations also provide abortion guidance. In what bilateral contexts has the Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed the ‘minor basket rule’ and the question of women’s sexual and reproductive rights with the United States?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1864	Good friends are honest with each other – good allies are, even when we disagree. The United States is one of Norway’s most important partners in global health work. At the same time, as the representative Huitfeldt of course knows, all Republican administrations have been operating since the 1980s with a variant of the so-called Mexico City Policy, or the ‘curve rule’. It prohibits, as the representative rightly says, US support for organisations that either carry out, disclose or refer to abortion. This also applies if the organisation uses funds from other donors for this work. Trump’s version of this rule, called Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance, is the most comprehensive so far. While organizations in the past had to deal with the rules only if they received American funds earmarked for family planning, almost all American health care is now covered. Norway is deeply concerned about its consequences. There is now a review of the effects of Mexico City Policy in the U.S. Congress, and as a central partner, Norway is specifically asked to record this report. We're going to take that opportunity to do and to clearly express our strong concern about how Mexico City Policy affects women's and girls' sexual and reproductive rights. Norway took up this Mexico City rule with the State Department at the latest earlier this year. We also had a meeting with the United States United Nations delegation last Friday, which I mentioned in connection with the representative's questions in the oral Question Time, where we were also very clear that the language that the United States wants for abortion is not acceptable. We're also making representations about these effects to Congress. In addition, we have made recordings to the United States in connection with the UPRs – Universal Periodic Review – in the Human Rights Council, where we also ask that these restrictions on abortion be removed. Cutting access to safe abortion solutions does not lead to fewer abortions. This leads to more unsafe abortions, leading to higher maternal mortality. We also underline what we consider to be very unfortunate ring-effects, for example. distinction and stigmatisation of women’s health services and far more difficult working conditions for civil society and service providers. Norway is a very clear international voice for women’s rights and equality. We are a leading contributor to international sexual and reproductive health services, and we believe that access to modern prevention and safe abortion solutions is essential to ensure women and girls the same rights and opportunities as boys and men. Of course, we are also clear about this in all relevant channels and meetings. Financially, the government will increase its efforts by over 700 million. DKK over four years, and a total of 1,5 billion is planned to be spent. kr on sexual and reproductive health rights in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1881	The Minister for Foreign Affairs is asked in many ways whether she has raised various questions, whether there are human rights with China or nuclear weapons with other countries. It is clear that this is important, for which matters the Foreign Minister has on his list of conversations, say a little about what priorities we have. Now I get a rather long talk about who else has talked about this, in what multilateral contexts and at other levels. I get no clear answer to whether the Foreign Minister has raised this question in any way in bilateral talks with the Americans. This is incredibly important, because it is not just about abortion – it is also about the closure of health clinics for young people in the context of prevention. Vaccinators are also affected — if there are organisations that also provide abortion aid. So my question is, has the Foreign Minister now been so honest – also with our most important allies – that she has addressed this at her direct meetings with the Americans?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1888	Norwegian foreign policy is more than the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That means we're using all the forums and channels we can to address these questions. The list I gave the representative right now is a very good picture of both how we work, how we have an international leadership role, and not least that Norwegian policy is very well known to the Americans. If, for example: was that it was not known to the Americans what Norway thought about Mexico City Policy, nor had we been invited to make recordings of Congress's review of it. We've made recommendations, we're taking it in bilateral meetings, and we're going with other countries to point out the unacceptableness of changing the language of abortion that has been contained in resolutions and in texts in the United Nations for a number of years, which the United States now wants to change. It's also a side of this Mexico City policy, and so far the way the Americans are now working. In addition, I think it is important to stress that we both have increased our contributions from Norway – we had a very successful conference last week to fill the global funding mechanism for health, of which one third, approximately. 300 million. The dollar of what was collected goes to sexual and reproductive health – and we see that the way we work, including entering the SheDecides initiative and filling up where the Americans withdraw and withdraw their financial support, is an important political signal from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1895	We can talk about this government cutting off quite a bit in support of the UN Population Fund, which is involved in abortion, and being late on the track for SheDecides. But I have a question here, and it was, in what bilateral contexts has the Foreign Minister addressed the ‘minus basket rule’ and questions about women’s sexual and reproductive rights with the United States? That's the question I've asked in today's Question Time, and it's about the Secretary of State himself, it's not about other channels. And as far as I can understand the Foreign Minister's answer, the answer to that question is: none. She has not addressed in any context the ‘oral basket rule’ and the question of women’s sexual and reproductive rights with the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1900	And I have also given an answer that I think is good and comprehensive for what is Norwegian foreign policy. I think it is important that Norway is clear here, and we are. It is well known to both our friends and allies and to those we deeply disagree with in other contexts, what Norway thinks about these things, and we are also working to change it. Then I can't help but comment on what Huitfeldt's representative says that Norway was late when it came to SheDecides. That's just not right. The government was represented by the Minister for Children and Gender Equality at the first conference, which took place in Brussels in March 2017. The representative Huitfeldt was also present. So I think it's a little strange that the representative hadn't come to realize that there was a government council present, which represented Norway and the Norwegian view.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1910	‘We see an international development against several authoritarian regimes, where so-called ‘strong men’ take power, brought about by populist movements. These ‘strong men’ policies often go beyond the rights of strong women. Norway has long had the right of women to determine their own sexual and reproductive health as an important part of our international work. What signal does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it is sending to countries such as the United States, Poland and Brazil that Norwegian government members are opening up to tightening up the abortion law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1917	Not only has Norway had, but Norway has the right of women to control their own sexual and reproductive health as a very important part of our foreign policy and our international work. I also feel that there is complete agreement in Stortinget. So there is no work going on in the government to change the abortion law, nor is there any discussion in Norway related to the issue of self-determined abortion. I think it's important to underline that. We are an important driver of women's rights and the results achieved. And as the representative Barth Eide knows very well, it is today a considerable job to stand up to defend the rights that have been achieved – not only the idea of which new ones can be implemented, but also those we have achieved. We take a leading role in this field internationally, and there is no contradiction between working for the right to abortion abroad while having a discussion about some ethical issues in Norway – under the clear assumption that women’s rights are not impaired. We talked in the previous answer about Mexico City Policy, and I also gave there a supplementary explanation of how we work to change it. We have seen that the changed policies of the United States have given way to some of the counterclaims that we are now working against. This is one of the reasons why we from Norway are now seeking other and new partnerships, and where what is perhaps most enjoyable in the last few years, is that some Latin American countries are now turning around. It's important. At the same time, we use the opportunity, both bilaterally and multilaterally, to address these issues with several countries. Some of the countries that have received recommendations from Norway, in addition to the United States, are among others. Poland, El Salvador, Honduras, Myanmar, Paraguay, Ecuador, Chile, Argentina and Ireland. It is precisely because we see that, together with other countries as well as bilaterally with these countries, we have to keep working on this. We had, as I mentioned in my previous answer, a conference that was very successful last week. There it was collected approx. 1 billion. SEK to, among others Sexual and reproductive health – c. A third goes to it. What we were told – from the wide international network of Norway is working with, among other things. Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, to mention something, and the World Bank – are very much commended to Norway for the leadership we take. I think they also notice abroad that this is what Norway is all about, and that the job of the previous government, of which Barth Eide was part, in terms of health, we have now been able to further develop to focus even more on mother and child health, where the main focus of course was on vaccines for a period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1935	I want to give recognition to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to continue and stand up for a good policy in this area internationally, and I am pleased to have recorded many of these measures. Here I can confirm that there is a great deal of agreement that this should be part of Norwegian foreign policy – we will say that here in Stortinget. What worries me is that we have to take into account that trends within a country can also infect the impression of that country outside. Let's just remember the 1970s, how many countries – the United States and Western European countries – moved towards a more liberal abortion policy and opened up the right of women to self-determination. It didn't happen by chance in many countries at the same time, it just happened because you inspired each other, you learned from each other. The ‘Roe versus Wade’ judgment in the United States in 1973, for example, was also an inspiration for the work that was going on here in Norway. Norway has also inspired countries elsewhere by being among the modern countries in this field for many years. That's why it's nice to have a good policy abroad. Does not the Minister for Foreign Affairs also see that there is a problem if there is an impression that Norway is heading in the opposite direction and that it can undermine international work?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1942	First of all, there's no point to say that it's made such an impression. Secondly, it is not right for the government to work on that kind of question. But I think that in every country from time to time there are discussions about different ethical issues as they arise. technology is making great progress. Keeps a tight grip on the law, e.g.? But there is no proposal to amend the law. And the Prime Minister has, under several of his answers here today, as both Barth Eide and I sat and heard, been very clear that it is not relevant to change or restrict women's rights. On the contrary, the feedback from our international partners, both bilaterally and multilaterally, is that Norway’s leadership role in this is strong and clear, and that there is no impression – which is no reason to create any impression – that there should be a trend, or a trend, towards changes in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1947	Then I would like to quote the Chief Editor of what is called the EU Observer, which is published in Brussels, and which is an important body for people interested in European policy. It says: ‘Norway’s conservative prime minister, Erna Solberg, has proposed tightening the country’s abortion laws, in a political gambit that goes against Europe’s liberal trend.’ This is at least one example of something it might become more of, a little depending on how these negotiations that are now coming will go. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if there are any such suggestions: will she see it as important to try to correct the impression, that Norway has not now been focused on a trend that we see in both Eastern Europe and Brazil, and even within the United States, where we have now got a composition of the Supreme Court that might challenge the break of the 'Roe versus Wade' itself from the 1970s? Because I would be deeply concerned if the impression was created, even if one can argue that it is not right, and does the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider that it is her job to help that the impression does not spread?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1959	In the statement that the representative Barth Eide mentions, it is the fundamental error that it is presented as if the Prime Minister or Government have proposed something for consideration, and that is obviously not correct, as the representative also knows. I believe that the Prime Minister today was very clear and clear about what lies in possible discussions, and that there is no work going on in Norway to change the abortion law. That is why I also believe that the Prime Minister himself today made a good contribution to clarifying the possible misunderstandings that might be. I also believe that it is important in the United Kingdom, from the opposition and others, not to contribute to drawing an image that is not correct by what is the real debate in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1967	This question, from the representative of Olivia Corso Salles to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Older People and Public Health as appropriate. The question will be raised by the representative Petter Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1974	‘One of the most important things for many families with seriously ill and disabled children is to get help to cope when everyday life is most difficult. Will the government support SV's proposal to legislate a family week scheme to help families when they are most difficult?'
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1981	In earlier times we had something called housewives, one that came when everyday life became too strenuous for toddler families with special challenges. After both language and legislation have been modernised, municipalities are today obliged by the Health and Welfare Services Act to provide practical assistance, as it says. This is a common term for home help and other ancillary services for parents, disabled persons, families with children and other persons in need of such assistance. The main purpose is to provide assistance to the practical tasks of everyday life at home and in relation to the household. We know that this isn't enough. We know that many relatives are struggling, that they are experiencing health damage, stress and overload, that there are families that are no longer able, and that should not be the case. The family shall be met by public services which work with them, guide and support them, and which provide relief where necessary. Therefore, this government chose to ensure that the care of the individual is given a clearer place in healthcare through a new obligation which brings together and makes clear the responsibility of the municipality towards those who have a particularly burdensome care job. The provision of guidance and training by the municipality should help those concerned to provide good care, not only for their immediate loved ones, but also for themselves. The municipality shall make an independent assessment of the needs of caregivers for relief and, where appropriate, provide care assistance if the user and his/her wishes and if this would provide a good and sound service to the user. We know that many relatives want more predictability in everyday life, at the same time they will have different needs, different desires and different prerequisites for providing care. Support for relatives must therefore be flexible enough to adapt to different needs, which must be based on dialogue with those concerned. This has been sought by the government to achieve through this amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e1992	Thank you for the answer, which to some extent comes to meet us. When we discuss this today, it is also in a kind of context of a debate on abortion. We in SV are concerned that when we discuss families and children, we, as responsible politicians, must establish a policy that ensures a good and safe environment for families – that is, a family policy that should provide security for families. They should know that if they have a child with special needs, it is a welfare society that is ready to meet their needs. This is also a natural extension of welfare state arrangements, as we see it. At the same time, the Council of State says that the scheme is not good enough today, and that we would like to have a better and wider offer in this area. So my question goes back to the Council of State: is it not to some extent unfair that this group does not receive sufficient help, when the scheme is so arbitrary today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2001	I believe that I replied in the first answer that we have just changed this arrangement. We have an obligation for municipalities to assess it on a case-by-case basis, and that, in cases where there is an additional need, one sees the individual family. Because we're different, we have different things that pose challenges, we're in different places in life. There may be older ones, or there may be families with children who need extra help. But today we have an opportunity to offer a care allowance under municipal law. In addition, under my colleague, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, there are grants in the form of care allowances, which can be paid instead of wages. So there are good arrangements today. We believe that the change we have made has just been made to safeguard the flexibility of the families, which they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2008	Thanks for the answer. Of course, we are aware that there is such a duty in the municipalities, and it is on both the good and the bad. The good thing, of course, is that municipalities are closer to the needs of people than other agencies can do. What is not good about it is that the municipalities behave differently, so that families will have different offers depending on where they live. There may be municipalities with different resources, and there may also be municipalities where employees make different and perhaps arbitrary assessments. That is why we are committed to legislating this, so that the municipalities far, far more clearly have a duty, and also that persons with this need have a very clear right. My question is then: why is the government opposed, or disagreed, to legislate for this right and not leave it up to each municipality to care for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2013	As a matter of principle, local democracy should have that very closeness to its users. They know their citizens and will take responsibility for giving proper priority. I like to listen to good ideas to develop services in the municipal sector, of course also those that come from party SV, but now we have a regulation in place. The most important thing now is to ensure, I think, an increased awareness and good practice of this legislation rather than creating new, equivalent provisions. Then I'd like to point extra to the local election training that we have after each local election, i.e. every four years, out in the municipalities. I think it's important, in cooperation with the KS, to make visible to our ombudsmen and women who can choose from the different parties in a cross-political way, that they are conscious of their responsibility for prioritising their citizens. Then, as I have said before, it is the most important thing that comes first.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2029	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2037	‘The size has required the government to improve the care scheme. The budget came, and the bill was notified, but nothing happened. Now parents with critically ill children don't dare take the necessary leave, because they're afraid to spend their quota. When will the proposal to abolish the time limit for the provision of benefits be deleted?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2044	The amendments, which represent significant improvements to the care allowance scheme, entered into force on 1 October 2017. Parents of seriously ill children have it demanding in every way, and I understand that they are concerned about both the health of the child and the situation of the family. It is regrettable that even now, when the scheme has only been in one year, people are concerned about how to deal with it when the time account is used up. Several request decisions were taken in connection with the treatment of the care scheme and the budget last year. The application decisions have been followed up and described in Prop. 12 L for 2018–2019, which was submitted on Friday and sent to Stortinget yesterday. In the proposition, the government has also presented a legislative proposal on how to remove the time limit. Consequently, the government has provided the Stortinget with the legal assistance necessary to do so. The reason why the government has not promoted this as a legislative proposal now is that the government believes it is necessary to investigate both the arrangements and the consequences of such extensive legislative changes before they may be adopted, so that an extended regime becomes good and meets more needs. Nursing allowance is – and has always been – a temporary income allowance for professionals who have to be away from work to care for sick children. This is also the minimum vesting scheme, which is four weeks' vesting time for 1,300 days' income hedge, and for some groups unlimited. The change outlined by the Storting will mean that the scheme goes from a temporary income replacement scheme to a long-term benefit. This is a completely different scheme from what has been investigated in the past. The time account gives you the right to be away from work for 1 300 days, i.e. five years, if you withdraw a care allowance continuously. Since everyone started a new account on 1 October 2017, it is therefore still a long time since it has been used up. We therefore have time to investigate the matter properly by 2022. It is also important to stress that there are a number of other schemes intended to help parents with sick children. Financial assistance is provided through social assistance, care and municipal social assistance. Municipal health and care services can provide assistance and care for the child and for parents to relieve them. Services mean a great deal to parents’ ability to have contact with the workplace, the family’s social needs and to meet the needs of siblings, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2065	It seems that the government has not understood that the Storting has decided to have a time-limited system. For families with children who are critically ill over a long period of time – there are not many, but they exist – it is a permanent state of emergency. The arguments on working life and equality and other arrangements of a very different extent are not relevant to the decision of the Grand Duchy and have been mandated by the Government to investigate. I also understand that the Council of State does not understand that the parents who have been in such a situation for several years, and who know that it may be the end of tomorrow, but that it may also last for several years, now sit and do not dare to take the days out because then you risk using the scheme if there is no new permanent arrangement in place. Doesn't the Council of State see the dilemma?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2070	That's exactly what the government wants to do. That's what we're saying that we want to do, but the Storting obviously doesn't have time to wait for it. We have, in the proposition we made, provided the Stortinget with legal assistance to be able to adopt such a lifting of the time limit. The government does not promote it itself because we think we should investigate the different consequences of it when we have time to figure out the consequences of it. No one's gonna lose any allowance tomorrow. No one loses the allowance until next year. Those that take out 100 pst. care allowance, will not lose the allowance after five years. That means we have time to do this investigation. In addition, there are a number of exceptions in the care scheme that protect many of the children I think Karin Andersen is also concerned about. The size is free to adopt the legal text we have presented in the proposition, but the government recommends that we take the time to figure out the consequences of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2079	I understand that the Council of State does not have the ability to get into the situation these parents are in now, when they are afraid to use up the scheme. The council says we have time, but that's not safe. And why shouldn't we afford to give exactly these parents -- there aren't many -- the security they need to be with their children, in such critical and difficult situations that many of these families live under? I haven't met a single person – and I meet a lot of people who disagree very much with SV in many things – who don't think we should settle this right away and give these parents that security. I understand that the Council of State does not mean that it is urgent, but the Swedish authorities feel that it is urgent. In addition, there is an urgent need to bring about changes in the graduation legislation so that families who are night watchers for their own children and need to be in continuous emergency preparedness can also have a better system. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2088	It seems that the representative Andersen refuses to deal with the fact that no one loses the allowance in the next five years if you take out 100 pst. There is no reason to be afraid that the care allowance will cease now, because they do not. It's five years you'll get a care allowance. It is important to remember that the changes we have made in the care scheme have been a significant improvement compared to the one that Karin Andersen himself never regretted improving. We have now incorporated permanently ill children into the scheme. They weren't before. We have now raised the age limit to 18 years. It wasn't like that before. We've now let both parents have the opportunity to take care of money at the same time. It wasn't possible to do that earlier. We have also made it possible for parents with a lower care requirement than 5 pst. to be able to withdraw care allowance. It wasn't before either. In addition, there are derogations for those who have a serious disease that is not permanent and also for those with a mental retardation with a serious disease. The system has improved significantly, and it is important that Stortinget also communicates externally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2098	This question, from the representative Emilie Enger Mehl to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2103	«Since spring, wolves have herded in pasture-priority areas in the north-eastern valley. Pastoral users are not compensated for their financial losses in an exceptional situation similar to those resulting from the attacks on Hadeland. In Hadeland, one wolf took 303 sheep. In the North East Valley 350 sheep have been found, there is an estimated loss of 875 sheep and exceptional supervision exceeds the number of hours in Hadeland. Why does the Council of State consider that the attacks in the north-east valley are not exceptional, when the consequences are in all respects equivalent or more extensive than the attacks on Hadeland?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2110	Farmers in the north-east have had a difficult situation this summer. The Minister for Climate and Environment himself visited the area to get the best possible knowledge of the situation there. I see the representative as asking for compensation for grazing users under the preventive and conflict mitigation scheme. Such grants may include, for example: extended and exceptional supervision, home grazing, delayed grazing, movements of animals and early sinking. Last summer there was a great loss of sheep for wolves in Uppland and Akershus. On a general basis, the State promised financial compensation for all reasonable preventive expenditure. Provisional guidelines were developed for settlements such as: meant that a grant was paid to grazing users who had not previously settled their expenses with the County. Following the settlement in 2017, proposals for national rates for home grazing and early sinking were sent at general consultation, and new, permanent rates were adopted in March 2018. The rates and guidelines are designed in such a way that they also take into account exceptional situations, such as in the north-east valley. If we look at the loss rate, I agree that there are similarities between Uppland and Akershus last year and North-East this year. At the same time, there are clear differences. Firstly, in 2018, the country has consistently communicated that the new, permanent guidelines and national rates are to be used as the basis for the settlement in the north-east valley, and this means that all expenditure should be settled in advance with the State. It is absolutely necessary to ensure budgetary control and predictability. In 2017, it was said that all reasonable expenses would be covered without prior agreement. It was also informed in 2017 that this was a temporary arrangement, which would not constitute the precedent for the coming years and similar events. Furthermore, there are also differences with regard to how well prepared damage can occur and the experience of dealing with such situations. We believe that there are good, permanent arrangements to deal with such situations, and that good compensation is given for them today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2123	I believe it is directly misleading to say that the losses are covered by the revised FKT regulation. The farmers and grazing users in the north-east valley ended up in an emergency, extraordinary situation where they had to do something. Something else would be irresponsible. There are still amounts that have not been replaced because of the loss of the pasture premium after early lowering. The beets have lost grants, and they have also received increased administrative costs. In addition, thousands of hours of extraordinary supervision and search for dead and injured animals are not covered, nor are the driving costs associated with this – costs that have been absolutely necessary. Also farmers who have not lost animals but who have been on pastures where they have had to look have been charged costs. This is the loss the state has to cover, and then I will ask: Does the Council of State think that it is the state or the individual grazing user who is closest to bearing the cost of the predatory policy that the state is pursuing?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2130	As I understand it, the big difference between 2017 and 2018 is that in 2017, a person could receive a payment without prior approval of the prevention measures. In 2017, there was a situation in which one received a payment for conditions that one had put in place without prior approval of them by the County State in advance. What's different this year is that you have to have such a prior approval. But there are good arrangements to get it covered. The County of Hedmark has so far granted 3,8 million. kr for prevention measures in the North East Valley in 2018. In principle, the normal deadline for applying for these measures is 15 January, but the State may also, following the continuous commitment to grant preventive measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2135	When the wolf was discovered in the grazing priority area – it is essential that it is grazing priority – in April, he was applied for a litter permit on the wolf. It was a precautionary measure, but it was rejected. After that, it has been taken closer to 900 sheep in the area, which could have been averted if that wolf had been taken out. The measures implemented by the farmers and farmers in the area are measures that have been urgently needed and that have had to be implemented because of the presence of animals in the mountains, where predators are also incompatible. This is an extraordinary situation completely in line with what happened in Hadeland. In the letter from the department it is written that it is not so extraordinary because one has to expect more predators in the north-east than in Hadeland, and then I have to ask: Does the Council of State mean that in the future one should not have a grazing priority area where there has been so much attack this summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2140	The important thing is to have a system that can apply even when there are exceptional situations. Therefore, it is important that we control the costs of prevention measures, and that is why it is not possible for us to apply for prevention grants without having a prior authorisation first, as it was in 2017. It was communicated throughout that it was a temporary arrangement that would not create precedent. It is crucial to make arrangements like this work. There are good schemes and good opportunities to receive grants to implement prevention measures. However, in order to control costs, we need to have a system in which it is applied for in advance and where the County approves and gives commitments before preventive action is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2150	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration the following questions: «The last night until 8 November, car fires were reported in Groruddalen. Last year and this year a number of car fires have been mentioned both here and in areas such as the inner city east and Oslo south. Some cases have probably not been mentioned in the media either. It is not known that anyone is imprisoned and convicted for the car fires, despite the investigation in the police. Does the State Council have an overview of the number of car fires in Oslo and in the country in 2017 and so far in 2018, and does he have any assessment of what needs to be done to clear them up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2159	The Ministry of Justice and Defence receives tertiary reports dealing with the development of crime and criminal proceedings, from the Police Directorate and the National Attorney. The reporting gives an overall picture of the development. On the other hand, the Ministry does not receive information on the evolution of the individual categories of offences for the various police districts. It has not been possible to obtain information on the number of national car fires and in Oslo within the short time frame available. For some of the conditions referred to in the question, the event has taken place shortly. These conditions will not have been fully investigated. When it comes to the question of what to do in order to settle matters, it is important to clarify that as the Council of State, I cannot go in and give guidance on how to conduct the investigation. The government and the Ministry's task is to provide the police and prosecution authorities with a good framework for their research, prosecution and handling of cases. These car fires should not be seen in isolation but in the light of challenges such as juvenile delinquency and gangs. In the state budget for 2019, the government proposes that it be set at 50 million. kr to a specific package to strengthen efforts against juvenile crime and gangs. The funds shall cover three main areas: strengthen child protection by 10 million. kr strengthen the work of the conflict councils, including alternative criminal-law responses, youth penalties and youth follow-up, by 16 million. kr Strengthen the police by 24 million. SEK, of which 16 million. kr shall be invested in the Oslo Police Department and 8 million. kr to strengthen the efforts of the special organs Kripos and Økokrim In addition, the government of the State budget proposes to continue the special police operation in Oslo South by 30 million. kr and in Oslo east by 7 mill. kr. In particular, the funds shall be linked to prevention efforts and to preventing recruitment into criminal relay environments. The funds are seen in the context of other funds allocated as part of the area operation in cooperation between the State and the Municipality of Oslo. I believe the government through this helps to raise efforts against juvenile crime and gangs. This is an area where I expect to see results in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2182	I thank you for the general response from the Council of State. I also know the information that was referred to in the State budget. But I think it's important for us who are representatives of the population, also to be able to address issues that we see are important and have a special interest. We have seen regular reports of car fires. It can be used to create horrors and to create a picture that the situation is more dramatic than it is, and it can be the opposite – that it can be trivialized, and that it is taken too little seriously. It is very important for the population and for us who are going to address these questions and do preventive work, to have facts to build on. So I would definitely ask the Council of State to follow up on issues that have special interest, and that you can get reporting on them, must be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2189	I understand the desire for information and increased knowledge about it, and I share that. This is more a question of the fact that within a short time limit it was not possible. It is also the case that when I, as Minister of Justice, give descriptions, there is a requirement for precision. That means that when there has been a car fire, it is not easy for me to tell who has lit the car until the case has been investigated. If the police don't have a very safe opinion about who it is, I shouldn't pass that formation on in any way either. We generally see this as part of a problem related to Oslo east and south. I've talked to the representative of Bohemia about many times, and I appreciate the commitment. When it comes to granting money, looking at laws and regulations, and getting a better knowledge of what's really going on, I'm dividing Bohemia's commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2196	I thank you for that answer, which was more to the matter. I believe that car fires are of great importance in the crime scene and in the sense of security for people, even if there are no injuries to them. It is of great preventative importance that some of them be clarified, and that some of them be taken for it, because it will be preventive against those who do that, and the population will feel safer. We had e.g. This summer – I think it was July 21st – a serious incident in a garage at Bjørndal, where, according to the media, there were dozens of cars hit by a car fire. There are also dwellings over the garage, so the residents had to be evacuated. I think these things have a very serious nature. The research promise would, of course, involve increased quality and cooperation, for example: between those conducting fire investigations and other Oslo police environments that may be better able to cope with the relevant environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2205	I'm taking this very seriously. The car fires we have had in Oslo, possibly elsewhere in the country, are very serious. We have experience from neighbouring countries that this has evolved into major problems – they have become part of a larger, rather scary picture that has taken place, and in our neighbouring countries they are very strongly linked to integration challenges. We have fewer fires, and so we also have a little bit of spinner basis to draw conclusions from them. But I think we can share the concern, because there's one thing we don't want, is to get a situation that we have in our neighboring countries, where car fires both trigger fear, demonstrations, counter-demonstrations and polarization in a society where it should be totally unnecessary. So we will follow closely, and we will also put in place the measures that are right to avoid the kind of situation you have in neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2215	‘The Council of State confirmed in the Stortinget on 7 November 2018 that the sentence ‘Earth use must reduce emissions per unit of production’ means, for example, that the unit for meat is the different species of meat; bovine, lamb, pig or chicken. The production of beef may take place with dairy cows or suckler cows. Milk production is more energy efficient than suckler cow production because it gives us both meat and milk. Does the State Council believe that it is in line with the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions that beef is produced with more dairy cows and fewer dairy cows than today?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2222	It is the third week in a month that the representative Lundtigen asks questions about this topic. I notice that the representative shows surprisingly great interest in the climate work in agriculture. I will try to answer clearly and clearly. Norwegian agriculture is to produce demand for it at all times, and that is the basis for producing it in Norway. It is a target that the emissions per unit of output are as low as possible, i.e. the emissions per kilogram of beef produced, per kilogram of lamb, per litre of milk, per kilogram of wheat produced, per tomato produced, per cucumber produced, etc. is as low as possible. Research at NMBU shows that when a given quantity of milk and beef is to be produced, i.e. the amount of meat and milk that consumers demand, the climate pressure is the same regardless of the combination of dairy cows and suckler cows used. Whether there are few high-performance dairy cows and many dairy cows, or more lower-performance dairy cows and fewer suckler cows, greenhouse gas emissions are around the same. I would like to make it clear once again that good agronomy is good climate work in agriculture, and that good animal welfare and high farmer's competence are also necessary to achieve the climate targets for the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2238	It is no surprise that I am interested in this. My interest in this started when we got a prime minister who could tell that it was more greenhouse-friendly to eat ribs than stick meat. There is misinformation, and therefore one must continue to provide public information in this area, which makes policy decisions take place on the right professional basis. What the Council of State now says is that greenhouse gas emissions are about the same whether there is high performance or low performance in dairy cows, given the same volume of milk. A report, issued on 9 November, was published today from Norway’s Environmental and Bioscience Universities, where a recent report says that moderate performance on cows’ milk is climate better than high performance when one sees milk and meat in the context. Why does the Council of State not take such scientific evidence into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2245	I might have hoped that the representative Lundtegen would also be there and raise his eyes a little and actually see the challenges we're facing. There are changes in the climate. I feel that the scepticism that the representative Lundtigen is presenting here repeatedly is not the same in the peasant organizations or in the farmer's. They see that something needs to be done to meet the changes that are coming in the climate, and they are interested in being involved and helping to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture. In the discussions and negotiations to be held in the future, until the agreement you are going to try to get in place – and I think it is entirely possible to get in place – the organisations are concerned about the measures to be taken to reduce emissions. That is why I am very pleased that the organisations and most of the farmers I meet are concerned that we should look at this, and that agriculture agrees that they must also contribute to reducing emissions. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2250	It's a pretty interesting technique here, the state council uses, when I ask, is viewed as not lifting its gaze. What I am asking for is the technical basis for the political decisions to be taken later. I am fully aware that the agricultural organisations will start negotiations on this issue on 20 December and be finished on 1 April, but any debate must take place on a technical, scientific basis, and that is what I have repeatedly asked for here. The interesting thing now is that the political leader of the Ministry of Agriculture is obviously not interested in putting the professional base at the bottom, a professional basis that we have been given a report on now, and which shows that the context is such that lower performances than the high performance overall result. The interesting thing is, what scientific basis does the Council of State have for its political function?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2255	Of course, you follow up and take the professional recordings that come with you. Yesterday I was in Vestfold and visited Count Biogas, where you are concerned about how to meet this. It collects food waste from all over Westfold and collects manure from agriculture in Westfold and uses it. Among other things, a new factory, the Green Shift, has now been established in connection with and in close connection with the Count Biogas. It is an industrial pilot plant house where green CO 2, bio-fertilisers from the factory, are used in the production of, inter alia, tomatoes and thus reduce emissions. It's possible to do a lot, and it happens a lot. Instead of doing what the representative chooses to do – I think it is important to look at and take with him the recordings that the representative is concerned about – one has to see what is actually being done. I think it's exciting. I want to tell the representative Lundtegen that he should take a walk down there and see how you work to reduce emissions and produce even more good, Norwegian food.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2263	Then the ordinary question hour is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-14.ana.ud118e2277	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
