ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e39	The representative Heidi Greni, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the Vestfold County, Kari-Lise Rørvik, now takes the seat. The representative, Bengt Fasterale, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e54	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Mossleth, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Steinar Ness and myself, I would like to propose a fairer and better express bus service throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e59	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e64	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Siv Mossleth and myself, I would like to make a proposal to protect, promote, support and increase the incidence of breast feeding.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e69	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after the proceedings of the Finance Committee, Case No. 1 and 2 have been completed and then carry out an overall vote after the examination of the case No. 3 and 4 at the end of today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16 until the current map has been completed. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e108	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Centre Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes, Red minute 5 minutes and Finance Minister 10 minutes. The President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to four lines in response to contributions from the main speakers of the parties, and that, following the intervention of the Minister of Finance, up to one line in response per opposition party, be given a total of six lines. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e121	I would like to start by thanking you for your very good cooperation with the other parties in the Financial Committee in completing the tax suspension for 2019. So even though the best thing for us politicians is to talk about the expenditure side, it's the decisions that are taken today, that finance what the different parties have promised their voters. In extending this, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the secretariat of the Committee and other staff of the Stortinget who will ensure that the Committee's work is conducted as it should be. I would also like to thank in particular for the cooperation between the government parties and the Christian People's Party, which has led up to a government budget for next year, and that is also the basis for the position that the committee is promoting for the Storting here today. After the budget negotiations at Stortinget, the main steps of the government’s tax regime are determined. Let me highlight some of the main measures: The size is in line with the government's proposal to continue to lower the general tax rate from 23 to 22 pst. This will make it more profitable to invest in jobs in Norway. The measure is in line with the tax settlement on Stortinget, for it was said that one should look at the future tax rate, in line with and in the light of international developments. By 23 pst. Norway has had the highest tax rate in the Nordic region, and if we have a rate that is not competitive against other comparable countries, Norway’s attractiveness is falling. We know Sweden has 22 pst. today and is due down to 20.6 pst. In 2021, so this isn't a race to the bottom, as some claim, this is an adaptation to the international situation, and we're still far from the bottom. At the same time, this is important for ordinary people in this country, because we redistribute through the step tax so that they with the least income get the least tax burden. The government's proposal to cut taxes on working capital is behind the majority parties. The property tax is a special tax for Norwegian owners that discriminates against Norwegians as compared to non-residents. There is a tax Norway is almost alone to have in Europe, a tax that many business owners, perhaps especially in the yard industry and in service industries related to the petroleum industry, have noticed well. Locally owned companies bottle their own equity in order not to permite employees, perhaps to have to go bankrupt, to keep the wheels running and to be able to change. Therefore, it is important that we now reduce the tax on shares and operating resources by increasing the discount from 20 to 25 pst. In this way, we ensure that goods in stock and ownership in business are not taxed as hard as they are today. The government proposed to cut the property tax for ordinary people who own a dwelling or a recreational home in the state budget. This is done by cutting the maximum per million rate by two units, from 7 to down to 5 per million. A mandatory reduction factor of 30 pst is introduced so that no more than 70 pst. the market value can be included in the tax base when taxing property taxes on people's homes in municipalities. At the same time, we're tightening up the rate of increase in property tax, now it's only possible to increase by 1 per million a year, down from the previous 2 per million. These measures adopted today by the Storting are just some of a number of measures that make Norway more competitive and facilitate the creation of more jobs in this country. With the tax arrangements adopted today, this government has reduced taxes by about 25 billion. kr since accession in 2013. Nevertheless, the transport budget has been increased by 75 pst., yet several patients are treated more quickly, and yet there are record few municipalities on the ROBEK list. After being down in a deep wave valley of high unemployment, we now really see that growth is coming up again, not just in those places in the country where there has been a decline – no, growth is happening all over the country and in all industries. It's a very happy development for the country, we're going to take it with us and make sure that it continues. In my opinion, not a huge tax bill is the way to do it. Collecting more money from people and businesses here to Oslo to distribute them again is, in my opinion, not just a costly intermediary. It prevents individual enterprises from investing in more jobs, in their employees and in the development of their own business. There are actually private jobs and ordinary people's money we're printing taxes on today. If we can make the necessary priorities, you don't have to increase taxes. If you think a little bit smarter and new, you can actually cut taxes while betting on well-being, as this government does. Finally, I would like to touch on two points which are being dealt with in the Chamber today. The first point is the introduction of a general electricity tax on power used to develop cryptocurrency. I'm glad it's a unanimous big thing that today joins this. In our view, it is not right that cryptocurrency, which is a very powerful business, should reap the same benefit as other heavy and powerful industries in this country. Where cryptocurrency is a digital currency that is not guaranteed by any central bank, but has a variable value based on supply and demand, the industry in Norway is a large part of the values it creates — and large employers. Cryptovaluta is more a speculative business, and it is known to be used as a means of payment by criminals and for tax evasion. Some media now report that during this year the extraction of cryptocurrency will require half a percent of the world’s total energy consumption, while at the same time it is estimated that 700 million people will not have access to electrical energy by 2030. Now there is no direct link between Norwegian electricity consumption and the number of people in the world without access to electrical energy, but when we hear that this activity corresponds to the electricity consumption of a larger and larger European country for every quarter going on, it may be possible to tighten up the benefits that are otherwise favoured by other industries and some parts of the country. Furthermore, it is important to point out that this does not mean that it becomes illegal or impossible to operate in the extraction of cryptocurrency in Norway. It simply means that those involved in the extraction of cryptocurrency have to pay the same as all the others who do general business in that country. The Committee has decided to provide the Government with some time-limits for action in this matter. The reason why this is technically complicated. It is not the intention of the settlement partners – I have not realized that it is the intention of any of the other parties in the committee – to hit the blockade technology or data centres in general. Only the force used for the extraction of cryptocurrency is requested subject to the general rate. The technology itself blocked is a technological innovation in which many actors are now working to see opportunities, including the state. On behalf of the Ministry of Finance, the Directorate-General for Taxation has investigated a possible model to implement the wishes of Storting, but it has not been consulted by the industry, and it has received some objections that are worth considering before the proposal is put into effect. As a result, the government has assumed that the general fee will come into force from 1 March, but with a slight fluctuation if the hearing takes longer, or balances need to be investigated further. In any case, it is the clear decision of the Storting that this should be introduced. The second point is the solution proposed by the majority in the Chamber today, and it solves the proposal of the Labour Party, which is subject to a legislative decision. Let me first take the majority's request. The request being made is an answer to a number of questions that have emerged. You enter here to update the law and expand the scope. For municipal mergers, the starting point is that the rules of the law of division may be exempted from the rest of the legislation in a merger process with the harmonisation of the issuing of property taxes by the different municipalities over two years, so that during that period they can converge the different rules and rates. The Property Tax Act does not contain a specific rule on community mergers, but a concrete legislative proposal was put forward in the Financial Committee, for which the Committee asked the Ministry of Finance to make a rapid and preliminary assessment. That assessment was received by the Committee on Monday. The proposal proposed by the majority today sets out some clearer guidelines for the design of the law. The majority believe that it is right that municipalities which are currently receiving large revenues from wind power, hydropower or petroleum plants should also have it in a merged municipality. However, that consideration must be balanced against the protection of ordinary citizens and businesses against excessive overnight tax increases. In line with the changes provided for in the Property Tax Act, where we have determined how quickly a municipal government can increase the per-million rate from one year to another, the provision applicable to merged municipalities must also ensure that residents and businesses cannot be exposed to large and sudden tax increases from one year to another. I look forward to the government returning to Stortinget with a bill based on this proposal as soon as possible, but also as thoroughly as necessary. I am therefore very surprised to see that the Labour Party is promoting a loose bill in the Chamber in the tax position. It's a serious way to run politics. Usually, a proposal for a request is made in which the government is asked to investigate and assess in order to return to Stortinget with a law which has been at the hearing, which is technically sound and which is compatible with the law in question. In any case, legislation has not been proposed in the last ten years on the basis of a loose proposal in the tax setting room. The working party departs once again from the line as a responsible and manageable lot. Their proposal raises more questions than it answers, and when it does, the Storting should not adopt it right above the table in that way. I bring up the proposal that the Right is promoting with the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e169	Then the representative Vetle Wang Soleim mentioned the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e176	Right-wing claims constantly in debates, reading articles and here in the Chamber that the local economy is quite so liberal. In next year's budget, the government will be released on the revenue base by lowering the tax ceiling on property. One should no longer be able to take 7 per million. It should be a cross of thought for the representative that even right-wing municipalities must increasingly resort to property taxes to get the ends to meet. In the last two years, Right-Handed municipalities have found it necessary to raise 155 million. kr more in property tax than they did in the past. Now I don't believe that right-wing politicians in e.g. Elverum has done this to plague its citizens, but to get enough money for the necessary services. What does Wang Soleim think is the reason?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e183	The municipal economy has been good in recent years. There are record few municipalities on the ROBEK list, and among others. in 2016 we delivered a record year. The property tax is a local tax that local government itself determines. We see today that there are many municipalities that are doing quite well without property taxes, which are doing quite well without imposing property taxes on ordinary people. It's completely possible. The steps taken by the government in respect of the property tax are not only a cleaning-up in the law, it is also to ensure that the trader gets more money back. We have cleared up a law that has been difficult to interpret in many ways, including in the courts. We're removing from next year's machine tax. This means that there will be more money left in each company to hire more and develop the company. What I would have been worried about if I had been municipalities and residents out there is that the Labour Party's bill here in the hall comes through, because it can lead to sudden tax increases, even from 0 to 7 per million overnight. It's a concern I'd have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e194	I didn't get any answers to what I asked for, so I ask again: Have Right-Handed municipalities introduced property taxes and increased property taxes to plague their inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e199	Then I replied again: the property tax is a local tax. The voters choose those who sit on the local council. But our goal is that there should be greater constraints on how much you can print in property taxes. Among other things, we have And we've done it by taking down the per million rate, we've done it by removing the machine tax, and we've done it by introducing a mandatory reduction factor. I hope, however, that during this debate the Workers' Party will respond to how in all the world they believe it is a responsible and manageable line to come up with solutions to the bill in a tax debate, which has not been done in the last ten years, and which can only lead to the merging of a municipality, so ordinary owners of housing and ordinary business people can get an increase from 0 to 7 per million overnight. It's a policy I'm not behind. It is very strange of a party that considers itself to be self-managing, to make such legislative proposals without investigation, without legal proceedings, without regulations and without consultation among those affected by the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e206	In the revised national budget this year, a new tax regime was adopted for non-resident workers. It is a scheme whereby non-resident workers can choose whether to be subject to ordinary taxation in Norway or to the new scheme. So one can choose the scheme that gives you the lowest tax for yourself. According to information provided by the Ministry of Finance, this implies a tax subsidy for foreign workers of more than 100 million. kr annually. This means, then, that Norwegian workers in the same professions with the same assumptions have to pay higher taxes than non-resident workers. What does the Right think is the logic behind Norwegian workers paying higher taxes than foreign workers in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e213	It is quite right that we have arranged and cleaned up a system that has been difficult to control, which has been difficult to verify, and which has been difficult to understand for many foreign workers. In the past, it has been the case that foreign workers themselves have had to report this to the tax authorities. Now the employer has to report this to them. What we've seen is that the regime that was contained a lot of reporting errors. It was a huge bureaucracy, you had to check this, and you saw that the share of errors in the submissions was very high. That is why – we had a hearing on this last year – we have considered the proposals that have come in from both the NHO and the LO, and there was a disagreement about where the rate should be. I think we have ended up with a pretty good compromise with a state of 25 pst. It is important that the Central Party also sees that this system cannot be viewed in concrete terms. You also have to look at whether there are arrangements that can be checked, whether it is possible to have arrangements that lead to less bureaucracy, and that really leads to this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e222	I don't think I heard the representative Wang Soleim mention the climate or inequality with one word in his post. I must say, I am quite surprised when we know that climate change and the growing inequality are one of the greatest challenges we face. Climate change should not be seriously questioned; the need to cut emissions is greater than ever. In terms of inequality, we see that the richest part of the population is subtracting 10 pst. of the richest owner of Norway now about 60 pst. of all assets. My question is whether the Right and the representative Wang Soleim believe that the charging system has a role to play in the fight against climate change and how the government will follow it up. And he thinks that the tax system should be redistributive, and how does he feel when the 0.1 pst. with the highest wealth in Norway has received over 300,000 kroner in tax cuts from this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e230	To take the last one first: half of all the personal taxes we have made during our reign have gone to people with income less than NOK 600 000. What is the biggest difference in inequality in Norway — which, just to mention it, is one of Europe’s least unequal countries — is whether you are in work or not. Then we have to have the line of work, and it has to pay to create new jobs and to be at work. I don't feel exactly that SV is on that track. In the case of climate, emissions are going down. We can see that. We deliver on climate in every budget. Whether the charging system has a role to play: Yes, so absolutely the charging system has a role to play. A very good example of this is for example: The electric car charges, where we see that the electricity car share in Norway is increasing enormously. There was also the charging system. You have e.g. a CO 2 tax on petroleum in Norway. It makes it pay for the petroleum industries to make their job more climate friendly. It is the most climate-friendly petroleum industry in the world, and I think that is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e240	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e245	Thank you to the Committee for effective cooperation in dealing with this matter. The Workers' Party will have a Norway where basic welfare services are funded by the Community. Kindergarten, school, health care and care are tasks that are best dealt with jointly. Many countries have opted for other solutions where people have to outsource themselves with high probabilities and insurance in order to use the same services. This leads to different offers and that the wallet determines the offer you need. It creates inequality and is the source of social unrest. We don't want that kind of society in Norway. In order for everyone to have equal opportunities and a satisfactory safety net if you can't provide their own income, we have the large fission layer. That's where taxes and taxes come in. When taxes and taxes are reduced, the fission layer becomes smaller. Cake for distribution is being reduced, and opportunities for good welfare services for all are being reduced – not for those who have the most, but for those who have the least. The Labour Party believes that we should have a tax system with a broad basis. This allows for relatively low rates and more symmetry between the different types of tax. Another important purpose of the tax system is to redistribute resources in society. In order to contribute to a fairer distribution, people have to tax according to their ability. The right-hand government gives tax cuts according to its ability. In the years of right-wing government, the thousands of people with the highest wealth have received 1.3 million dollars. kr in tax bill. It should not surprise anyone that the differences between people then increase. This year, too, we have been serving a budget for the rich. Taxes on working capital have been produced as a hand bill to small corporate owners. But increasing the depreciation discount on shares and operating assets is, in reality, a policy tailored to those with large assets – simply because large assets often consist of shares. The bigger the wealth, the bigger the tax haven. The working party is concerned about increasing inequality. Apparently, the government is also that, since they have notified a big message about the theme. But then it seems a little strange that the government will spend nearly 700 million budget dollars on such a tax cut. In the fall, there were fresh SSB figures showing a sharp increase in the differences between people. Now the only richest percentage in Norway owns more than half of all wealth. A little over 20 years ago, this one percent owned less than half. It's especially in the last five years that the share of the richest has shot speed. Then it gets smaller on everyone else. We don't want that kind of development. When the Workers' Party is concerned about increasing inequality, we go for solutions that work. A powerful instrument is the wealth tax. Those who pay taxes on wealth today have to pay a little more with our arrangement. But it's not just the rich that pull away — with high growth in their wealth — some also fall from the bottom. Workers with the lowest wages have had a particularly weak development after 2015. Increased differences contribute to a weakening of trust between people. Those who own the capital run away with a greater share of the cake, while the workers get less. It is unfair, and that is what we should focus on in this debate. The uprising in France is a clear reminder of how people react when they feel that someone is being assigned. Fortunately, Norway is not there. The working party wants more for people at work. A fairer distribution requires a fairer tax policy. It's really pretty simple. A fair tax policy is the most beneficial tax policy for people: the Nordics with normal incomes. Therefore, the Workers' Party reduces income taxes for four out of five Nordics. And listen, everyone from the positioning parties who have speech points saying the opposite: those who make less than 750,000 dollars a year get less tax with the Workers' Party. This means that the vast majority of the Nordics get more involved in the tax policy of the Workers' Party – most of the Nordics get it. They'll get increased minimum deductions – because it's fair. We're cutting the tax rate for those with low incomes – because it's fair. We suggest that lone minimum pensioners get $4,000 more per year – because we think it's fair. More to those who need it, means something more tax to those who tolerate it. In order to be fair, people have to tax by ability. With our setup, those who make more than 1 million. NOK in the year, pay a little more than NOK 600 in tax per month. They can take that. Nearly half a million Norwegians commute to get to work. Money has become more expensive under the right-hand government. Increased excesses before you receive tax deductions make it harder to live far away from where the jobs are. This means that almost the entire tax bill these people have received is just eaten up by increased taxes on commuting. Treasures don't make cake bigger, not even the government believes it. Both in the fiscal proposition for 2015 and in the answers to our budgetary questions this autumn, the Minister of Finance says that there is no basis for budgeting with dynamic effects of the proposals for tax changes. So it's not the cake that gets bigger, but the bank account of those with big assets. We've long had a balance between how capitalists and workers get a return on their efforts. It has been one of the major success factors in Norway. A fairer distribution than in many other countries makes Norway the society that many envy us. But we can't take this balance for granted. In order for workers to have their rightful share of the cake, more people have to organize themselves. A strong trade union movement that stands together gets more. Several organised workers' interests can be represented, and that is good. That's why we're increasing the union deduction by NOK 1000. New jobs have been created in Norway so far this year. It is due to low interest rates, responsible parties who contributed to a responsible wage settlement and increased oil price. The government and the majority should send a large thank-you card to the employee organisations. They have taken great responsibility over a difficult period in the Norwegian economy. But what does the government bring back? cut in the value of termination benefits for people who have to leave the job cut in holiday money for the free deduction from the tax deduction for the trade union quota because no price adjustment was made Cut off of the tax deduction for commuters Cut into the driving allowance Cut in travel and diet rates A few years ago, the leader of the Progress Party called out to Siv Jensen that the Norwegian model was in the way of the Norwegian people. Now it is clear that it is Finance Minister Jensen himself who stands in the way of Norwegian workers. The cut in travel and diet rates is a serious attack on one of the core issues of the Norwegian model: respect for negotiations. Travel and dieting rates are negotiated between the State and the employee organisations. It is the Minister of State who is responsible for the negotiations. The Minister of Finance must be very little satisfied with the work that the Minister of Finance has done, since she believes that the daily diet rates are higher than what is reasonable. The same is true of the budget-mates in the adjustment as the reason for taxing the foreign debt. Neither the Minister of Finance nor the majority in this Chamber today takes the negotiating result seriously when they introduce taxes on diets. It is to trick employee organisations into accepting compensation that is not real. It's about understanding the guiding principles in the Norwegian model, and then you don't do that. And let there be no doubt: the working party puts the workers first – always. I am therefore addressing the proposals which the Labour Party itself is promoting or being part of, and I would also like to say that in the vote today we are going to support the proposals No. 11, 13 and 14 from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e308	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e315	It would have been interesting if the representative Aasrud in his post could also mention a bill the Workers' Party promoted in the hall today. It would have been nice to get an answer to that, but it probably comes from the Workers' Party later. The legislative proposal that has been presented is irresponsible, and it is completely new. At least it's been over ten years since something like this happened. In its bill, the Workers' Party equates commercial property and power plants. In other words, it seems perfectly right that if three municipalities join together and one municipality has 7 per million of petroleum facilities, the municipal council can go in and give a tax increase from 0 to 7 per million on all other commercial properties in the new large municipality. For dwellings and leisure homes, it is said that you should not have a higher rate than the rate in the most populous municipality. So if the most populous municipality has 7 per million, or 5 per million from 2020, owners of housing in the less populous municipality have to get a tax shock without equal from the Workers' Party. Do you really think this is a good way to do it? Do you really think that this is a manageable way of ruling the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e322	What's alarming about what's happening in the hall today is that a government that's had the purpose of six years to get municipal mergers has not been able to figure out what's actually needed to be investigated when you're doing that kind of aggregation. What the representative Soleim here says, must fall on stone floor, and he must go back to his own government and ask why in the world you haven't done your job, which you should do when you go into that kind of proposal, like merging municipalities. You haven't thought it through. A government that chose to have an executive power, does not have the ability to make proposals to the Stortinget that take on what you actually have to take on when you implement that kind of proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e327	There are provisions in the law on division which are the starting point for how to proceed in the case of a municipal merger. But when the question has come up, and it came up now – I have not heard the Labour Party be very much on this matter before – it is so that we answer that challenge of making a request to the government, precisely because we make laws here in Norway by asking the government to come back. Then you have rules. You have a processor. You've heard all the parties. Those who may object have been heard. One has been able to talk with the municipalities, with the business community and with those who own dwellings in this country, and has had the opportunity to do a thorough legal work, which is also possible for the courts to use in the case of questions of interpretation. In any case, there will be interpretation issues with such a bill over the table, including: on how municipalities should merge in terms of the audit factor, valuation of the tariff base. The reason why we do this work in the government, in a department, is that all objections should be heard and evaluated. You have to have a pre-worker. It is the responsible way to govern the country, and it departs from the Workers' Party in this room today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e332	I did not understand that there was any question in what the representative Soleim said. But I would like to say to the representative: The matter has been known for a long time – at least it has been known for so long that a letter from the committee was sent to the Council of State to settle the matter. I believe that as case rapporteur in this case, it would have been entirely possible for the representative to contact the other parties in order to be able to put in place an agreed proposal. That hasn't happened, and so we have to make a proposal yesterday. If the representative had wanted another outcome in this case, it would have been quite possible to come to the Workers' Party and take a discussion. I record that it is not done, and that you run circuses here in the room on the proposal. I think it is a little premature when a joint letter has been sent to the Council of State to clarify the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e337	The Labour Party is increasing taxes and charges quite sharply for the next year. Even they're saying this number is a little bit over 10 billion. kr, i and separately quite a lot. At the same time, we know that the government and the majority of the population have reduced taxes by about 25 billion in the last five to six years. kr. So the working party keeps 15 of the government's 25 billion tax bills. That means that the Workers' Party's proposal for next year supports 60 pst. of the government's reliefs in recent years. My question to the Workers' Party is basically: Has the Workers' Party seen the light? Does not a colder and more cynical society no longer lead billions in tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e342	I can draw the attention of the representative, Bjørnstad, to the fact that in 2016 the Workers' Party was involved in a tax settlement. We thought that was reasonable, and neither have we, like the government parties, broken the tax settlement. One of the central things in the tax settlement was that we were going to go down to 20 pst. on the valuation discount for shares. We record that the agreement with the government parties lasted exactly one year, but we were involved in the tax settlement. We thought that was reasonable, and therefore the taxes have also decreased with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e347	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e353	Taxes and charges contribute to the financing of our community. Even for a liberal like me, that's the starting point. It is absolutely essential that citizens and businesses pay for the basic services they enjoy through a life, that we have a legal state, a court and a police force, that we have a defense of our country, and that we have strong welfare services that take care of us in the most critical parts of our lives. The difference between us liberals and others on the right, on the one hand, who want less state, but stronger community, and the socialists on the other, is that they have much less concern and respect for other people's money. Instead of looking with light and light for ways of improving, simplifying and renewing heavy public systems, they are equally looking for new opportunities to absorb increased taxes and taxes from people and businesses. It also marks the debate we are now having, and the documents that underpin what we are dealing with today. So the fundamental difference between the right and the left is whether most people are best able to take care of their own money, or whether the state of pure care should take care of them. What's a little subtle is that they also, under what they call the windiest government in the country's history, want to leave more of the people's funds at the disposal of this government. Thankfully, we do not. When the Progress Party went to the elections on a government change almost six years ago, we went to the election of a government that wanted to reduce the overall tax and tax level in the country. History so far, including next year's budget, shows that we have reduced taxes by almost 25 billion. kr. There has been an entirely correct medicine in the face of a working and business life in violent conversion, competition from neighbouring countries with a more moderate corporate tax and an oil decline that hit the country hard for some years, but fortunately, among other things. due to strong policies, the economy has not been permanently tracked. We're happy with what we've gotten so far, but we're going on. One of the most difficult taxes to defend is the non-social property tax, a tax that does not take into account how much the individual earns or has of value and that affects those who are out of work or have become a long-term pensioner with a long-term lower income. As of next year, municipalities that introduce property taxes can only collect 1 per million in the first year, and municipalities can only increase the tax by 1 per million each year, compared with 2 per million in the previous year. It was adopted on this day last year. This year, the majority of the population decides that the maximum rate may be charged to municipalities in property taxes in 2020, ranging from 7 to 5 per million. That means that those who are now the hardest hit by property taxes get a hand bill from the bulk of the population. Unfortunately, it's just the Progress Party that wants to remove the property tax law, but that's why we're also very pleased that we get by a majority on the Biggest of these changes. It's only 29 pst. that perceives the property tax as a fair tax, so we have at least with the people. Company tax goes down next year. Today, Norway has the highest corporate tax in the Nordic region. As of 2013, the tax is reduced from 28 pst. until 22 pst. Next year. It is a powerful tool to attract more businesses and investment to Norway. Of course, the level of taxation means something when choosing the location of the enterprise. Unfortunately, several opposition parties claim that Norway should continue to have the highest tax rate in the Nordic region. As we lower corporation tax, we make several changes to the tax rules for companies so that taxable profits are more consistent with actual profits, and we make it more difficult for multinational groups to move profits out of Norway. In 2014, the opposition said that the tax and tax reliefs to the government kept to a five-day period. About the same, they said in 2015 and 2016. Next year, when you add all the fives, we're going to have a normal, average family left with about $11,000 more a year than they did under the red-greens in 2013. Instead of dividing by the number of days, you can multiply by the number of years. During a growing period, a family will be left with between NOK 40000 and NOK 50000. It's money that really matters in the private economy of the individual family.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e381	The Progress Party is talking about lower taxes, but they say little about the realities of ordinary people. Most of the lower taxes on employee income in the year's budget are, of course, reflected in increased step taxes. In addition, the effect of a tax rate of 22 p.p., which reduces the value of tax deductions. When the deduction from interest, the deduction from being organised and the deduction from commuting is lower, it becomes more expensive to have loans, more expensive to be trade-organised and more expensive to commute to work. Not enough that the commuting allowance has become less valuable: in addition, the promotion party has made commuting more expensive by having to cover even before a given deduction has been raised to NOK 22 700. We in the Working Party give a deduction of NOK 15 000. We'll do that for the commuters. In addition, four out of five lower taxes on income are taxed by the Workers' Party. How does the representative of the Progress Party feel that the Workers' Party is easily able to give twice as much tax cuts to the usual salaries of the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e386	This government has provided tax reliefs of less than 25 billion. kr. We have done that because we believe in individuals in this country because we believe in families and because we believe in business in Norway. More than half of the personal taxes have gone to them with income of less than NOK 600 000, and an average family has got about NOK 11 000 extra to go on an annual basis. It is in stark contrast to the tax policy of the Workers' Party when they had power. Economic freedom creates personal freedom. The horror propaganda from the election campaigns in 2013 and 2017 has not made any progress. Norway is going well, unemployment is record low, growth is rising, and employment is increasing. The fear propaganda from the Workers' Party has not arrived.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e393	In the context of the revised national budget, a new system for the taxation of foreign workers was adopted. Both in the context of the revised national budget and in the Chamber here today, a justification has been used that with the existing system it was bureaucratically difficult to collect taxes. However, if that is the reason, one should ensure that all non-resident workers are required to enter the new scheme, and also that it is at a level that allows Norwegian workers to receive no higher tax than non-resident workers. Instead, you choose to set up a scheme where it is optional for non-resident workers to choose the scheme that provides the lowest tax – a privilege that Norwegian workers do not have. Why does the Progress Party consider it reasonable that Norwegian workers working in the same professions, with the same conditions, should have a tax of more than 100 million. kr higher than the foreign employee has?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e400	I think it is a bit symptomatic that the Central Party is drawing up the debates from the revised national budget instead of debating what is on the table today. That might mean that you have little new to ask about. It is correct – as the representative Vetle Wang Soleim answered the same question from Gülsvik – that this is about bringing the bureaucracy down. It's important to get some tax instead of no tax. Then it became a compromise on tax percentages. I'm sure you're going to evaluate this system gradually, to see if it's done as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e407	It was interesting to hear the representative’s flaming contribution to tax – it was simply strong arguments for having tax at all. But the last time I checked, private people don't build roads in this country, they don't build water and sewerage or provide good schools and a worthy care for the elderly. That may be the way the Progress Party will go, but this intense care for people's tax pressures is unfortunately limited only to the richest of the country. While the government and the representative boast of tax cuts, tax increases have been introduced for disabled people and for people who lose their jobs. VAT is to be increased year after year, as a result of lower deductions for most people. When the representative talks about the Progress Party believing in people, my question is: Does the Advance Party and the government not believe in deputies or people who lose their jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e414	We believe in the whole country, in all the inhabitants of Norway. When the representative Kaski starts his line by saying that it was a flaming contribution against taxes, that's not right. I opened my post by saying that even for a liberal like me, taxes and charges are absolutely fundamental to funding the basic services of society. It's true that we've made some changes. It has been to strengthen the workline. It's important to get people to work. And when you get to work, you get the benefit of the tax and tax relief that this government has invested in. An average family sits next year with about NOK 11,000 more than they did under the red-green in 2013. So I think it's special, this concern for those with ordinary incomes. When SV crashed, the tax also went up for them with ordinary income. It was based on an even higher level of taxation than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e423	The progress party likes to call itself the motorists' party, and it would be thought that they had a policy that was best for cars and motorists. So far, it seems that the car policy of the Progress Party is about avoiding the green shift, where more people are moving from fossil cars to zero-emission cars. This peaked yesterday, when the climate policy figure of the Progress Party on the way to the climate summit in Poland stated that the aim of the Progress Party is to remove the VAT exemption for electric cars – that is, to remove the tax advantages for electric cars – in order to avoid more tolls, in a situation where the Progress Party itself wants more major motorway expansions out there, thus helping us to increase the use of toll stations and more tolls that people have to pay. Can the representative of Bjørnstad, on behalf of the financial fraction of the Progress Party, cancel or confirm that it is the policy of the Progress Party to eliminate the benefits for electric cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e430	It is absolutely right that it is the Progress Party that is the car party in Norway. That is why we have also made sure that the total car charges have decreased by almost 2 billion. NOK since we took over in 2013. It's been a powerful effort by the government. But it has also been important from an environmental point of view, because when people can afford to buy new cars, emissions go down. It's the old diesel cars and petrol cars that have the most emissions. When charges are lowered on new cars, this means that the car fleet will be renewed. We've also seen that. There are other parties – parties with which the Green Party wants to cooperate – that want to increase fees next year, for example. hybrid cars. The working party goes in to increase the fees of a Mitsubishi Outlander hybrid by several hundred thousand dollars. I think it's the wrong medicine when we're facing a green shift. Then hybrid cars, among other things, have to be cheaper – not more expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e437	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e443	A lot is going well in Norway, and we're going to be very happy that we live in a country with great wealth, great opportunities and many highly competent people who do an incredibly good job every day to make Norway better. At the same time, we see some heavy trends that go in the wrong direction, and we as countries have to do something about it. We see increasing differences between those who have good incomes and those who have low incomes. We see challenges related to ensuring activity across the country, and we see challenges in the loss of Norwegian jobs in several industries. At the same time, policy choices are important — whether they are appropriate to address the challenges you face, or whether they, on the contrary, help to reinforce the problems. The centre party is engaged in taxing according to its ability. We are concerned that those with low incomes will have more to go with, while those with high incomes in Norwegian society, who have experienced huge tax relief in recent years, can contribute somewhat more to Norwegian society. They have good back to carry it. With our tax schedule for the next year, everyone with income below NOK 750,000 will receive tax relief. People with a normal salary of 500,000–600,000 kroner will receive a tax return of almost NOK 2000 with our tax treatment for next year. In addition, we have a reduction in charges. Our order is 1 billion. kr below what the majority parties add. In addition, we put in a tax haven by providing a CO2 fund for business transport, in order to facilitate a practical and good vehicle replacement system, in order to bring in new technologies, including: to strengthen the environment and climate. With the majority of people today, a number of groups in Norwegian society have increased the tax. This applies, inter alia, to: The commuters. There are hundreds of thousands of people commuting every day in Norway. Just from Akershus to Oslo, there's over 80,000 commuting every day. In addition, there are many people who live away from their families for longer periods of time and who work in occupations where there is pressure on pay and working conditions, who experience that everyday life is becoming more difficult to get involved, both in practical and economic terms. One can see that, through the decisions taken in connection with the last year’s budget, there have been 7 000 to 8 000 DKK in increased taxes for those living on set-aside. The daily commuters have also experienced increased taxes of several thousand kroner. We have also seen a charging policy that is both very unpredictable and affects Norwegian jobs. There has been a massive increase in charges on Norwegian domestic air transport, which affects a lot of those who are dependent on using aircraft in our long-range country, both people and business. We have seen an increase in the taxation of travel by increasing the VAT rate for several rounds. Last year, the food industry, Norway’s largest mainland industry, received a overnight tax shock that created challenges. The levy on non-alcoholic beverages will not be reduced by the majority this year. That means that very many of the companies that see blood red numbers, who work from day to day and try to maintain family-run businesses that have long traditions in Norway, do not get a handshake from the majority. On the contrary, charges are maintained, while the entirely unreasonable discrimination of foreign online shops through the subsidisation at the 350-kroner limit is maintained throughout 2019. Finally, the scheme for non-resident workers that the representative Bjørnstad mentioned earlier today concerned the revised national budget: that tax scheme is intended for the current budget to have the effect that non-resident workers receive a tax subsidy in relation to Norwegian workers of 100 million. kr. It's very unwise. We want to stand up for Norwegian interests and Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e462	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e467	It is no secret that the Central Party is not necessarily big supporters of the local reform that is taking place in Norway – and I don't think we should start a new debate between the Right and the Center about it, it has been going on for decades, to be completely honest. But we are now in a quite perceptive situation in this debate. The Workers' Party has promoted a legislative proposal that involves combining commercial property with, for example, a community merger – whether voluntary or not. power plants. So you say that a local workshop should be taxed in exactly the same way as a power plant. The second is that housing at a community merger can go from 0 to 7 per million in property taxes when the merger is a reality. This is done through a bill that was promoted as a loose proposal in the hall, without investigation. My question to the Centre Party is: Does the Centre Party support this proposal from the Workers' Party, and how will they describe the way in which laws are made?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e476	The answer to this is quite simple: No, we do not support any legislative proposal in the Chamber today, as the Labour Party has presented. But these are extremely important issues, because it affects large revenues for the municipalities that are to merge and that in some context are being coerced together by the majority that sits today. That is why it makes sense to allow time to look at its impact and to adopt legislation that will stand by in the future. It's a little surprising how the majority is dealing with this debate, because this is a question that has been raised by the opposition in the Financial Committee, and which the majority has not answered until today's debate, by going back to the back. I hope it becomes a good process around this, and that one facilitates good processes, which also includes those that are directly affected by the decisions that are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e483	I would first like to say a little bit about that story, because what the finance committee did was send a question to the ministry. We then got a long answer to all the complicated questions that need to be investigated before doing anything like that. Promoting a bill based on that answer becomes special, so I am very happy that the centre party in this room says that they disagree with the Labour Party in both procedure and proposal. The second is that although it is still long until 2021, we know that the alternative to the government that we have today – perhaps it will also be extended – is an Workers' Party – Centre Party-SV majority, which may depend on the Green Party and perhaps even Red Party. In its alternative budgets, the Labour Party proposes to increase the fees by 5.2 billion. SEK, SV by 9.4 billion. kr. I will not even say what the Greens are proposing. The representative, Gielsvik, may not tolerate that. My question is: Is it not up to the Central Party to sit in a government that increases the fees at the level proposed by their cooperation parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e492	If you want to have lower fees in Norway, you have to make sure to vote at the Centre Party. Its more votes are given to the Senterpartiet, the more policy goes in that direction. Unfortunately, the majority of people in Henrik Asheim are part of a massive increase in fees during the current period. It gets unfortunate results, not least for people with low incomes, who experience getting more expensive goods in Norway. It has also created major challenges for Norwegian business. I also think it is worrying that large sections of the opposition depend on the fee-bonanza that the majority in this Chamber has provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e499	It is interesting to hear the representative, Gülsvik, say that there should be a lower fee, a vote at the Centre Party. I don't think that statement stands, neither historically nor in the future. When it comes to charging policy, the Senterpartie has been thoroughly exposed during this charging period. Their pattern is that in the trade committees, they talk about increasing fees. In the Health Committee, the representative Kjersti Toppe goes to the chest to introduce a sugar levy in order to reduce sugar consumption. The Energy and Environment Committee talks about increasing the taxes on petrol and diesel for people who live in Norway and need their car every day, while the representatives Gülsvik and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum in this committee give the impression that they are cutting the fees, while their colleagues in other committees are talking about increasing the charges on fields by field for a long time. My question is, what is the real hold of the Center Party? Is it the attitude of the representatives of the trade unions, who want to increase the fees, as debt, or is it Geelsvik, who wants to put them down, who is the head of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e508	Those who adopt the Central Party's alternative budget are the Centre Party's large-scale group, which together submits a proposal for both tax and tax arrangements for next year. It can be read that, year after year, the Centre Party has proposed to reduce the fees compared to the massive increase in fees that today’s majority, among others driven by the Advance Party, have contributed. With our alternative state budget, people would get a lower electricity bill next year than they get from the Progress Party. With our alternative budget, a lower tax would be levied on non-alcoholic beverages, and one would remove the totally unreasonable tax increase – the tax shock – that came last year. With our alternative state budget, from a total pool at the Senterpartiet, a reduction in the taxes on petrol and diesel would occur next year. I understand that the representative Njåstad is trying to find arguments and looks with light and light both in the setting and in the media lookups, but these are the proposals we are making in our alternative budget, which is governing the policy of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e517	Would the representative like to comment on the proposal of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e522	Yeah, I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e527	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has addressed the proposals he referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e535	Climate negotiations are in the final stages of these days. The world shall agree the driving rules in order to achieve its climate objectives. So far, the picture is black. The objectives of the Paris Agreement are not sufficient, the objectives notified by the countries are at least not sufficient. We need to halve emissions in 12 years, but the growth of emissions in 2018 is growing more than in 2017, despite the fact that the world notices the dramatic consequences of climate change every day. At the same time, the news of protests in France, the yellow vests, around the world — large and dramatic demonstrations triggered by an increase in petrol and diesel taxes that has developed into a strong signal against increasing inequality, injustice, cut in wealth taxes and welfare schemes. I guess we could say that trust is low. This is related. We cannot solve the climate problem without small differences and high trust. People have to believe that they actually get better out of this huge upheaval that we're going through, and we can never create a fair world without poverty if climate change continues to grow. It is the poorest in all countries that are hardest hit by the impacts of climate change. Now, when we're going to discuss taxes and taxes, it's these two great tasks that politicians are set to do. Nothing can be more important than that. The tax system can and must be much more redistributive, and it must facilitate the rapid and necessary transition to the zero-emission society. But the government's budget will increase the differences. It is targeted tax cuts to the richest, those with large equity assets, while at the same time eliminating the environmental profile of taxes and charges. The wealth tax code in this budget alone will provide them with wealth in excess of 100 million. NOK 104 600 in a lower tax. The thousand richest people get, on average, NOK 179 000 lower property taxes. All of this illustrates how targeted the government's tax policy is towards tax cuts that benefit the wealthiest in society. At the same time, we know that the wealth in Norway is very divided. The 0.1 pst. with the highest wealth holds almost one-tenth of all wealth. This concentration leads to a continuation of the differences between generations and a strengthening of the class divisions, without the government being able to assume that the large cuts carried out in the property tax have a positive effect on value creation and employment. At the same time, most people notice little about reduced taxes. Kindergarten prices have actually increased by 250 kroner per month in the period 2013 to 2018, which is equivalent to 2,800 kroner per year for having one child in the kindergarten. Then the tax cuts are quickly eaten. In addition, a number of groups have lost on government policy through a series of petty cuts. In this budget, there is an increase in the tax burden due to the closure of the tax limitation rule and the increase in the tax rate for ordinary people when the deductions remain. After all, paid tax comes back to the population as better and cheaper welfare services. This is something that all serves, through access to basic well-being goods and through small differences. Therefore, SV has provided an alternative budget with a fiscal policy for distribution and for the environment. We propose a lower tax on labour for those with income below NOK 600 000, a more progressive income tax, the introduction of a more progressive property tax and the reintroduction of property taxes and the increase in environmental taxes. We know that the proposal for lower taxes on low and medium incomes creates room for increasing the taxes on harmful pollution. People most, the even worker, are going to go in plus with this proposal. And then we're going to make sure that everyone, including the richest of the country, of whom there are increasing numbers, contributes to the community, and then we have to reintroduce a fair tax on inheritance. Pollution and greenhouse gas emissions have a major impact on individuals and society, both here in Norway and in the rest of the world. Environmental taxes are one of the instruments we need to use to reduce environmental damage and to pay for the repair of pollution damage. The charging policy can be used effectively to reduce emissions. We also show that in our alternative budget. It's completely possible to combine redistribution with the environment, but then we can't give the biggest tax cuts to the richest. Then we cannot go against all the increased environmental taxes. Then we have to have a tax system that re-distributes and reduces differences, and environmental taxes that hit – a red-green tax system, a tax system for the many and not for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e558	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e563	I do, I'll take up the suggestions SV have alone, and what we have with Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e568	Then the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e575	We all know that SV is a member of a high municipal property tax on housing. SV also wants to increase the tax on dwellings with a model that will make it even more expensive to own their own housing, and it will make the most of people in cities. That they will in addition take away billions to road construction and make it more expensive to drive a car, and thus to live outside the cities, makes you have to ask yourself if SV at all want people to live in Norway. In addition, SV has previously called for the introduction of a national property tax. I would like to ask the representative from SV if this is intended to replace or in addition to the unfair municipal property tax, which many people already have to pay today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e582	It is interesting to hear the Progress Party, including in the previous speeches today, talk about the work line, especially when one is so reluctant to discuss a tax shift from work – lower taxes on work, the actual work line – and over to property and inheritance. And when we know that, among other things, The OECD and The Economist recommend increasing taxes on property and increasing taxes on inheritance because it will actually lead to a better tax system, you can wonder how the Progress Party believes that OECD and The Economist are wrong. Our proposal both provides for a fairer housing market by entering into and taking into account the fact that our tax system today rewards them with the largest and most expensive housing, and you get a tax shift where it actually pays to work rather than inherit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e589	I think most people have understood that SV wants to tax both owner-occupiers and company owners hard, so that instead of being able to develop the companies to create even more jobs, they would have to pay more taxes to the state. It is sad to say that, but the consequences of SV's policy are therefore fewer jobs, which the unemployed should also notice. But since SV thinks it's so easy to impose taxes on housing on the inhabitants without taking into account the debts or finances of those living in the dwelling, I think SV should at least be able to answer a simple question: does SV really understand that very many people are already struggling to pay the property tax today, and that these might get even worse with an interest rate increase? And can SV agree that, among other things, because of these people might make sense to reduce and gradually remove the property tax? Or support the SV Workers' Party's proposal here in the Chamber today, where the property tax can be greatly increased and suddenly?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e596	Both in a wide range of debates and through questions, we have tried to figure out the number of jobs created by the cuts in the wealth tax that this government has implemented. Because when the representative of the Progress Party says that, with the SV's policy, there will be fewer jobs, he must at least be able to respond to how many more people are created through the cuts in the wealth tax. We have made – from the Ministry of Finance – very fine distribution tables, which are within our alternative budget. The representative may go in and look at it. There it is illustrated, with colors and the whole, distribution tables that show that most people come out in plus our proposal, even when you include the housing tax, because it reduces the income tax for most people, the ones with the usual income here in the country. Then we believe in local democracy, we believe in the local politicians, also from the Progress Party, who introduce property taxes locally, because they see that this is what is needed in their municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e605	The government lowers taxes so that businesses can create more, and so that a normal family now receives NOK 11000 less in taxes each year than in 2013. On its side, SV participates in NM in hoping for the best possible amount of people's hard-earned money. They're proposing to raise the tax burden by 21.7 billion. kr, of which SEK 9.5 billion. kr are increased fees, which are levied independently of income, and mostly for them by at least. SV proposes to lower the deduction and increase the rate of the extraordinary property tax. It would provide better conditions for non-residents than for Norwegian enterprises. But not least, there would be 49,000 social security and 300,000 pensioners increased tax. These are people who have contributed to the construction of the country, they have been spinning and saving and are happy to sit with a paid-down dwelling, but with low income. How can SV believe that sending a tax return to the country's social security and pensioners will give them more security and well-being in everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e614	I refer again to the distribution table in our alternative budget. It probably would have been interesting for more representatives, because it shows that every year since this government took over, we have given bigger tax cuts to people with low and normal incomes, bigger tax cuts than this government. It is good to hear about NOK 11,000, but SV has repeatedly suggested higher tax cuts to people with ordinary income – most people. Then we'll tax them with the high wealth. And I don't think it's so bad that people sitting on a 1.2 million fortune. kr, pays taxes on wealth. The ones with 1.2 million. kr i wealth receives increased tax with SV's proposal. It's a fortune. I believe it is right that they contribute to the community, and that they contribute more than the government of today adds up to. It's interesting to make fun of the fact that most people get a slight increase in child's health, while you think it's completely hairy that people with 1.2 million. kr in wealth shall receive an increase in tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e623	I notice that SV still believes that Norwegian jobs should be taxed harder than foreign jobs. What Kaski doesn't mention from his table is that those with the lowest income get more in tax. Those with less than 150 000 in income also receive increased taxes in total. So this means that the insured and also more pensioners in the country will get increased taxes with SV. Let me ask the representative something else. One of the SV's allies, the Senterpartiet, has followed the government's reduction in corporation tax and property tax. They often support the government when we propose lower charges. At the same time, they say no to a green tax system where the polluter pays, and in many areas they will make it cheaper to pollute. If Kaski had to choose, would she have chosen the budget of the blue-green government or the centre party – a blue-green budget with several climate instruments or a centre party budget where it would be cheaper to pollute?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e631	I am not worried about future government negotiations between SV and the Center Party. We will certainly find a budget that will be more redistributive and more climate friendly than this government has implemented. I do not think this government should be so proud of its budgets, nor of the environmental profile. So we are in a situation where we have a projections for greenhouse gas emissions in Norway; they need to be reduced by 13 pst. by 2030, it should have been 50 pst. Then it is not very impressive when the government and government representatives come here and boast of it. Then I also notice that the Central Party's alternative budget has a significantly better redistribution profile than that presented by this government. So we must, as I also stressed in my article, succeed with little differences, that most people believe that they get better out of that climate change, and that they get better out and in plus when we go through such a transformation of society. This government does not take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e638	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e643	I did not participate in the budget debate last Monday, for various reasons, but I followed parts of it online. The debate that we are witnessing today, too, is basically, like it on Monday, very positive. Clearly, there are political differences in Norway, but these differences are actually quite small. We have to try to remember that. I agree initially with the rapporteur on behalf of all the government parties. Today we are going to debate taxes and taxes, and there will be divided opinions on many things. Even among the government parties and the Christian People's Party, which make up the settlement partners, there are shared opinions about some elements. Within the parties, too, there are shared opinions on the issues. That's the great thing about being elected to the people -- we're different. We go into a party, become part of a team, and accept that our opinions get both impact and loss. In the government, too, four parties are going to negotiate a budget. A lot of people get through, but a lot of people would like to see things different. That's politics. But let's not overdramatize the differences between the lots and the blocks either. We are going to discuss both the sugar tax and the CO 2 tax, and we are going to discuss the property tax and the totalization fee. We're going to talk about tips, diet and travel allowances – and we'd like to talk about crypto and financial taxes as well. But we should not lose perspective, and I therefore allow myself to lift into the Chamber what happened in the City Hall two days ago – where several of us, including the President and the Minister of Finance, participated – namely the speeches from the Peace Prize recipients. We must not lose sight of our political disagreements in this country that we live in an extremely good country – the best country in the world in very many ways. Regardless of who controls, we will work to ensure that Norway remains among the very best. This was a good country to live in under Jens Stoltenberg, and this is a good country to live in under Erna Solberg. It's important to recognise it. Our community is built on trust. There is a high level of trust between population groups. Even though someone makes a bigger point that they'll take the whole country into use, they also know that all the other parties actually care about the whole country as much as they do. Fortunately, our society is so strong that we tolerate strong political debates. Disunity is good. We show through debate that it is also possible to have a community of disagreements. In many countries, such disagreements, or disagreements, are completely impossible. Regrettably, the stories of the Peace Prize winners are not unique. War, conflict and intolerance bring countless victims. Nadia from the Jesidi people told us about the brutality that we have unfortunately seen elsewhere in the world. Denis from Congo told us about episodes that we know are happening elsewhere in the world. I'm glad that this government, of which my party is part, meets the goal of 1 pst. for assistance. It is a powerful signal of our values. It's clear it costs money, but it's worth it – of course it's worth it, because we also have to take our share. One of the most important things we can do in Norway is to fence around the community, about our values. Of course, we should promote Norwegian business, both in Norway and abroad. But it's not money to define us as people. We must be happy with the trust society we have in Norway. The Norwegian people tolerate both tax relief and tax increases. We tolerate the debate on taxes on wealth and that it is lowered while the CO 2 taxes go up. This is not necessarily the case in other European countries, as we have seen in France during the past few weeks. When the Left joined the Solberg government at the beginning of the year, we did so with a clear objective. It was helping to make the government greener, smoother and more social liberal. We did this because we knew that we could deliver more in government than in Stortinget. Good negotiations at Jeløya provided a forward-looking government statement that turned the government's policy into the centre of Norwegian policy. When I got involved in politics, I did it because I wanted a brighter Norway. I wanted a Norway that took care of those who needed it, who showed close love for those who suffer, and who enable people to make their own decisions. The individual was always in the centre of my mind, but what I was concerned about was the ability of the individual to unfold in a community. That community is built from below, in the church, in the mosque, in the library, on the factory floor or in the canteen, and we politicians are to be involved in laying the foundations of this very community. I am proud that my party has taken steps into the government, that we have submitted a comprehensive budget. It was right to make Norway a more relaxed society. That we have entered the government, is already noticed. The budget negotiations and cooperation with the Christian People's Party in recent years have shown that together we find good solutions on the civil side. I therefore have great hopes that the Christian People's Party and the government will come together after investigations and negotiations, and I think it would be good for Norway if we had a secure and predictable government with a bourgeois majority rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e681	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e686	Organised working life contributes to a serious working life, and the more skilled workers, the harder it is for unprofessional employers to dump wages and social rights. The level of organisation is declining. It is unfortunate and will in the long run undermine our well-functioning tripartite cooperation. The working party wants the highest degree of organisation possible. That's why we're increasing the union deduction by NOK 1000. In the Jeleya platform, it says: «The Government recognises that many workers choose to be unorganised.» If we look up the word'recognizable' in the dictionary, we find the following definitions: 'hell, prize, value, applaudes'. Why does the Left Party salute, prizes, values and applaud the fact that many workers choose to be unorganized when we know how important an organized working life is?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e702	I am the son of a nail factory worker who worked at a nail factory in Nydalen. He was both a member of the LO and a trade unionist. And not only did he work there, I even worked there several summers, so I told the LO manager that with my own hands I have lubricated these iron machines with machine fat. It is clear that when you – on the floor – ate the food package with the same hands and went under the same parole as LO as a youth, I know this well on the body itself. I've chosen a different party as an adult, but we recognize, of course, a high degree of organization; that's good. We also recognise tripartite cooperation. We have also not contributed to lowering the trade union deduction. It's probably to mark held at the same level as it was, but I think it's also a signal that the government doesn't want to weaken this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e709	It's interesting to hear about the representative's background, and I recognize it. The left is known in trade union context for having a union hostile policy because of several issues that I am not going to get into here. I hear that the representative from the Left believes it is important to have an organised working life and a high level of organisation. The Workers' Party is pleased about this. Research from the Institute for Societal Research shows that increased trade union deductions increase the level of organisation. When there is then a clear link between the size of the trade union deduction and the proportion who chooses to organise themselves, why won't the Left increase the trade union deduction? Or is it that the Left has other measures that will increase the level of organisation? In this case, what kind of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e718	I thank you for the recognition of the background. I would also like to mention that when I entered the finance committee, my first visit actually went to the LO manager. I think it was a signal that we were just stretching out our hand to LO and to trade unionized. For the Left, it is also important that we be able to equate those who are trade unionists, with those who are self-employed, that we also have to take care of them. Because what we know is that their pension rights and their rights have not been given the same focus otherwise. But once again, of course, we don't want to lower the right to deduct the fee to various associations. We want to keep it. It's also a clear signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e729	It was interesting to hear about Raja's background. I can only repeat that my grandfather has worked at the same factory in Nydalen as Raja's father. But what's interesting today, because not many people work at the Spygerverket anymore – it was once the largest industrial workplace in Oslo – is that the largest mainland industry we have in Norway today is the food industry, among other things. with important jobs in Oslo. We have Freia, Tine and ASKO – we have several large jobs in Norway. With the tax shock of a go through the budget agreement last year, a Norwegian job was jeopardized. And so the shock increase on non-alcoholic beverages was continued in this year's budget. Does not the representative Raja, with its history and background from industry teams, see the importance of caring for Norwegian industrial workplaces and changing charging policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e738	History shows how small and dense the Norwegian society is, and how small it really is. Yes, I'm taking this seriously. I think some of the previous speakers have pointed out that the total, total tax and tax credits under this government and the government we have supported as a cooperative party have dropped by 25 billion. kr since you took over. So now you've restored this for chocolate from 2019 by saying it's price adjusted. I also see that the government has put down a party sample that will come back and deliver something on the Görlsvik. In the case of sugar-containing drinks, the government says you'll get back to it in the 2020 budget, so we'll wait in suspense.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e747	I would like to thank the representative for his contributions. That was interesting, even though he might not have come up with the details of the tax proposition and the tax position that we are going to deal with today. My question relates to the petroleum tax system. Now it's part of the subject matter that we're dealing with today. There is no suggestion from the government about changes in it, but there is one thing that SV and Left have been shoulder to shoulder in a long time: the need to move from a tax system that is largely built up for a different time, a time when we should have increased investment on Norwegian pedestal, a time when we wanted a great diversity, while we are now entering a phase that is more about degradation, and about dealing with climate change that we are facing. So my question is, will the Left work to ensure that the government negotiations get an impact on a review and change of the petroleum tax agenda?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e757	In the beginning, I said that I would end entirely with that case rapporteur, Vetle Wang Soleim, explained to, I felt that he spoke on behalf of all the government parties, so it would be a little strange if I were to repeat the exact same thing. We are united behind the budget that has been presented. In the case of petroleum resources and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, I should like to say that now the government parties are going to negotiate this, and I think the Left's view is well known. The left and SV have a large community of values that they share, especially in the climate field, but also in other areas, such as: social justice, cohesion policy, assistance, etc. I will carefully say that some of the most important things in those negotiations will of course be to bring down the greenhouse gas emissions both here at home, in Norway, and also to put out the course for the world, and it is clear that looking at our petroleum resources, how we are going to tax this, and the arrangement for that, will be part of those negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e766	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e771	‘Skebnland meeting’ was designated as the word of the year for 2018. Sylfest Lomheim, former Director of the Language Council, disagreed. He believed that the word «climate» sums up the year better. In 2018, the heat records were in line. In Norway, we lost half of the crops. Sweden, Greece and California had forest fires out of control. Then came the fall, and in Norway we got the flood and the race. Climate change is here now. No one knows how much they'll cost us in the long term, but we know what's going on to prevent them. We, the Greens, think most in Norway want to contribute, but it has to be easier. The price of a journey or a commodity must reflect what it actually costs for the world. The green choices have to be simpler, cheaper and more pleasant, regardless of whether you live in the village or town. We can do that through fiscal policy. Over the last few weeks, the demonstrations of the yellow vests in France have been used by some to justify that we cannot introduce climate action, such as: raising fuel prices. But this is completely historyless. It is not a green policy that creates social differences. The yellow vests are the result of many years of frustration in the French people over ever-increasing economic differences. The diesel charge was dropped, which was requested to float over. Norway has long been a society with small differences. It takes a lot of effort to keep it that way. Instead of pushing the poor ahead of us as a rhetorical armor against climate action, we should strengthen social redistribution policies and enable everyone to help solve the climate crisis. Here we all in the same boat. While the government cuts the taxes for the richest, we target in the Green tax havens for those who have the least. We're increasing the deduction by over NOK 15000, we're starting the step tax at a higher level, and we're increasing the rates at the highest steps, we're introducing a step tax on wealth, so that with the highest wealth they have to tax the most, and we're removing the tax discount on shares. The polluter pays is a fair and correct principle. The Greens are proposing to increase fossil fuel taxes, but the increase – follow here – is not used to reduce taxes on the richest or to increase income for the state. We distribute them again to the population, just as much to each, so you go in plus if you're a little bit more environmentally friendly than the average. This is based on a model from Canada, and unlike in France, the tax increases in Canada have been welcomed. This is in stark contrast to this government, which has reduced fossil car fees by over 3 billion. kr, and a representative was recently out and said that they would remove the VAT exemption for electric cars. Who does the government think they're wondering, when they say they're going to achieve the climate goals Norway has committed itself to, by cutting fossil car taxes and increasing them on electric cars? The Greens also make the sustainable choices easier. We remove VAT on fruit and vegetables, on repairs and on public transport. This is important in people's everyday lives. That's how everyone gets cheaper fares, including those of us who can't afford either a driver's license or their own car. While we in Norway have used the autumn to follow the Christian People's Party's route choice minute by minute, the European Commission has created a new climate strategy: it adds up to 70 pst. the decline in EU energy imports in the years to come. These are the countries that are buying Norwegian gas today. Just in front of our nose is now a Norway that needs to go through major changes, and it quickly. But Norway is rich in resources, knowledge and trust, and we can manage this transition if we want to. Taking care of the environment is, after all, taking care of ourselves. A stable climate provides food on the table, safe roads, stable power supply and works along the coast because the fish do not walk northwards due to warmer seas – also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e798	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e803	I would like to address the proposal that the Greens and Greens have together with the Reds.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e808	The representative of Una Bastholm has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e815	In the vote, the Green Party is occupied by entrepreneurs, owners of small businesses in the start-up phase, and will have more green jobs. It is affordable, but the question is whether the policy is linked. If the Green Party believes that we need more entrepreneurs, why does the party move towards improving the conditions for those who are striving to create their own jobs? For example, you go. against the government’s proposal to improve pension-saving schemes for self-employed people, which aim to reduce the risk and uncertainty of starting up on their own. Many entrepreneurs are innovative, employ new technologies and create new green jobs. Why will the Green Party make it harder and more uncertain to be a founder?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e820	It is true that the Green Party has a very offensive policy to enable more entrepreneurs to start companies, and in particular that more green entrepreneurs should be able to get through and get through in the phase where they have founded and have a product or service, but it is not yet ready for the market. We have several things in our state budget to do this: we improve the tax deduction scheme for investments in start-up companies. We're changing the share and option taxes to make it easier for start-ups, and we're doing a number of other things to help boost business in a transition, because we're concerned that although we're going to have strong measures to cut emissions and help the business to make those investments, we also have to follow it up with an active business policy for green conversion. This is reflected in our alternative state budget, as has been said, with a number of measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e825	Yes, but the unfairness of security for well-being and pensions is not something you would like to improve. One question is: The Greens say that they want a diverse and decentralised industrial structure, but at the same time very large increases in petrol and diesel taxes are proposed. Does the Green Party think it is a good signal to families and businesses around the country, who need the car every day, where there is neither tram nor bus every ten minutes, and where the electric car has not become a real alternative? Have you thought that the Environment Party actually punishes discriminating jobs and people living around the country – decentralised – and that you have a policy that is essentially the coin of urban life?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e832	It is true that the Greens are actively using fiscal policy to bring about the green shift that the Stortinget has decided we want. All the time Norway has just now just one policy to cut one third of what we have already committed ourselves to, and a much smaller share of what we should have committed ourselves to, I believe that any other party that attacks the parties that actually introduce or propose measures to cut emissions should provide other alternatives that cut corresponding emissions. Because it's not an option not to get to this change that's needed to save the world, freedom and well-being and save the opportunities for those who come after us. When it comes to gas prices, I gave a preliminary statement in my article that we are dividing the increase in fuel taxes by what is called a KAF scheme, i.e. a climate and carbon tax for distribution, according to the Canada model. I encourage the representative to get into it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e840	I will not wonder if the Environment Party's representative lacks a sense of reality, but in this case it could be tempting. In its main comment and in this article, the Environment Party shows that they are willing to go far from taxing ordinary people from choosing how they will live their lives. Outside Oslo, e.g. in the South where I come from, there are many who could not have moved or worked if the representative had got it the way she wanted to. Does the representative think it is social to tax ordinary people in such a way, and how does the representative think to compensate for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e847	What's deeply unsocial is a tax policy that makes you spend a total of $10 billion. kr on tax bills that go most to the richest, because they do it flat instead of targeting the tax. Those with the least in Norway – or the average – are better off with the Environment Party of the Greens' policies. All with less than 600,000 kroner of income will get better out of our tax treatment. Rather, the unfair thing is to use the greatest means of action we have for redistribution, and to give tax credits to those who have the most. We need to use the charging policy to achieve the conversion that we have committed ourselves to in Stortinget and to which the representative has committed himself. If you do not want to do so, you have to contribute with other alternatives. We're now facing a reality out there where we can't close our eyes and wait. Norway has committed itself. We should go to the United Nations and say we should do even more. The environmental party of the Greens adds up to 60 pst. Cut forward by 2030, and we do that because we take seriously that we have a climate crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e854	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e859	In the fall, many people have taken advantage of the fact that the 1980s Dynasty series is back on Netflix. But it's not just on the TV screens that dynasties do comeback. That power and wealth come together in families, and that privileges are inherited, is becoming more and more common in Norwegian society. A short time ago we could read in the magazine Capital that the 400 richest have increased their wealth by impressive 14 pst. the last year. This group, which is a little bit of bone, that can fit into one and the same Christmas concert, has a total worth of 22 pst. of all the assets of the equation in all the countries of Norway. And while dividends have grown to record levels in recent years, the real wages of ordinary people have remained almost silent – they have fallen for the low wages. When inequalities increase and the economic elite increases its power and influence over the Norwegian economy, it is a democratic problem, we believe. Therefore, Red proposes a dynasty tax, which should prevent wealth from being accumulated at the top. There is a tax package that consists of three things: first, a progressive property tax that allows those with particularly large assets to tax more, second, an increase in the tax on labourless income, namely the dividends that the assets throw off, and last but not least a fair inheritance tax with a high net income of 5 million. kr, so that there is no family cabin or enclosure taxed, and there those who inherit more than 100 million. kr, contributes more to the community. With the proposal for a dynasty tax and increased taxes on high incomes, Red will reverse the entire total Siv Jensen tax cut of 28 billion. kr, and we do that in order to afford more sharing. We show with our budget that it is possible to finance more jointly without the large majority having to pay more in taxes than they do today. Four out of five Northmen make less than 600,000 dollars a year. They don't get one more penny in taxes with Red's proposals. The waiter is up to 1 million. kr, it's about a couple of thousand patches a year, but the richest percent, those that have over 2 million. kr in income, gets increased tax with our policies. It is the same group that has had the highest wage growth, which has the greatest wealth, and which owns the most shares, and they have room to contribute more. Unfortunately, what we are bringing is not very radical. It corresponds to the level of taxation that was under Jens Stoltenberg in 2013. But with a tax policy as carefully as it was then, it is possible to have large welfare reforms that benefit both poor and rich, such as free dental care, increased child welfare, better walking, bus and track, free kindergarten for five-year-olds and enhanced municipal welfare. Red is not just the lot of increased taxes for the rich. We are also in favour of tax relief and tax relief, but in a completely different way than Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen. Where they spend 550 million. kr on tax gifts to people on the stock exchange, we use the same thing to cut the tax for people who live in wreckage while they are at work. It's a total cut of 1.3 billion. kr in the tax on diet and diet, end-of-life allowances, trade union quota and for single dependants. Then we see that flat fees that do not distinguish poor and rich are unsocial. At the same time, some very central environmental taxes need to be increased, such as the CO 2 tax. But in order to avoid a general increase in charges, we cut VAT at the same time. We remove all VAT on repairs, and we cut VAT on, among other things, public transport. However, with regard to the environmental profile of taxes and taxes, there is one part that means more than anything else, namely the petroleum tax system. Today, the Climate Risk Committee will present its report, and they will not say anything about petroleum taxes and kerosene fusion because the mandate explicitly excludes it. Therefore, Red proposes to start an investigation into this part of the tax system, on how it affects the Norwegian economy and industrial structure, to pay out tens of billions of dollars in exploration subsidies each year. We need this knowledge in order to ensure an active industrial policy that builds up new green industries and provides a fair transition in Norway's countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e879	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e884	Red has for the first time since they entered the Stortinget, created an entirely alternative budget – congratulations on it! Red is probably the only ones that can be congratulated. Fasitivity is clear: increased tax on income of 15 billion. kr, increased corporate tax of nearly 3 billion. kr, increased tax on financial activities, increased property tax of nearly 11 billion. kr, dividend tax increased by more than 6 billion. NOK and reintroduction of the inheritance tax. It will be more expensive to work, more expensive to hire people, more expensive to invest and more expensive to own Norwegian businesses. The result will be a crazy taxing of those who will create jobs. It's in line with the Red's program, so they're going to have the honour to stick to their principles, but what's interesting is that the Workers' Party can depend on this party. Then my question is to the representative of Moxnes: Is the increase of 37 billion. kr a level we can expect in their annual alternatives in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e889	We include it in taxes that are necessary to finance well-being for the best for most people in Norway, to avoid dramatic cuts in the local economy, to ensure that people who have poor advice can get paid for the dentist. We cut the price of kindergarten for families with children, and we cut the tax and VAT for most people, but it increases something for those who earn very well, who have great wealth, and who live not least on jobless income. It's true, we think, that those who live by the work of others, who live by others doing the job for them, by the value of others, also contribute back to the community. The money they pay in taxes, among other things, goes to finance new roads, new bridges, new ferries, new tunnels – infrastructure on which businesses are completely dependent in order to get the goods out to the market and the inputs into their factories. That's what they do, and we need them to contribute more to the community – not less, as they do with today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e894	When the representative Moxnes describes his tax increases as necessary, we should be able to put our trust in their continuity in this. In that case, it could correspond to tax increases of over 140 billion. kr for a normal four-year period. I hope that someone in the Workers' Party might want to ask some questions about this. It will be exciting to see when my trip is over. In the last year, 56 000 jobs have been created. The freedom is on its way down, and the activity is on its way up. In such a situation, Norwegian enterprises need predictability and more help to do more of what they have done. Looking at the situation we have today, at the tax increases of the representative of Moxnes, I have to ask: how in every day is Norwegian business going to create jobs if these businesses and individuals are to be emptied of capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e901	Here we might have to learn a little bit about basic tax policy. We increase the tax on dividends on shares, which is the non-unemployed income – dividends taken from the enterprises. It's a good idea to tax because these are companies with profits, solid profits. We're also increasing the tax on profits in companies, i.e. corporate tax. It's also only going on profit, not on companies that don't have any profits. There is demand out there that is necessary to ensure jobs throughout the country, that people can demand goods and services. Then it makes sense to strengthen the position of workers so that they can negotiate increased wages and more power and can also demand more goods in the market. So we support being at work, and not least being organized, and increase the tax on what's unemployed income for those who own capital and live by the value of others. It's back to the tax level we had in 2013. Very well known private businesses were found in Norway also when the red-greens crashed the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e906	The representative of Moxnes is talking a lot about reducing inequality. In my home town of Kristiansand the property tax is very high, and it is only the Progress Party that fights to liquidate it. We have examples of minimum pensioners who have to sell the house they've lived for 40 years, survivors who have to leave the family home, and others who are struggling to get the ends to meet because of this unsocial and unfair tax. Does the representative of Moxnes think that this contributes to more or less inequality?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e911	The property tax does not take income into account. It should. The law should be amended. Until that happens, Red fights with beaks and claws, around the country, for the greatest possible deduction, so that those who have the largest dwellings will pay and not the most people. Here in the city, in Oslo, pays one of four property taxes. Three out of four don't. We saw last week that Oslo's richest now sues the Municipality of Oslo because the poorest do not pay taxes, as the rich do. It says that they have succeeded with a very real property tax in Oslo, all the time the property tax law is the way it is. But, of course, we do not want to increase taxes that go wrong. We cut the fees that go wrong. We don't give any tax increases for those who have normal income, but we increase the tax for those who make over 1 million. kr, whose assets exceed 10 million. kr, to get more money to fund common well-being for people around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e917	In its alternative budget, red has made a number of proposals for changes to the government budget for next year. But in one area, I cannot record that Red comes with a proposal for a change, and it is in the scheme that has been introduced for the taxation of foreign workers. Foreign workers in Norway may choose the type of scheme to which they are subject: either the tax to which Norwegian workers are subject, or a separate scheme for non-resident workers, which according to the Ministry of Finance estimates provides a tax subsidy to non-resident workers of 100 million. kr. Norwegian workers have experienced both tax incentives in some areas and pressure on pay and working conditions. Of course, one should also accept foreign workers in Norway, but does the representative from Red think it is right that Norwegian workers should be taxed harder than foreign workers in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e922	We've already taken that up in Stortinget before. We believe that this is unfair and distorting. It is strange that a government that says they are in favour of fair competition is in favour of measures that give rise to unfair competition and increased pressure on Norwegian pay and working conditions. But the core of the problem, as the Central Party knows, is that we have an unregulated labour immigration from the whole EEA area. That's what we have to deal with. The Progress Party is tough in the papers, but it does nothing and is opposed to the EEA Agreement and the EU's very best and most loyal friend in the Stortinget, together with the Right and Labour Party. We want a regulation of labour immigration to Norway in order to be able to control it and to ensure Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e927	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e932	In October, the government presented a budget for more people at work, a sustainable welfare society and a safer Norway. The budgetary unity of the Stortinget continues the government's priorities. Today, when we debate taxes and taxes, it is important to remember that the decisions taken here lead to money being taken out of the wallets for most people. That is why we need a tax and tax level that is perceived as right and that makes it profitable to work and invest in Norwegian jobs. With the budgetary agreement, taxes and charges have overall been reduced by 25 billion at the lower end of the year. kr since the government joined in 2013. These reliefs have benefited families and businesses throughout the country and give economic freedom. Next year, a normal family with two full-time incomes will pay about NOK 11000 less in taxes than in 2013. Together, such a family has been reduced by several tens of thousands of dollars over these years. It is not in itself an objective that the State should include as much as possible in taxes and taxes. We cannot treasure ourselves to well-being or economic growth. It is therefore essential that we keep order in the Norwegian economy. It's going well in the Norwegian economy. The growth is good. Let me remind you that this isn't obvious. On the contrary. In 2014, we experienced a dramatic fall in oil prices that had major consequences. Fortunately, we handled it in a good way. I believe that the tax reform we have implemented has been the right medicine – not the left-hand call for strong tax incentives. We also see positive developments in the Norwegian economy in the labour market. Employment is increasing markedly and has now increased by 75 000 people in the last two years. The availability has decreased significantly. It is about one percentage point lower than when it was at its highest winter 2016. When the available hands come to work, the tax revenue goes up and the social security costs go down. In this way, we can reduce poverty and exclusion. This is also how we ensure good welfare arrangements. And that way we get more resources to build the country further. In order for the Norwegian economy to continue its good development, the government will reduce the tax on labour and on business. Tax relief, which increases the growth capacity of the economy, supports the necessary transformations, so that we get more legs to stand on. Therefore, the government follows up the tax reform by reducing the tax rate on general income for persons and companies from 23 p.m. until 22 pst. In comparison, the rate was 28 pst. in 2013. When companies and individuals decide on a larger part of their income, it becomes a little more attractive to invest and work. The tax on the last crown earned is reduced for most, and most for those with the lowest income. It is thus at low income levels that the profitability of working more increases most. The world around us is changing rapidly. Norway has to deal with developments internationally, including in tax policy. It becomes less attractive to invest in enterprises in Norway if the Norwegian company tax differs significantly from comparable countries. Despite the fact that we have reduced the corporate tax year by year, in 2018 we have the highest corporate tax rate in the Nordic region. As we lower corporation tax, we make several changes to the tax regime so that taxable profits are more consistent with actual profits, and we make it more difficult for multinational groups to move profits out of Norway. In addition, we reduce the taxes on wealth on shares and operating resources. The impairment discount – as a broad majority on the Stortinget stands behind – is increased to 25 pst. The property tax inhibits private Norwegian ownership because it only affects Norwegian owners and can weaken investment in enterprises that rely on Norwegian capital to further develop the company and create new jobs. About half of the taxes on persons under this government have gone to persons with income less than NOK 600 000. The NOK 11,000 a regular household with two full-time incomes saves tax per year with this government, is well into the family economy. These are money that the individual family can spend on what they want. It may be a one-month mortgage or it may be the case that children can take part in an additional leisure activity. That's how we make everyday life easier for most people. The Labour Party's budget proposal for 2019 is in the opposite direction of a growth-enhancing tax policy. In total, they will increase the tax by about 10 billion. kr. Both the general income tax rate and the wealth tax are proposed to be increased in comparison with the government's proposal. In addition, many new cars are becoming more expensive with the Workers' Party's proposal. But I understand that the Workers' Party is increasing the union deduction. However, the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs with high corporate taxes and property taxes must be a source of little comfort to workers. The property tax is an unsocial tax because it affects regardless of the ability to pay and how much loans you have on the house and home. The municipality can charge property taxes whether you are unemployed, is in a low-income period, or has become a long-term pensioner with a long-term lower income and lives in the house where the children grew up. People's housing should be a home, not a treasure item. Therefore, property taxes must be reduced. The maximum property tax rate for housing and recreational property is reduced from 7 to 5 per million with effect from 2020. At the same time, a mandatory maximum value of 70 pst is introduced. of the estimated market value. There is a clear signal to municipalities that property taxes on people's homes and leisure homes must be limited. Norwegian municipalities have a good economic foundation to strengthen important welfare services while reducing property taxes. It is therefore incomprehensible why the Workers' Party and several other parties are in favour of reducing property taxes. The cut in property taxes makes housing cheaper, but for the Workers' Party it is clearly more important that Norwegian municipalities have to have a maximum suction tube in their wallet. The next year the electricity tax will also be reduced. It has only happened once before that the electricity tax has been reduced for households. In 2019 the Norwegian people and our businesses will pay an estimated 1 466 billion. kr in taxes and charges. This is an incredible amount of money, and this money we have to manage in a sensible way. I record that the Workers' Party would like to add even more to the taxes and taxes of most people and companies. Unfortunately, one important thing is forgotten: in Norway, we live by value creation, and values must be created before they can be distributed. With the state budget for 2019, we continue to reduce taxes and taxes. This is how we provide a good basis for a greener, smarter and more innovative business – for more people in work, for a simpler everyday life for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e966	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e971	In the proposition, the Minister of Finance states that the cost of day travel domestically in the special agreements is consistently higher than what is considered reasonable. The special agreements are part of the negotiations between the State, the Municipal Councillor and the employees, and they have the status of a collective agreement. Why does the Minister of Finance not respect the agreements concluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e976	This government is committed to respecting agreements concluded with and between the social partners. But we're also busy cleaning up and simplifying the tax system, and that's what we've been up to with the proposals for next year's government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e981	It sounds very funny that the Minister of Finance will not answer why she does not respect collective agreements. So it's a collective agreement that was concluded a very short time ago, where the employees had expectations that they would receive compensation that they negotiated with the state. Then the state budget comes, and then the finance minister gets about half of it. If you talk about suction pipes in someone's pockets, it must be what the Minister of Finance has for the employees who have to be sent on the trip. Again: Why do you not respect the tariff system that we have in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e986	I replied to that in my previous reply, but I distance myself from the claim that the government and the finance minister are spending money on the country's inhabitants. It is in stark contrast to what the Workers' Party is proposing systematically every year: a sharp increase in the level of taxes and taxes on both residents and businesses. This government is going the opposite way, and we're doing it the whole way systematically. It's because we think a competitive tax system is important to our businesses. It's about securing jobs, and it's about creating new jobs. It is important for workers, it is important for most people in this country. It is also important for families to be able to have as much of their own income as possible. Therefore, it is important that we also reduce the tax on labour income, which enables families to make their own choices in their own private economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e991	In the course of this debate, the Progress Party has indicated that they find it unpleasant to be reminded of a case adopted in the context of the revised national budget, which introduced a new system for the taxation of foreign workers. It implies, for example: where two construction workers work in a Norwegian construction site, the Norwegian worker has ordinary taxation — the Polish worker can choose whether to have another type of tax, which gives him a lower tax. If one was concerned with simplification and red tape, one had to make sure that the new scheme would apply to all foreign workers, not make it optional, as today. The other thing that should be ensured is that it should be neutral — that non-resident workers did not receive a lower tax than Norwegian workers. Why does the Minister of Finance think it makes sense to have a scheme that, according to her own figures, involves a tax subsidy of 100 million foreign workers. kr, i.e. higher tax for Norwegian workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e998	I don't think any of the government parties find it unpleasant to be reminded of this, as the representative Gülsvik claims. This was a question we discussed more than thoroughly in the context of the revised national budget. But I can repeat some of what I said in a lot of the debate at the time, namely that the main point of making these changes is to clear up many existing errors in today's rules, which have also been pointed out by the National Audit Office. It is also a system that has been very resource-intensive for tax authorities. The essence of this proposal is that gross employee income is taxed at one rate and that no deduction is made. But because we also have to deal with EEA rules, you can choose to be taxed according to general rules. The main point of this is to make simpler rules that lead to proper taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1008	In order to make rules easier, a person should have rules applicable to all non-resident workers, where it is not optional which tax scheme to have but where all non-resident workers are in the new scheme – and then that the new scheme ensures that non-resident workers are not taxed less than Norwegian workers. That's what I'm asking when, in the course of the next year's government budget treatment, the Minister of Finance informed us that the new scheme that is in place – where it is optional for foreign workers – means that foreign workers receive a tax subsidy of more than 100 million. kr. Why is it reasonable to have a scheme designed to give Norwegian workers a higher tax — over 100 million. kr – compared to non-resident workers in similar jobs and with similar assumptions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1015	I would like to remind you that this government has systematically reduced taxes on labour in Norway. That we're also cleaning up accidents in our tax system, you should be happy. It makes it easier and more transparent, and we also help people pay the right taxes. There's a healthy principle in our tax system: you have to pay the right tax. This applies whether you are a foreign worker in Norway or a Norwegian worker in Norway. Nevertheless, the ambition of this government is to facilitate the reduction of tax pressure in Norway. It contrasts with the vast majority of opposition parties, who in their alternative state budgets systematically propose to increase the overall tax burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1022	The Minister of Finance spoke in his speech about corporate tax and its reduction, which goes beyond the tax settlement. It is interesting to see and to follow the developments that we see in Europe and internationally, where there has been a race at the bottom to combat both tax adjustment and profit movements in terms of reducing company taxes, but also that some countries – including in Europe – have made it almost a business model to have a low corporate tax or no corporate tax and to be almost tax havens. This summer, the NHO was out and called for the total removal of corporate taxes in Norway to deal with the developments we see in the world, which the financial committee leader rejected. I think that's positive. But I also get curious when the Minister of Finance justifies the cut in corporate tax based on the developments we see internationally, in other countries around us. Will it be this government's policy that we should follow further reductions in corporate tax when other countries do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1029	It is not the case that Norway is leading a race towards the bottom. Rather on the contrary, I said in my post that Norway now has the highest corporate tax rate in the Nordic region. That's what's the main challenge. We have to relate to the world we're part of, simply because it's about our ability as a nation to facilitate the creation of values in Norway. We must then have competitive rules, which make it attractive to invest here – instead of in Sweden or in other parts of Europe. That's the premise that we can discuss what SV is most concerned about, namely distribution. Without our ability to create values in our country, we also have no ability to have good welfare arrangements, to conduct good distribution policies – as we do, and which is also the reason why Norway is one of the least diverse countries in the world. Then we have to be concerned about how we're going to create values, and that's this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1036	Every year, State Council Siv Jensen has cut the taxes for the rich. Red has been against each year. But behind the government's net tax cuts, there are some tax increases in which the roles are exchanged, where Siv Jensen has the role of tax collection, and where Red is the ones who want to cut. One such example is that the government has increased the taxes of people living on setbacks by 750 million. kr. These are workers who have to stay away in order to do their job — under rather awkward conditions on a job wreck with limited ability to cook hot food. These peoples have got a bigger tax bill with the Progress Party and Siv Jensen in government, with the government's changes to the rules for diet and Losji. The question is, why are taxes to be paid to own shares on the stock exchange, but tax increases to live on the stock exchange?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1043	Both the financial debate and this debate show what has been the profile of the government's fiscal policy ever since we joined. More than half of the tax relief granted by this government has gone to persons with income less than NOK 600 000. We have a basic social profile in the tax reliefs we have implemented, but at the same time we have been committed to facilitating increased value creation. We have to be able to have more thoughts in our heads at the same time. We need to conduct a good and investment-friendly tax and industrial policy because that's the prerequisite for people having a job to go to. Then we've spent time cleaning up and simplifying the tax system. That's what the government is going to do. It is through cleanups and simplifications that we also free up space for action, so that we can further improve the competitiveness of our tax system. We think that's absolutely right to do that. We have to be able to do more things, be busy with both business and ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1052	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1057	High participation in the labour market and a fair, devolved tax system provide income to finance the world's best welfare society. I will start by being a little personal today. I have been through a serious illness where all medicine was on blue prescription. I also received one injection every week for a period of 10–12,000 kroner per time. What the total treatment actually cost, I don't think I can even think about it. Who could afford a preventive syringe at that price? It was not life-threatening or therapeutic, but purely preventive, to get up that immune system so that I could be at work. That's how we still want it in Norway. Well-being costs. Therefore, Norway should not go to the lowest possible tax rate. The working party passes on the tax rate on general income of 23 p.m., and then also on corporation tax, but we tax more wisely. The working party will have lower taxes for those who need them, and higher taxes for those who tolerate them. Four out of five receive reduced taxes on the income of the Workers' Party, all of which incur less than NOK 750000. The minimum single pension list we raise this year by $4,000 a year. We're increasing the minimum subtraction to 48 pst, so that those who have the least, get more to route. So we're reducing taxes more than the government for those who have income less than NOK 750,000, and this even if we keep taxes on general income of 23 pst. Then those who spend more than one million a year have to contribute a little more than $600 a month. It is real redistribution. Differences will be reduced. The Labour Party will have an organized working life, so we'll increase the deduction from the union quota by a thousand times a year. The taxes on wealth are taxes on persons. Here, three out of four still do not pay taxes on wealth with the Labour Party's scheme, but there will be fewer zero-tax providers than with the government's proposal, because all bidreg. The working party has gradually reduced the company tax from 28 pst. to 23 p.m., in line with the tax settlement. It was the Labour Party in the government that started this reduction. The Labour Party does not lower this further, for the simple reason that Norway should not lead to the lowest possible tax. In other words, we don't include the race to the bottom that many people point to. Norway is in fact in the middle of the OECD average of corporate tax. According to the tax director, it is 60 pst. of corporate taxes paid by large multinationals. So why are they against it? The wealthiest taxes are going to be totally wrong medicine. Ordinary workers who commute to work have paid part of the price of these tax cuts to the richest. If you have a commuted Hamar-Oslo route, you would get a tax tighten of NOK 6 730 since the right-wing government took over. Bid one away and had cooking skills, got tax cuts of NOK 8 375 since the right-hand government took over. These are figures from the SSB and the Ministry of Finance in 2018. The conclusion is clear: as more and more people do, the right-hand government is able to cover an increasingly large part of the commuting costs itself, because tax payments are to be paid to the richest. The tax expense of an average of NOK 5 500 per person is consumed if a commuter – and so on. It is also the case that debt interest, commuting and quota rates are higher for the individual when taxes on general income fall because one has to cover a larger part of it. When you compare tax rates, you also have to take on what you get for the tax you pay: schooling, health care, and we get caught up in getting old. If we trap outside, it's a security net. That's how we do it in Norway, and the Labour Party wants us all to still have it like this, and not depend on a good insurance. It is possible to tax smartly and at the same time take care of the Norwegian welfare model, the one that scares me. Well-being, like free health care and schooling, costs, and it has to be financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1078	Unemployment goes down, growth goes up, and new jobs are created. For the Right, it is important to facilitate more value creation. That is why the government and the Christian People's Party have reduced the overall tax burden by about 25 billion. NOK, which is why we are presenting a government budget for more secure jobs next year. We lower company taxes and property taxes on working capital. It's about securing Norwegian jobs. Businesses will be able to use more of their resources to create values. We continue to lower the personal tax. It is about freedom of choice and economic security for ordinary people. A family will pay about NOK 11,000 less in taxes next year than in 2013. It means more well-being for families, who now know with greater certainty that they can afford to pay the next electricity bill. The right is concerned with predictability for Norwegian business, and in this year's budget negotiations, it has been important for us to avoid sudden changes in fees. Now we will also take a thorough review of the fees, including: in the case of non-alcoholic beverages and chocolate and sugar products, in cooperation with the industry. In particular, the chocolate and sugar fees have not been well designed and the limitations may appear to be random. This could be done, for example, by: be difficult to understand why there is a charge on marsipangris, but not on marsipan roll. Here it has to be cleaned up. In our visit I visited Chili Chocolate, a local chocolate factory in the butter island of Stavanger Center. There, the local entrepreneur Asle could report on challenges with the limitations and level of charges. I am therefore very pleased that the government and the Christian People's Party have listened to Asle and the industry, and reversed the fee for chocolate and confectionery. I am also very pleased that we are removing the machine tax, which means that manufacturers are getting more predictability of what they are taxing. We show the willingness to find better solutions for business. For the government it is important to create a simpler everyday life for ordinary people, and the 350-krona limit is for many today a valued consumer good. At the same time, we have to recognise that trade leakage is an increasing challenge, and that we have a responsibility to ensure Norwegian jobs. Online commerce has come to be; it understands most. International trade is good, but it is reasonable that companies that want to sell their goods in Norway follow the same rules as others. Camilla in Skorringen said when I visited her center store: Let me compete, but on equal terms. That's why we're now changing the 350-kroner limit, but we're only doing it from 2020, so we can find a good solution for the customs declaration. We need to find digital, consumer-friendly solutions where the fee is not excessive. On that occasion, we can be glad that the left-hand side did not get a pass through to remove the border with a pen stroke – that would mean chaos for the post office and the customs office – and they have not even been able to agree on what it will mean for the revenue side of the budget. They've put in some calculations that might remind you of the lotto numbers. The Government and the Christian People's Party have found a more responsible solution that will ensure predictability for both consumers and businesses. We must never take the workplaces of this country for granted. An important New Year's plan for all of us should therefore be to be equally good at cheering on those who create jobs, as we are when we honor our Norwegian practitioners in the Olympics and the World Cup. To that end, I would like to call on all the good colleagues here in the Chamber to act on the Christmas gifts locally this year. With the right in government, we will work together with the companies to create more secure jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1095	Value creation is the result of an interaction between the employer and the employee in a free society, with the lowest possible tax for all and with politicians who make it possible for us to get more employers, who create more jobs, which give more than one job to go to. With the Advance Party in government, we have made sure that business retains more of its profits for new value creation, while ordinary families now retain NOK 11 000 more of their own income than they did under the red-green. The country needs politicians who want to bet on people who want to create jobs. Then we have to make sure that business owners can spend more on the companies and less on taxes to the state. Those politicians we find in the Socialist Left Party, the party that is trying to give the impression that they will tax the rich, while people with ordinary income will pay less in taxes. I think most people have come to believe that SV should tax the so-called rich – or business owners, as many of them are. When SV taxes the company owners, it will be a little bit more to the state, but less to develop the company, less to buy new machines, less to use new technologies that can increase the competitiveness of the company, less to market what they produce, which will result in less sales and thus fewer jobs. The consequence of SV's tax policy is that fewer jobs in the private sector will be established and that more people will have difficulty finding a job. One thing is that SV is trying to make this up as that it is taking away from the rich and giving to the poor, but in addition to the fact that SV's tax policy means fewer jobs, SV's policy also means less in the wallet for everyone, most of them. The vast majority today live in their own housing, and SV suggests that those living in owner-occupied dwellings pay more in taxes to the public. For SV, it may not mean anything that most people who live in their own home also have loans for the dwelling they live in. It may seem that SV has been so occupied by rich people living in large, expensive dwellings, that they have completely forgotten that most people do not actually live in large villas with their own butlers and private drivers. With SV's policies, it is not that only the richest have to pay more; with SV's policies, everyone living in owner-occupied housing has to prepare to pay more in taxes than the Progress Party and today's government wants. Whether it's municipal property taxes, national property taxes, owner-occupancy taxes, housing taxes or property taxes, really doesn't mean anything to the world for those who have to pay more. If SV had been determined, there would have been more in tax by living in their own home for everyone – sentence. So the SV can ask themselves if it is really those who have the best advice, or whether it is those who have the worst advice, who would actually have been hit the most, with more taxes on housing. For the Progress Party, it is important to think overall – to have more thoughts in your head at the same time – and to ensure that as politicians, we can reduce the tax burden on people most, while at the same time helping business to go well, so that business owners can spend more money on businesses rather than tax, so that we get more jobs. Business and business owners, who SV like to call the rich, have rightly received less tax with the Progress Party in government, just as everyone else who goes to work and has quite ordinary income also pays less in taxes. Because no matter how you turn it around, everyone pays less in taxes. - In relation to what? Yes, in relation to what they did when SV sat in government. SV can say what they want in opposition, but there's nothing that says more about reality than how it actually was when SV was in government. And when SV sat in government, everyone paid more in taxes – everyone – not just the richest, but everyone. When SV's depositors stood in the lawn outside the Stortinget, it was not because they thought that people with ordinary income paid too much in taxes. No, SV thought it was entirely right that absolutely everyone should pay more in taxes than the Progress Party and today's government think they should. Then, of course, they can try to imagine people today that they have suddenly become a party that wants less tax for someone, but it's not credible – just because SV has been in government for eight years. And if they really thought that someone should get lower taxes, they would get it before the Advance Party and today's government took over. But it is with the Progress Party and today's government that most people have received lower taxes, not with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1110	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1116	The Labour Party wants a tax policy for Norway that redistributes more, ensuring that ordinary people have to tax less of their income. We do that with an income tax where four out of five Norwegians get to keep more of their wages. For most people, they have an income of less than NOK 750000, and everyone with income less than NOK 750000 will pay less taxes with our policies. Those with income above will pay less taxes with government policy. The working party is concerned that it will pay to work, even if you have to travel to work. commuters have had tight crews during the Solberg government. They will not be deducted from any of the travel expenses until they reach NOK 22 700 in pure travel expenses. The working party will give a deduction of NOK 15 000. The deduction for the additional costs of having two households, NOK 205 per day, was lost last year. In addition, if you have housing costs and you have to rent furniture, you can deduct rent costs over NOK 10,000, but only for two years, you have to move. Several families are in a situation where one travels to work and is away this week. Will the government split those families, or is there enough room for someone who serves at least to stop working? This is not the way to facilitate participation in the labour market. Norway has almost half a million commuters, and it may look like it is. the commuters who have to pay for the thousand richest have received 1.3 million. kr each in tax bills. Here lies the greatest difference between us and the government. We believe that those who have the greatest assets can be taxed more, and those who have to go to work less. Although the large majority of Norway has a high standard of living and good living conditions, inequalities have increased over time. In recent years, those with the lowest income have not taken part in the growth of income. It's a dangerous development. Too many young people go to unsafe part-time jobs without the possibility of a wage that can bring them into the housing market, so that they can start adult life. For the Workers' Party, the aim has always been to use fiscal policies to smooth out. It's necessary, because there are so many other mechanisms in our society that make those who have a lot get more. Investment taxes are very effective in reducing increasing differences. There is little technical support to claim that the property tax constitutes a significant obstacle to Norwegian business. The previous speaker was concerned about the need for funds to develop and invest in a company. In fact, expenditure on such an investment and development is deducted before paying corporation tax. The working party retains the company tax at the same level as last year. There were jobs developed last year, fortunately. In the previous government period, more jobs were created per year with 28 pst. in corporate tax, so that the Progress Party simplifies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1131	The main objective of economic policy, fiscal policy included, is to support the growth capacity of the economy, to promote migration and to contribute to the creation of more secure jobs. It is the values created by hard work every day and the taxes and taxes of individuals and thousands of businesses across the country, which are the basis for what we can spend in the next round on the expenditure side of the state budget for welfare, road investment, defence, preparedness and other good purposes. The fact that it is the taxpayers' money we distribute also obliges us to use the resources as efficiently as possible. Therefore, the state also needs to streamline and convert, as the business community does every day. In order for companies to cope with change and further develop and secure jobs, and for people with ideas to take the risk of starting their own business, there must be good and stable framework conditions, predictability and a long-term perspective, including in tax policy. Right-wing policies provide the basis for values to be created before they can be distributed. The more profitable jobs, the more it becomes to distribute. The cake's getting bigger. Therefore, it must pay to work, save and invest. Individuals, families and businesses need to keep more of their own money, because we're going to need more private jobs that contribute to the government budget in the future. Then it must be rewarded that people bet and create new businesses. Another important step is a further reduction in property taxes and corporate taxes down to 22 p.m., also to bring them more into line with the level of our neighbouring countries and make it more attractive to invest in Norway. Lower tax levels increase value creation, and lower taxes on general income we know are growth-promoting. Among the signs that the policy of government works well is that more jobs are created. Only in the last year has a total of 56 000 more jobs been created. With the changes we are adopting today, this government has since 2013 reduced taxes by a total of 25 billion. kr. There are personal tax reliefs, half of which have gone to income less than NOK 600 000. With this budget, an ordinary family will pay NOK 11 000 less in taxes in 2019 than they did in 2013. In addition, the reduction in property taxes will further reduce the tax burden on enterprises and families. Cooperation with the Christian People's Party makes it possible to pursue a growth-enhancing tax policy. That's good. There is a recipe for conversion and job creation that we know works, and Norway needs more of it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1144	The Labour Party wants a society with small differences and is concerned that ordinary people should have good conditions. The right-wing government has again put forward a government budget that prioritises the richest. Differences between people continue to increase, and right-wing policy continues to create greater differences. It's a bad circle it looks like the Solberg government doesn't want or can get out of. The Labour Party believes this is wrong policy With our alternative tax regime, those who have the most must contribute more, while those who have the least pay less. With the Workers' Party's tax arrangements, ordinary workers are well cared for. Serves less than SEK 750000, receives a lower income tax with the Workers' Party than with the Government. Many people have to commute to get to work. At the same time as the government says that people have to be prepared to travel longer to get work, the government makes it more expensive to commute. Since Erna Solberg became prime minister, the limit of deduction is increased from NOK 13,950 to NOK 22,700. The working party will make it easier for commuters, and will compensate more of the travel expenses by lowering the limit for deductions of NOK 7700. The Labour Party believes that an organised working life contributes to a serious work life. The more workers who are members of a trade union, the more difficult it is for unprofessional employers to dump wages and social rights. Unfortunately, the level of organisation has fallen. It is unfortunate and will in the long run undermine our well-functioning tripartite cooperation. Research from the Institute for Societal Research shows that increased trade union deductions increase the level of organisation. That's why we're increasing the union deduction by NOK 1000. The parties do not support the proposal for an increase. Summaries: ordinary workers pay less taxes with the Workers' Party than with today's government. Workers who commute get better conditions with the Workers' Party than with today's government. Workers who organise, and thus contribute to a more serious work life, get better conditions with the Workers' Party than with today's government. The Labour Party wants a society with small differences. That is why we are not prioritizing tax cuts to the richest, but good conditions for ordinary workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1169	I understand that it is becoming exhausting for the Right and the Advance Party to hear the SV's number year after year about how the 0.1 pst. with the highest wealth has received more than 300000 kroner in tax cuts, how the thousand richest get an average of 179 000 kroner in tax cuts, and how they have revenues of more than 10 million dollars. On average, NOK 300000 is paid in lower taxes. – I understand that there are numbers that are difficult to listen to. But to lie to defend yourself by saying that SV wants a higher tax for most people, is an attack I might not use time to answer, when it's so untrue. I thought I would talk about two other specific issues and a proposal we are making in the context of the budget debate. The first case and the proposal concern the fight against tax havens. Indeed, the size has introduced country-by-country reporting, which is good because it will help to make unwanted tax adaptations visible. It provides an overview of what a company pays in different countries, and it is clearly intended to document the tax intake and prevent unwanted tax adaptation. Why? Clearly, it is very harmful for societies to lose tax revenues that finance common resources, and it should also be – and is – a competitive disadvantage for companies that do not want to make use of such techniques. Unfortunately, today’s country-by-country reporting does not live up to expectations. This is because there are loopholes — loopholes that mean that the obligation to provide information only applies to countries where the company pays the authorities more than 800 000 kroner. But in tax havens you don't like to pay taxes, or at least very little, and then the limit of 800,000 kroner becomes a pretty big dirt hole. Ecocrim calls it the dirt hole paradoxically in order to detect black economy and possible tax fraud. Finance Norway and KLP have also warned against this loophole. That is why it is time to change that, and we are proposing today to amend this regulation, so that information is provided and reported in line with annual accounts and irrespective of such limit. It is a proposal that I hope can be widely supported. The other thing is oil taxes. Today, the report of the Climate Risk Committee is being presented. The head of the sample writes today in Today's Business: «The transition to a low-carbon society involves fundamental changes in energy markets.» ‘Climate risks need to be better elucidated to ensure that new investments in, inter alia, the petroleum sector withstand the meeting with a new reality’.» It is time to change today's oil tax system, so that we move from a system that adapts increased investment to a reduction and harvest phase. I hope that will be a priority in the government negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1189	Today we have a legislative proposal for consideration in the Chamber. Just to complete a discussion we have had here in the past: it is with great wonder that I see the Workers' Party promoting a loose bill in the context of the tax suspension. It's a serious way to run politics. Usually, the request proposal, in which the government is asked to investigate, is promoted, and then come back to the Stortinget with legislation that has been at the hearing, which is technically sound and that fits into the law in question. It's not done in this case. For those who live in a municipality without a property tax, but who are going to go with a municipality that has it, I, as a owner of a dwelling or business owner, would be nervous in view of this proposal. So the equivalent of power plants and commercial property. In other words, it seems perfectly right that if three municipalities join together, and one municipality has a property tax of 7 per cent on a petroleum plant and the other municipalities have nothing at all, the new local government should have the opportunity to give all commercial property in the new municipality an increase from 0 to 7 per cent from one year to the next. There is no differentiation in the first point that is proposed, and that's what I call a tax shock. The second point is that for dwellings and leisure homes, there should be no higher rate than the rate in the most populous municipality. So if the most populous municipality today has a rate of 7 per million, or 5 per million from 2020, then owners of housing in the less populous municipality should be able to get a tax shock without a year to another. Do you really think that's right? In other parts of the Property Tax Act, there are restrictions on the speed with which to increase the per million rate, just to protect citizens and businesses. And there are many other questions being asked in the proposal. Therefore, the government parties and the Christian People's Party promote a proposal that gives taxpayers better predictability and protects owners of housing and commercial property against tax shocks. That's it. Turning to the matter and explanation of vote. At any rate, the parties to the Government will oppose the proposals No. 6, and also 22, 23, 14 and 15, which are promoted in these two cases. I must also say, as the rapporteur-in-Office, that we must make a correction to the Committee's position. It is true that two proposals that have been put forward are one proposal at a time. 3 S and one proposal at Innst. 4 L, is duplicated by what was advanced into the Inner. 2 S. Proposal No. 2 to the Inn. 3 S is the same as proposal No. 3 into the innermost. 2 S. Proposal No. 1 in Inn. 4 L is the same as proposal No. 5 into the innermost. 2 S. On behalf of the Committee, I withdraw these proposals from the vote, as they have already been tabled at the plenary session. 2 S – for purely formal reasons; the proposals have been contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1202	The central party believes that the government's government budget for 2019 is a poor budget for those who live and feed in our long-range country. Why? Let me take a couple of examples of that. First, the increase in the so-called taxi fare. This year, among other things, the taxi industry which received the heavy charging added during the last hour of the negotiation room. The Government and the Christian People's Party will remove the exception for weight components in the one-time fee. This means that taxi owners face tough times, and perhaps customers have to pay more. A few examples of this: a Volvo V90 TS gets an increase in the cost of NOK 113 000. And a Mercedes-Benz Sprinter gets an increase in the fee of approx. NOK 250000. These are cars that transport people with disabilities, schoolboys, and that are incredibly important for the taxi industry. Also, from the government, from 8 to 12 pst, the drug industry has received an increase in travel income from 8 to 12 pst. The margins start to be small for the taxi industry. It is now unlikely that they are charged, and I am very concerned. The government saves money not to adjust the deductions and rates for fishing, for agriculture, for seafarers, for single carers and for low wages – more money for the richest and less for business, business and most people. The government's party keeps the high sugar charge on the shower. This we know will have dramatic consequences for Norwegian brewery, such as. Oskar Sylte, who is from my home country. We have seen that prominent politicians from the government have repeatedly been there and have promised to remove this charge. That hasn't happened. In practice, we in the Center Party will keep the tax rates from 2018. Anyone who charges less than NOK 700,000 will receive less tax with the proposal of the Centre Party. We can do this because we're adding a little bit of tax to those who have the most of them, that's a previous redistribution from the one that has the most, to most of the people. At the same time, the Centre would like to reduce or eliminate unsocial charges to a total of 1 billion. kr and give business tax advantages.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1221	I note that the position is shocked that the opposition is trying to clear up missing legislative proposals in the government’s work on the municipal reform. I also register that Right is trying to hide this by now making a request. This is where government parties sleep an hour. Without the Labour Party having taken control of the rate the new merged municipality could take, the municipality had nothing to stick to. What income could they expect to have in 2020 to finance school health and good care for the elderly? There was a complete lack of foresight. For six years, the government has had a municipal merger at the top of the panneum, and it is not intended that the municipalities should have custody and clear rules for the property tax in the new merged municipality. Moreover, the merged municipalities could not foresee that the government would go in and strangle the municipalities' ability to collect property taxes. In our proposal, the new municipality can choose whether to take in the tax rate that is the highest, middle or lower of the merged municipalities. For example, when the Mountain and Eyeyard merge, the most populous municipality, Mountain, will have a low tax on property, while at the highest rate, Eyeland, it has the power income. And these municipalities have accounted for the income from Eyeland, too, as future income. They must have confidence that the local government has seen the right rate in the future. When it comes to housing, we have said that we pass on what the Minister of Finance says in the letter of reply to the signatures, and that is to use the most populous municipality. I did not think that today's debate should be about interpretation or misinterpretation. If the government took up the issue, we could actually only have a good call-up decision. The working party is busy getting a solution and clear rules, and the fact that we suggested this late must not stand in the way of the purpose: carelessness. But instead of getting a good proposal down, we draw it, and ask the government to take it along in the further work – and Christmas peace is set up in the Finance Committee too! We will support the call decision. Then, perhaps in the rest of the debate, we can get back to focus on the matter, simply because the differences are increasing in the government's budget, and that climate tax has been introduced that does not work. Finally, I would like to mention that in 2019, the Workers' Party's proposal for the termination of the IPS, Individual pension savings, is stated in an incubation. Now the framework is adopted, and then we have to change it to 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1238	The biggest difference between people in Norway is primarily based on whether they are outside or within the labour market, and that is precisely this government, both before 2017 and after 2017 – with the expansion with the Left – in cooperation with the Christian People's Party has worked for every single day. That's what we see in our budgets, as we see in our tax and tax systems, and that's what we do in all the other issues we put forward in the other committees. It's about adults not falling out of work, our children completing school, and creating more jobs. In the last year, 56 000 jobs have been created, after a period of oil price reductions that had almost never been seen before. In that situation, predictability has been needed, businesses have needed a state and a government that is on their side and that helps them to create these jobs, and not just create them – we have to secure them, we have to get them to last. I have heard here in the Chamber today one party, Red, who could proudly say that yes, but raising taxes by 37 billion. kr, it's responsible, it's necessary and we just had to expect more of this. At the same time, we have the Green Party, which is almost ready to shut down the oil and gas industries and send 200 000 people out in an uncertain future. But that's not really what surprises me. We know where these parties stand, but where is the Workers' Party, what happens to the Workers' Party? Here are two parties, which I have just mentioned, upon which the Workers' Party is dependent because at all could have a chance to form a majority of its policies, and they stand here and will shut down the oil and gas industry and increase taxes by 37 billion. kr – with pride – and no one from the Workers' Party asks questions about this, no one from the Workers' Party questions the responsibility. Is it because they tacitly accept that line, is it the new Workers' Party that we're going to see more of the future? So my question is to the Workers' Party representatives: are they comfortable cooperating with parties that will increase taxes by 37 billion? kr and shut down the oil and gas industry? Last time I was in debate with the representative Rigmor Aasrud, she said quite clearly that it would be quite natural to talk to the Green and Red Environmental Party if we were to find a majority of the Labour Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1251	The representative Stokkebø was up here and said that it was important not to make any sudden changes – he used it in a series of arguments to justify maintaining the tax shock on non-alcoholic beverages in the budget last year. And it's little incredible, but unfortunately it's been intriguing itself into a tradition: that in budgetary settlements before Christmas one after the other, without investigation, without dialogue with interested parties. It's all right for this majority, but when one is going to do something about it, when one sees the practical consequences, when one sees jobs lost, when one sees that businesses are going over the edge, then one has to sit down and figure out and push it out in time. That's the exact same thing as the 350 dollar limit. Had one followed the Center Party, something had been done with it a long time ago. And it's not about putting it over the night, no, the Central Party has suggested that you have a few months to implement, but when you push it over to next year's state budget treatment, i.e. over one year in time, the totally unfair discrimination of Norwegian actors, which means severe job losses and heavy losses also of income for the Norwegian State, will continue throughout 2019. The representative Stokkebø also talks about a person having different estimates of proceeds there. The Centre Party uses its alternative budget, as calculated by the Central Statistical Office, presented in October of this year: foreign online trade below NOK 350. What's surprising in this case is that the majority does not take these proceeds into account. I am fully aware that the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance have sometimes had a hard relationship with the SSB, but we tend to base the proceeds calculations that the Statistical Central Bureau gives us. So it's also important to keep going. Instead, the Minister of Finance and representatives of the Government Parties use private consultants’ reports drawn up on behalf of those who believe that these imports should continue, as justification for undermining the investigations made by the Statistical Central Bureau. Then one this year has once again seen that there will be new check-in overnight. This time it is the taxi industry that is being hit. Individual cars get a charge shock of 250000 kroner per night. The centre batch has been involved for a number of years in making changes to the car tax system in order to ensure better, safer and more environmentally friendly cars, but introducing a overnight tax shock when the alternatives are not in place will involve more expensive and less expensive services for those who are totally dependent on using taxis in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1263	The debate on taxes and taxes is coming to an end. There should have been a debate about how we distribute welfare in Norway, how we create a tax system that allows people to experience more justice, but we have experienced a position that is quite shocking that someone in the Stortinge – legislator – has allowed to present a bill that has not been investigated, it has not even been heard. But I wonder what the hearing was like when the representative Asheim and the other budget-mates found out that they were taxing the foreign diet. Where was the hearing? What employees and organisations were allowed to participate in it? What investigations were made, and how was the bill heard? It's kind of weird how to spend time attacking us because we're making a bill to fix something the government has had five years to sort it out, and has not done it. It goes without saying that you don't have much to talk about in this debate when you spend so much time on it. What we've heard is that the government is talking about half of the tax bill being given to those who have less than 600,000. Yes, it was just supposed to be missing; there are quite a number of people who have income below 600 000. But you're talking very little about the thousand richest people who've had 1.3 million. in tax havens. Nor do you talk about and defend why you cut in the value of termination benefits, cut in the holiday money for the unemployed, and make sure that the union quota is not adjusted, so that it becomes less valuable year after year. There is nothing to say about the increase in taxes of NOK 3000 that a commuter from my hometown will get if you have to take the train and the tram to Oslo. There is little help in the fact that the tax for the same person has become a few thousand times less when the nursery bill also increases accordingly. And when you introduce taxes on both driving compensation and travel and diet rates, it doesn't contribute to most people either. To the representative Kapur, who is concerned that the Workers' Party will cooperate with others on the left: I want to remind the representative Kapur of the Progress Party, with whom he cooperates, who is to remove the tolls, which are to remove the document fee, which is to remove the property tax, and which is to remove the property tax. It goes without saying that the Progress Party has had little impact on the budgets it has put forward, but there is quite a gap on the government side as well, and I am glad that we spend the money more wisely than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1272	It is interesting to hear the sudden concern and concern of the Central Party about the level of fees when, within the Committee, representatives of representatives propose higher charges, when we know that they have a long history from the red-green tax administration. When it comes to the 350-kroner limit and containment, I notice that the centre party will remove the limit before we have put in place a consumer-friendly, easy solution. It could mean chaos for the Post Office and the customs office if the proposal of the Central Party had been adopted, and it could mean huge costs for the individual consumer. The centre party says they have found out how many transactions are for less than 350 kroner online, and therefore they have only thrown that figure into their budget and believe that it is responsible. No, it's not responsible. One can't just assume, because one removes the 350-kroner limit, that everyone will stop trading for less than 350 kroner abroad – it's not that simple. One can't just factor it in like that, it's irresponsible. It shows an irresponsible line on which the Centre Party and several opposition parties have settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1280	Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1286	It is interesting if the representative Stokkebø believes that the red-green government was a tax administration. Because what happened after we had the red-green government? Well, then we've got a new majority on Stortinget, which has increased the fees by 6.6 billion. kr. So it would be interesting if the representative Stokkebø came up to the pulpit and gave a character to what's happening in this area by today's majority. At the 350-kroner limit: we don't introduce it overnight. We go months ahead in time, just so one gets time to get the systems in place. And the numbers are not taken out of the head of anyone in the Center Party, they're derived from statistics from the Statistical Central Bureau. It's not right that we in our alternative budget assume that all of these revenues are going into the treasury. The central statistical agency says that online trade under 350 kroner is over 18 billion. kr. If one were to collect all the revenue from the treasury, one would get a far higher proceeds than the Senterpartiet has assumed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1293	It was the representative Aasrud who made me draw, because Aasrud was surprised that we, who are in position, disagreed with the proposal that the Workers' Party has promoted. There are several reasons why we disagree with that. One is that you sketch a solution that overnight could lead to a tax shock from 0 to 7 per million in property taxes on housing. The second is that you compare a workshop locally with a power plant and say that they can be taxed in the same way in the municipalities. But in addition, we are critical of promoting a legislative proposal with as many consequences as a loose proposal in the Chamber. The Finance Committee jointly sent a letter to the Ministry of Finance asking for an entirely different proposal and received a five-page long response, which problemed why this had to be properly investigated and could not be transferred in that way. Then the Labour Party comes today with a bill, over the table, without even establishing when the law will come into force, and says that we shall now adopt this. If the Labour Party believes that this is a perfectly legitimate and fine way to do it, then why have they drawn the proposal? They have, of course, drawn it because we have stripped them of the fact that this is a very unprofessional way of dealing with laws in Norway — even in the United Kingdom. Furthermore, the representative Aasrud pointed out that there was disagreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. That's absolutely right. There is disagreement in the programmes. The representative, Aasrud, then showed that the Progress Party has several proposals, for example: to remove all the tolls, or to remove the property tax locally. That's absolutely right. It is such that the Progress Party has the finance minister in Norway in this cooperation. It is that the Storting now decides to reduce the rate from 7 to 5 per million on the property tax. It is true that tolls would have been much higher if the Progress Party did not put in government than when they were in government – because cooperating with a party gives the party power and impact in politics. The representative Mr Kapur's question to the Workers' Party is quite clear: what power and what impact will the Workers' Party's preferred partners have? What government council posts will they get? How will they affect? It is doubtful that when the Advance Party sits in government, they influence politics in many areas, just like the Right and Left – and perhaps over Christmas also the Christian People's Party. Our question is: how are the opposition parties to influence policy if the Workers' Party gains power? And we didn't get a good answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1306	The representative, Mr Stokkebø, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1317	I notice that we did not get a response to what was behind the exact figure in the Central Party budget. They've found some numbers at the SSB, and then they've tipped themselves up to how many fewer people will stop trading if the $350 limit is lifted. The centre party has one number, the working party has another and the SV has another. This is irresponsible. We have to base realistic invasions, and the government will do that when that time comes. I'm going to give the Central Party an idea of how the government's budget is in terms of taxes and taxes. Since 2013, we have reduced the total tax burden by 25 billion. DKK – 11 000 for each ordinary family in this country per year. The centre party on its side will cooperate with parties that will send the same families and Norwegian companies a tax return of several tens of billion dollars. This is not a responsible policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1324	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1329	During this tax debate it has almost been drawn a picture that it was Armageddon under the red-green government. That image might need to nuance a little bit. At least over the last five years, emissions from road transport have increased, differences between rich and poor in Norway have increased, child poverty has increased — over 100,000 children are now growing in poverty. Then maybe the red-green tax level wasn't quite as bad anyway. This is about priority. It's about us having a government that has chosen to spend 1.4 billion. kr to the country's 4,300 most wealthy. That's a priority. That is the priority of the government we have today. That wouldn't be the priority of a red-green government. I can say that with certainty. We would have had a tax system that prioritises redistribution and that prioritises reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1336	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1348	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting on the matter no. 1 and 2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1357	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 2, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposal No 3, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6-14, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 15, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 16-20, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 21, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens and Reds the proposals No 22 and 23, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party The President noted that proposal No. 2 will not be addressed to voting, as the proposal is contested earlier in the session as minority motion No. 3 into the innermost. 2 S for 2018-2019, cf. Article 38, fifth paragraph of the Rules of Procedure. The President would also draw attention to the fact that, during the debate, proposal No. 22, from the Workers' Party, amended. There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the current petroleum tax system, including the light-refusion system, and to return to the Storting appropriately.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1408	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 19, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to determine and propose a revenue-neutral VAT exemption scheme for power-operated recreational craft and to assess different solutions to correspond to the sample surface, including an increase in the base charge on mineral oil or CO 2 differentiated one-off charge on recreational boats.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking for proposals to gradually amend the CO 2 tax for the entire maritime sector and to propose the introduction of a CO 2 tax without a refund scheme for the fishing fleet, with the possibility for the industry to enter into an agreement on the model of the NO X fund to implement reductions in emissions. The payment is differentiated according to the size of the vessel and the smallest part of the fishing fleet is favoured by increasing the deduction of the fish.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1444	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16, 18 and 20, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in its proposals for the 2020 State Budget to propose the introduction of CO 2 -differentiated one-off charge on boats, in order to promote energy efficiency improvement and the use of low and zero emission technologies.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks it to propose changes to the charging regime for trucks with a view to making the choice of low- and zero-emission technologies profitable and to propose such changes to the proposals for the State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to change the basic charge on drinking packaging for plastic bottles to an environmental charge on the use of materials graduated according to the amount of recycled or renewable material.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1476	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting a levy on the landfill of mineral resources, in order to prevent emissions and improve the exploitation of resources from mining activities.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1493	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Nine and ten from the Center Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the changes in taxation and reporting on benefits in kind adopted and to return to the Storting with a new proposal that takes account of the broad tax base, reduced red tape and simplification of reporting.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures that will result in the full phasing-out of high deforestation risk biofuels [[as palm oil]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1516	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 to 8 and 12, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asking the government to adjust the capitalisation rate of the property tax on hydroelectric power plants from 4,5 to 3 p.m. with effect from 2019 until a new calculation system for that rate is in place.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting in connection with the State budget for 2020 with a predictable calculation system for the capitalisation rate of the property tax on hydropower plants that takes account of market interest rates and ensures that, under current conditions, interest rates will be lower than current interest rates.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose the abolition of the maximum and minimum rules on property taxes on power plants.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a mechanism to ensure that Norwegian municipalities can obtain more reasonable loans by guaranteeing the State’s debt within the State budget for 2020.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1550	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11, 13 and 14 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks to assess whether the current natural gas charge of SEK 1.02/Sm 3 has a positive or negative environmental impact that it has, among other things, given. may prevent the passage from truck cargo to sea cargo of farmed fish and other goods and result in refuelling abroad and return to Stortinget late in the context of the State budget for 2020 with this assessment.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of access to venture capital in Norway, both public and private, and to make appropriate proposals for improvements.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the long-term SME discount in the capital adequacy requirements to strengthen the financing of SMEs’.» The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1582	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for unsubstantiated changes in the VAT law to ensure that health professionals must include VAT if they carry out alternative treatment.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking whether any of the members of the organisations currently registered in the Alternative Treatment Register can be considered to provide health care and come back to Stortinget with a bill that allows them to obtain exemption from the VAT Code.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1606	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests amendments to the regulation on country-by-country reporting to ensure that, in the context of the provision of expanded information, this is done in line with annual accounts and irrespective of the materiality limit.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1623	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a proposal to wind up the neutral VAT system in health businesses in the context of the State budget for 2020.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1638	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to adjust the capitalisation rate of the property tax on hydropower from 4,5 p.p. to 4 pst. with effect from 2019 until a new calculation system is in place.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e1656	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as amended: ‘The government asks the government to wind up the Individual Pension Saving Scheme from 2020.’» [[IPS]] The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e8987	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e9003	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 2-4, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 5, from Vetle Wang Soleim on behalf of Right, Party of Advances, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 6, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party The President noted that proposal No. 1 will not be addressed to voting, as the proposal is contested earlier in the session as minority motion No. 5 into the innermost. 2 S for 2018-2019, cf. Article 38, fifth paragraph of the Rules of Procedure. The President also drew attention to the fact that proposal No. 6 during the debate. In order to reduce the number of votes, the President will propose a unified voting order. The main positions of the different batches are clearly highlighted in the settings and shown in addition to the Input. 2 S for 2018–2019 and Innst. 3 S for 2018–2019. It will in practice mean that when we have voted on minority proposals, none of the parties will vote against the vote's recommendation. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against a party on a later occasion. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Property Tax Act which exempt all owners of buildings which are either protected under the Cultural Memory Act or regulated under the Planning and Building Act from municipal property tax.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e9043	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess how to ensure equal treatment between listed and unlisted companies in the property tax, i.e. their valuation does not differ systematically in favour of unlisted companies as it is in today’s system.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e9060	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose other tax relief models that can contribute to the smooth maintenance of buildings that are either protected by the Cultural Memory Act or regulated by the Planning and Building Act.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e9077	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Right, from the Party of Advancement, from the Left, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with a bill that provides municipalities that merge into a new municipality predictability of the property tax income from hydropower, wind power and process facilities and that facilitates their continuation in the new municipality after aggregation. The change in the rules must not lead to abrupt increases in the property tax on dwellings, recreational dwellings or commercial property from one year to another.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10582	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10592	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10621	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: The Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party and the Centre Party 10 minutes and the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party 5 minutes. In addition, members of the government are given 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to four lines of reply from the main figures of the parties and six lines of response from members of the government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10634	‘When the networks become long and cold’, there is time for budgetary debates and we are now looking forward to going through the field of the Education and Research Committee. More than 1.5 million people in Norway have their everyday lives in the education system and are affected by our debates and decisions. Every harvest begins tens of thousands in kindergarten, in elementary school, in secondary school, in upper secondary school, as an apprentice, or they start higher education at colleges, colleges or universities. Our goal as politicians is to make sure that as many of them as possible get through kindergarten and education in a good way, that they get a job, and that they get the opportunity to become participating and value-creating citizens in society. To do this, we depend on the efforts of all dedicated employees working with our children. They're the ones who get everyday walking around, whether they work like teachers, school managers, cleaners, janitors, assistants or anything else. These are people who deserve to boast. In Norway, the vast majority of parents and children are satisfied with the offer they receive, and it is important to remember. But unfortunately there are also some things that are dissatisfied, and we're going to take that seriously. In a class of 20 first-graders that started at the school this fall, there will be four, five or six of them that do not pass through higher education statistically. That's an too high number. Our goal is to complete nine out of ten, and to achieve that goal, we have launched a series of measures that we will further strengthen in next year's budget. In kindergarten, we have introduced reduced parental pay and free core time for those who earn least, so that more people can get the opportunity to go to kindergarten and get a better start on their education. In 2019 this will also apply to two-year-olds. We've introduced a staffing standard in kindergarten, which will provide higher quality. It shall apply from 1 August 2019. We have an obligation to improve cooperation in the transition from kindergarten to school, so that the school will be better able to adapt to each individual student. In school, we have worked with an early effort in the form of several teachers of 1. -4. Steps, and we have adopted the right to intensive training, so that assistance is provided when the need is notified. We have introduced a stricter bullying law, so that more students don't mind going to school, and in 2019 we spend 115 million. kr for this work. The most important single factor for a good school is good teachers. That's why we've started the teacher's vow, where we make higher demands to become a teacher, we've turned the teacher's education into a master's degree, and we've called for immersion in the subjects you teach. 7 200 teachers are further trained in the autumn, against approx. 1500 in 2013. We continue with a high commitment to continuing education in 2019, and we now see a 15 pst. increase in teacher studies. In cooperation with the profession and the sector, new curricula are now being developed, with the aim of better learning and deeper learning. I'm convinced that the improvements we've made and made in kindergarten and school will help more people complete high school. We see that it is the greatest challenge to get professionals to complete, which is due to both the content of school and the lack of apprenticeships. We are now developing a new supply structure for the professions, so that they are better suited to the needs of the business community, and we are working on common subjects in such a way that education and training is more adapted to the profession to be pursued. I don't know if the minister has been inspired by the play 'Putti Plutti Pott' and 'Julienissens beard', where they sing the song 'Stikke-sage-lime-banke', but at least there's a change, because those who are going to be carpenters will get more time for just this already in the first year. But there will still be thousands of learning places missing, and it's cutting my heart, because this is about young people not completing their education. All enterprises request qualified qualified qualified personnel. Nevertheless, we see that too many companies do not take social responsibility by taking in apprentices. It's going to have to be a change of something. If no one else takes that responsibility, it will not be skilled labour to recruit from, and here we have to find good, flexible solutions. We do a lot. Since 2013, we've spent almost 600 million dollars. kr in the professions. We have increased the apprenticeship grant seven times by a total of NOK 21 000 per contract, and we have requested the use of apprentices in public and public tenders. The result is that we are now seeing a record increase in applicants for a professional course, the absence is reduced, the drop-out is falling, it seems to be becoming more apprentices for the third consecutive year, and we are planning to beat the record in apprenticeships from 2017. But I expect that business is also its responsibility consciously, and that even more take in apprentices in the years to come. With that, I recommend the Committee's proposal for a decision in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10662	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10667	The government has proposed to change the student support conversion scheme. In reality, it means a cut in the grant scheme of 256 million. kr. This has led to major protests from students, principals, institutions, teacher’s organisations and educational students. One of the reasons they protest is that, through various cuts from the government in recent years, students have ended up paying more and getting cut more than they have received back in student support. I understand they're responding to that. But in today's business, we can read that the students are staying. The Youth of Advancement Party has been out saying the same thing that the students are sussing. So far I haven't seen any tone-setting politicians in the Progress Party distance from this, so my question is simply to the representative of the Progress Party: does he also think that the students are stalling when they protest against the scholarship cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10672	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10677	It's both an alarming and a surprising answer, because there's a lot of reasons to protest at this scholarship. I notice that the Progress Party thinks that the students are suspending, but it is thus punishing students who do not complete a degree or who change direction along the way in the studies. There will be a disincentive to increase the rate of continuing education and training, and there is also great doubt that it will lead to better implementation. But what's upsetting many, and that also rebels against the Workers' Party, is the distribution profile on this. The government introduces large tax cuts, not least cut in the wealth tax, to those who have the most, while sending the bill for student action to the students themselves. I have to add that the Workers' Party has now proposed the student budget of the times without cutting the students. My question to the representative Steffensen is: Why is the logic of government and the Progress Party that students should be motivated by getting less, while the richest should be more motivated by getting more back?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10684	It's wrong that the students get less, because the students actually get more. This government has introduced 11 months of student support, and we have increased the overall monthly student support, so that this year the students will actually have 11 600 more than they had when we took over. The changes we have proposed are a sensible move, because we see that despite having free higher education, that we have good access to student housing, and that we may have the world's best loan and scholarship arrangements, we are well below average in getting students to complete their studies. Only six out of ten do so in Norway, while eight out of ten do so in the rest of OECD countries. So the changes won't have any consequences for the students while they're studying. They'll notice it when they get out of work, and they'll have to pay a little more then, but at the same time they'll benefit from the tax relief that this government has put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10689	The committee writes something very nice in the setting. A writer: ‘In all parts of the country, a wide range of studies are needed to ensure equal rights to education and to meet the needs of working and social life.’ I also want to add to the business needs. At the same time, we now see that several of the merged universities and universities are struggling, and there are discussions at both Nord University and the University of Southeast Norway about shutting down campers and centralising the study offer. This could mean that we can be left with e.g. with one campus in Northernland and one in Trøndelag. That means that three out of four campers in my constituency will be closed. This could mean that campers in Telemark, Buskerud and Vestfold will be closed. Part of this is the result of a biased basic funding of these new colleges and universities. My question to the representative is: How do the Progress Party and the representative Steffensen view the fact that there is a separation between study offers and local labour market and business?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10701	Of course, we are following developments in the sector, because there is no doubt that when we started the structural reform, the objective was to improve quality, not to make places of study disappear. That was the whole main objective, because we have also been concerned that Norway as a whole should have access to high-quality education. So we follow the situation carefully, and we hope that we can make sure that there are no places to study, because that was not the goal of the structural reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10706	It's hard to see what's really the Party's school policy. My impression is that they're basically just dilting after the Minister of Knowledge and the Right, and it seems as if the outline of the Progress Party is saying: then, when he says Sanner, we do it every single bitty morning. Could the representative explain why they have gone away from the SVS and the Progress Party's clear common goal of a maximum price in kindergartens, and once again increases the payment of parents to kindergarten? It was a joy when the Christian People's Party finally managed to increase the child's fear, but then the young children's parents now feel that the government is giving with one hand, and then they take more and more with the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10714	It is a bit strange to hear SV criticise us, because at the same time they have also increased the maximum price in kindergartens with a total of approx. NOK 600 from the 2013 level. I have not recorded that they have fallen to the 2013 level in their budget. But what we've chosen to do about kindergarten is that we've increased the maximum price a little bit, so we're going to have room to reduce for those who earn the least, among other things. through reduced parental payment and free core time. Thus, when reduced parental pay was up in this room in 2014, in view of its introduction in May 2015, SV voted against giving reduced parental pay to those who earn the least. I thought that was very disappointing and surprising, because I thought it was part of the basic idea of SV's policy that it was those who had the least, who would get the most support.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10721	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10726	The working party wants a school where students learn more and thrive better – a school that sees the whole student. That is why we are proposing a budget that is more ambitious and more offensive, on behalf of the children, the parents, the students and the apprentices. When the government's government budget was presented, we were surprised that the government would not pay for the standard of living in the kindergarten, and that they did not provide a single new place of study. Prioritising new cuts in wealth taxes in front of kindergartens or future education is a little forward-looking. But where the government seems to have lost some of the spark of education policy, the Workers' Party will continue the efforts we think are important, and increase the ambitions in those areas where we see challenges. The Labour Party proposes to invest significantly more in children and students, early work and mastering, vocational and vocational education, higher education and research in its alternative budget. We are concerned that the scope of action in the economy should be used to ensure more staff for children in kindergarten and in school, to ensure better quality throughout the education cycle and to provide more opportunity to study and acquire the skills needed. It is important both for young people in need of education and for the development of new industries and technologies to ensure adequate employment in health, school and business. It is pointless to talk about early efforts without providing quality in kindergarten, because then you will only ‘dancing around in the ring, ring, ring’ – without results. The working party will consume 580 million. kr more than the multi-site government, multiple pedagogues, lower kindergarten prices and increased quality through several adults for all children. We want the money that goes to the kindergarten to be spent on the children. We will come to life unacceptably and support under the ideal kindergartens. That is why we propose a small reduction in the contribution to private kindergartens while fully financing the standard of crews by 400 million. kr. As a result, small and ideal kindergartens come out in favour, while we send out a clear message to the commercial groups that large profits are not acceptable. We increase the efforts of the youngest in school through early efforts and resources for reading, writing and computing guarantees, so that the follow-up becomes more than words. The working party will give the youngest children the games back and enable the school better to have varied activities through a new bet on games. We want new equipment in high school to ensure more practical learning. For the Workers' Party, it is obvious that students need to learn with both their heads and their hands. We prioritise school food for all students in front of the storehouse. We want a school that sees the whole student. Giving all students food in the stomach gives better health, better concentration and better learning. The government says no, but they forgot a word: you can't talk about learning or food – it's learning and food. One in seven students goes to school without a lunch. Therefore, this is also a measure to balance differences, while facilitating health and learning. A school that sees the whole student needs teachers who see the students. Pedagogues do not descend into hiding entirely by themselves, and there will be no paradise green if the government continues in the ladder they have chosen. Students need more teachers with education — no more unqualified in classrooms. For the Workers' Party, it is obvious that there needs to be a stronger effort to recruit for teacher training, but also to get more people to complete their education and more to actually work at school. This is why we are proposing both to improve teacher training, with more practice and closer follow-up, and also to launch a national recruitment campaign for more teachers, especially more men. This is urgent. We cannot sit and humiliate «times must come; times must run away». There is now a need for action. In its budget, the Labour Party also wants a great professional boost, which can give more proud trade union workers across the country. We want a real competence reform, where the state takes a greater part of the fissure layer. We also propose a student budget of more than 1 billion. kr more for actions for the students, and we do so without asking the students to pay for it themselves. Overall, the investment in school and education is a winner in the Alternative State Budget of the Workers Party. In contrast, the Minister of Knowledge does not seem to have won the budgetary battle internally in the government. It is not education that is the great winner of the government's government budget. On the contrary, we see that the government's policy is to a large extent that there are others who have to take responsibility and who have to take account of the challenges facing school and working life. Children’s families themselves have to pay for the educational norm by increasing the nursery price. Students themselves have to pay for increased student support through cuts in the scholarship. The standard of manpower must be paid by the municipalities and by private individuals for themselves. The government wouldn't put a single penny on the table. In the reform of competence, the government believes that companies themselves must take responsibility for the enhancement of their staff. Everyone agrees, but they do not want the state to take its part and join in and pay, as the Labour Party proposes. About school food, the Right says that this is the parents' responsibility, even though they know that not all parents send food packages with their children. This is not actionable. It's a discharge. When right-wing boasts of important issues in school policy, it is symptomatic that they promote action others have taken in favour of. There is a lot of talk in the media about the dual communication of the Progress Party, where they operate in practice as two parties: one in government and one in opposition. Another part of the solstberg parliamentarianism that is less widely spoken of is that this government consistently boasts of policies that have been imposed on them by others. On several occasions, the majority of Stortinget has forced the government to implement policies such as: The Right Party and the Progressive Party have argued strongly against this. Paperwork is a good example. Now the Minister for Children and Family travels the country and sung in the shine of increased paperwork, as she herself and the Right thought was a coercion. Introducing a standard of teacher's density at school was and is a battle cause for the opposition parties at Stortinget. The right side and the front side fought with beaks and claws. Now the tone has changed. Now the right of the teacher norm they actually opposed. This chameleon behaviour is quite transparent and shows that government does not lead the way in education policy, but adapts to the majority who take the initiatives, and the issues they see are popular. I wish they had thought this way in a few more cases, for example. by giving the students a Christmas present in the form of a change to the scholarship or by not increasing the nursery price for the families with children. The Labour Party proposes a more ambitious and offensive policy – with a budget that responds to the challenges, which bets without asking families of children, students, parents, businesses and others to take the bill, which prioritises what is important in school policy, thinking about distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10772	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10777	I'm taking up all the suggestions Worker Party is behind, both those we have with the Center Party and SV, and those we have with just SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10782	The representative Martin Henriksen has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10789	Professionally skilled and up-to-date teachers who closely follow the students are one of the most important things we can bet on for a good school. This we find solid support in research. Then it's striking to record that the red-green parts cut into the teacher's ability to update professionally. Where SV takes a half-billion cheese qualification in general continuing training of teachers, the Workers' Party targets its cut in continuing training in digitisation. This is not a view of knowledge and competence that Right-Parties share. It is not only useful to light ‘thousands of Christmas lights’ and to hope that the school – as the main institution to prepare students for the digital shift – is ready, because it is not enough with up-to-date equipment if you do not ensure that teachers can use it in a pedagogical way in teaching. Why does the Workers' Party choose to cut back on training for teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10794	This is a very strange interpretation of the budget. We have a greater commitment to continuing training for teachers in digital competence than the government has. We're re-prioritizing 20 million. kr within a continuous training pot of 1,6 billion. kr. The government's own cut in the government budget within the post-post-on-continuing education was more than three times as large as that. With regard to the government's commitment to digital learning, we can come back to that, but where the government draws its feet and has done it for a long time, even though the Storting has said that you want a new model to get more digital learning material in school. Where the government has collected a large number of posts in what they call the technological school bag, the Workers' Party has said that we need a real effort to ensure that we both get equipment, develop new learning materials in a free market and ensure that teachers have the necessary skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10801	It was a pretty creative production. The government has the same pressure on the number of people who will receive further training, but I note that the Workers' Party believes that such a targeted cut will not affect exactly what is involved in digital competence. A national survey conducted by Monitor in 2016 revealed that 75 pst. of today’s 7th class, ICT uses less than three hours a week at school, among others. because teachers are not safe for pedagogical use, in this case in maths. In fact, it is below the critical limit of four hours specified by the Directorate of Education as a minimum standard in order to achieve primary school competence objectives in a basic subject as math. Through the general digitisation of society, but also the forthcoming trade innovation, we see that the development of digital learning materials and new forms of teaching are speeding up. Professional immersion, but also new disciplines for all teachers will therefore be central if we are to be able to lift the digital area in Norwegian school. Does Henriksen still feel that it is proper to cut back on training in the field of digitalisation for teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10806	First, this is wrong. But with the exception of the question, the representative Gudmundsen is quite right. What I'm wondering about is why the government is dragging its legs and has not come with e.g. new arrangements for digital learning material and looking at the model of primary school. We have expressed ourselves critically to the NDLA. This has also been done in the past by the representative of Gudmundsen and the Right Party. That's where it happens very little. The development of digital learning materials, when compared with Denmark, is far too late. The efforts of the State budget are far from the government in its strategy of digitisation itself has said that one should have. The government’s strategy for digital development in school, which probably came two years ago, was almost bare for concrete action. The results are now visible — digital developments in schools are too late. Although the Minister of Knowledge likes to send analog Christmas cards, and that's nice, the students need more digital skills, and that's why we have proposed a bet that's many times larger than the government has provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10811	There is now a very important quality development work in Norwegian school with the innovation, perhaps the most important thing in ten years. It requires a tremendous amount of work from the sector, with many involved from the Department and the Education Directorate. With regard to the setting, it is proposed to cut the working party by 105 million. kr on these two. That's approximately equal to that. 16th pst. It might be up to 150 employees. Since it is not described what the cut will apply, do I wonder if it is the right time to reduce the crew by 150 people in the job renewal request? Does Henriksen think it's a nice Christmas gift to send to the staff in the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10817	Many people believe in miracles during Christmas, but that I should be standing here asking questions from the Progress Party about too much red tape, I had not seen it coming. We obviously believe that there are things that can be done both in the Ministry of Knowledge and in the Directorate of Education. That is why we have this proposal. I don't know what the government parties would call it, maybe a targeted efficiency and red tape cut instead of the general ABE cut that the government has been doing for several years, and that has now led to a total cut of about 1 billion. kr in the higher education sector. We believe it is possible to use the resources better, and I would have thought that the Progress Party would also have an understanding of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10822	In the Christmas song, it's called "your arms are coming small", but it's obviously not all small ones that are equally worth it for the Workers' Party. The representative himself pointed to a cut in the support for private kindergartens. Historically, a broad political majority in Norway has been open to a variety of owners in the kindergarten sector, both private, non-profit and municipal. It's been important both to get enough space and for quality. But in recent years the parties on the left have used increasingly tough rhetoric against the private kindergarten owners, despite the fact that they provide good quality services, and despite the fact that two-thirds of them do not have great profits. The working party has until now, I believe, been a little cautious about throwing itself at that rhetoric, and I am very pleased about that, but earlier in the fall Jonas Gahr Støre revealed that the main issue of the Workers' Party towards the local elections is to stop the commercialization of welfare. The lot follows this through a cut to the 85 million private kindergartens. kr. My question to the representative Henriksen is whether this is enough a sign that the Workers' Party is moving on in a socialist direction, and that they do not think it is necessary to thank those who were on it to carry the red-green kindergarten agreements on their shoulders.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10829	We recognize the job that private kindergartens do. Half of the country's kindergarten children go to private kindergartens, and we are concerned with diversity in the sector. That is why, with the Workers' Party's alternative budget, the small and ideal kindergartens would come out better than they do today, and much better than the government's proposals for the state budget. We're fully financing the crew standard by 400 million. NOK, where the government really wouldn't add a single penny. Then we have a cut of less than 1 pst. in the grant to private kindergartens. The standard of living is specifically designed for small and ideal kindergartens, so they will get out better than today, while the large commercial ones will receive somewhat reduced grants. We believe that it is right to send a clear message. The working party is worth 580 million. kr more in kindergarten than the government, including this cut. This will lead to increased quality, more places, lower kindergarten rates and more adults. I'm recording that the representative is nodding and smiling and is so happy, but she doesn't want money for the crew standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10834	The cord shift is over. The President suspects the Committee to have an internal competition for references to Christmas songs, but it is within. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10841	Yes, it is possible that the President is right in that assumption, because today we clapp to our hands, we sing and we laugh, because we are so happy, so happy when it is the four non-socialist parties that are behind the knowledge budget for 2019 as well. [[muttering in the hall]] Because it is the people we are going to live off in the future, and then it is especially gratifying to adopt a knowledge budget that does not cut into further education or career paths for teachers, which does not claim that early work and quality in higher education are important and at the same time cut into the grant to private kindergartens or into the competition programme for quality in higher education. On the contrary, today we adopt a budget that acknowledges that it is we and our children who represent the greatest value a society has. Since the government change in 2013, the Right in Government, together with the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party, has put in place a number of measures where we have gone from late efforts under the red-green to early efforts in the school, we are raising the quality of kindergartens, we are historically betting on the teachers and the professions. We see that the students learn more, and that our children are met by more capable teachers. Thus, in the 2015 PISA study, Norwegian students for the first time cut significantly better than the OECD average in both reading, science and mathematics. In TIMSS in 2015 Norwegian students at the 5th stage did very well in mathematics. Our children are significantly higher than peers in other Nordic countries and are among the best in Europe. So much goes straight to Norwegian school and kindergarten. The parental survey shows a high level of satisfaction with the quality of kindergartens, and at school students learn more, are more present, and several complete secondary education. But we're not on target. If we're going to succeed with early efforts, we're going to have to put a shock into the kindergarten. There is no contrast between learning and playing. Through targeted measures, it is gratifying to see more and more children go to kindergarten and participate in a professionally good and learning community. In particular, the large increase among those with a minority language background is positive. This contributes more strongly to good integration into society. In a few years' time, through our budgets, we have put in place schemes that guarantee free core time or reduced payment for children from low-income families. Thus, in 2019, the income limit is further increased, so that 6 500 more children are entitled to free core time, and now we are also expanding for 2-year-olds. It will contribute to increased child care use for low-income families and further contribute to better integration and language training among minority language children. With a good starting point from kindergartens, school starts are made easier, but also there we have to target the effort early. Against the votes of the Labour Party and the Red-Greens, we have now secured a majority in favour of the introduction of an obligation, so that schools must provide intensive training for 1–4 students. Steps that struggle with reading, writing and billing, for our goal is clear: all children must feel mastering early in school, so that no one stops raising their hands. We need to stimulate curiosity and the learning joy that all children bring into high school. Our commitment to the teacher is therefore central to raising the school. The parents out there should notice that red-green politics, where the Workers' Party is now at the front, determines that it is not so important that our children are taught by a teacher with depression, despite the fact that both the teacher himself and the research show that this gives a better school. For this reason, the Right in Government has provided a solid continuing training promise, and only since 2014 more than 27 000 teachers have received further training in a number of subjects. We also have to bet on the teachers who are reaching out for more challenges. Our commitment to the teacher-specialist system contributes to the further development of committed and skilled teachers in the school and continues to contribute to the classroom, and that they do not find career paths outside school or in the administration. In 2019 we will therefore receive a double of 1,200 teachers who can become teachers specialists, even here against the red-green voices, where among others. SV will terminate the system as a whole. There is little doubt, therefore, that the whole of a red-green school policy would not give the main focus on quality, knowledge and content in school. It is worth noting that we are now going to go a long way to give young people in Norway the best opportunities. When, for example, now also bets 8 million. kr on several doctoral degrees, it is among other things. for more teachers in school to have the opportunity to take a doctorate. This is how we contribute to the convergence of research knowledge and practices in schools. Our focus is on quality, on skilled teachers and on the ability to prioritize early, so that all children should feel mastery in school. That's how we contribute to learning and, not least, to learning joys, and to having more children meet well with the school and, not least, complete and pass their education course. It means who controls the knowledge policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10864	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10869	Norway is now experiencing a huge shortage of teachers, against which this government has been blindly heading. I notice that the representative is clapping his hands and laughing, but I'm afraid that he may have swung a little bit in the circle and become completely dizzy, because the teacher crisis we are now experiencing is completely out of control. I am particularly concerned that the proportion of unskilled teachers shooting in the weather. In classrooms by classrooms, school students are now met by unskilled temporary workers because of this government's policy. This teacher crisis has long been announced, but the government has not put any action on the table. My question is simply: Every year during this government, the number of unskilled temporary workers in school has increased – can students, parents and teachers expect that this proportion will fall next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10876	I hope that the Workers' Party has brought with it the massive effort we have in continuing training. There is no doubt that when you have such a big investment, it will require a few more temporary workers out in school – while we are involved in raising the skills of the many. In addition, I would like to point out the many measures we have taken in the field of teacher training when it comes to recruitment, but also through skills requirements and not least master's training, which have helped to ensure attractive students who now want to become teachers. It's very happy to see that politics works. When one in 10 applicants for higher education wants to be taught, and when we know that the starting point for these students is improved through admission requirements and thus contributes to increased implementation and throughput and to getting teachers and not just applicants, there is every reason to be optimistic on behalf of Norwegian students and Norwegian schools when it comes to the future and access to qualified, competent teachers with professional immersion – a bet I record that the Workers' Party is not as eager after.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10883	When the representative Gudmundsen sits in his office and writes his Christmas cards, he sits there and nods and smiles and is so happy, for more college places we should not have. My question relates to the fact that the NHO’s competence barometer calls for far more technical school places in the coming years. They want a clear prioritisation of vocational education and training. We need more proud trade union workers. Why does the government and the Right not listen to what the NHO and the business community are calling for: more vocational schools in 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10890	I would like to say that it is this government that has really listened to those who want to invest in vocational education and training, primarily through the great professional training we have had in higher education – we have made it more relevant. But, not least, after many years of starvation, we have received a vocational school report with a number of measures that really involve vocational school education – on the same line – in higher education. It helps us to get the quality promise and the education that businesses demand, which could deter so many today from higher education — and which might rather have taken a more practical and practical education through the vocational school sector. That's exactly why we've allocated a lot of money to quality development. We have also committed appropriations to several places of study, at the latest in the current year's budget. But it is important when you have such a really young sector as the vocational education sector that you are moving slowly, that you both ensure the quality of the studies that are there and lift the places of study. The government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10897	I could have continued my vocational education, because there are many fine words from the government, but it fails in its implementation. That's a little bit of a problem, but we're going to get back to that. I'm also going to ask the Right if what I think is the silent centralization we're facing in the field of higher education and the university sector, which is outsourced to the governments of universities and colleges, in line with the government's wish not to discuss political results of its own policy. There is no doubt that part of the background to this is the biased basic funding resulting from the entire reform of the university and higher education institutions. The progressing party said that they are following the process carefully and that they do not want centralisation. What does the Right mean? How do they feel that the need for nurses and teachers should be met if a number of places of study at the old colleges are laid down in the next few to three years?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10905	I notice that parts of the question from the Central Party challenge indirect autonomy of the university and higher education sectors when questions are asked about the decision-making competence of the boards. I believe that raises a number of other questions. - But I'll leave it. The point is, in any case, that today's government has had a massive investment in higher education, actually historically, and I see that a number of universities report liberal budgets. They have a number of offers that they're developing. In my own part of the country there is a campus both in the churches, in Alta, in Hammerfest, in Nord-Troms, in Harstad, etc. It offers both nurse training and teacher training, and there are many good decentralised services. I have also noticed that in the regional reform presented by the government, there are new opportunities for cooperation at regional level to ensure the monitoring of competence between the county authorities and the other educational institutions – and thus an opportunity to ensure a decentralised offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10912	Like the representative Tvidt Solberg, I want to point out the situation we have with the number of unskilled teachers in school, who just seem to be increasing and increasing under this government. I expected the representative from the government party on the right to spend more time in his long post saying something about the ambitions they have to get more qualified teachers and end up using unskilled people. In our part of the country, the situation is critical, and it is not just because existing teachers are in continuing training that we lack qualified teachers in the north. After recording from those who know where the shoe prints, SV has presented 13 concrete suggestions on how to get more qualified teachers. Could the representative say anything about how he intends to follow up on this, how he has thought that we should get more qualified teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10919	I record that one of the steps SV takes to get more qualified teachers is to reduce the requirements for qualification. I believe that in itself is quite objectionable given that our policy has proved to be effective. Looking at the recruitment measures undertaken by the government through grants to the North University and the University of Tromsø, they have led to record growth, and that of students who have undergone recording requirements. This means that we have a student mass that is much more capable of completing the education, and which can thus be completed as teachers with both master's education and immersion. It helps to improve the school's ability to meet new challenges. There I believe that we should be very clear. It is important that we focus on teacher training, and it is important that we set standards of quality, but we must not end up implementing only an adult standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10924	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10929	The budget proposal by the government is toothless, so to speak, bare for real bets. As mentioned earlier in the debate, there is no doubt that the Ministry of Knowledge was not the budget winner of the year at the conference. The Central Party's alternative budget proposals contain a number of clear and more concrete strengthening proposals. Our priorities show a more ambitious direction for education and how the school meets the students when times go by. Let me start with the youngest students. We propose full funding of the personnel standard in kindergartens. Research is quite clear — to succeed in the educational cycle, more needs to be done with educational learning in kindergarten, and the social and emotional characteristics must grow and unfold during schooling. There must be enough adults there to stimulate both practical and theoretical skills. The Centre Party took the initiative to review the six-year reform in order to provide better care for the smallest students. We are pleased that the Storting joined this, and we have great expectations for the government's review. Furthermore, we add funds to more physical activity in school and also celebrate that the government will now be involved. In addition, we believe camp school with open-air life and another week is so important that we want to introduce a grant for camp school education for all students. Students grow as much in a week's camp school as two years in school, say more teachers. In addition, there is a need for investment in the team around the student. With 3.5 billion dollars. extra to the municipalities, the Centre Party enables the schools to employ more teachers, more health sisters and brothers, and generally gives them more room for action. We can never have such ambitions for new curricula and greater density, but it doesn't help much if the municipalities and the school owners don't have the money to pay. This also provides funds for staffing and temporary work while the teacher's staff is required to continue their training. The centre party gives the municipalities and the school leaders confidence and the opportunity to further develop School-Norway. In addition, funds are earmarked for work on sexuality, language-shared classes, reading stimulation and student training for the blind, partially syndicated and hearing-impaired. There must be ceiling height for students with different characteristics, assumptions and interests. The pressure to fit into a template we have to do less. We need realists and creative students. Therefore, all secondary school students should have a vocational background and good advice for further education. Supply of sea food at Vardø secondary school is an example of future competence. The centre party has been talking for very many years about the profession in general and vocational education in particular. The government parties talk very much about professional subjects without giving resoundings like jingle bells in bets. It was therefore surprising with such a weak draft budget for vocational training in the years of vocational training. The centre party takes vocational training seriously with its extensive professional package of 300 million. kr for a real professional lift. It is about the organisation of vocational students with specific challenges, as well as the hosting of businesses and relevant training equipment. Out-of-date equipment is demotivating. We want to increase the educational grant, and the provision of apprenticeships should be much better. The dialogue and follow-up between school and apprenticeship activities must be closer. Production schools are also important and an alternative for dropout students who can regain motivation through practical tasks. In higher education, both specialised schools, colleges and universities are central and important. More places of study are needed. The government is failing when the screaming need for, among other things, Post-secondary and ICT candidates report the most. When the nets become long and cold for the students during the examination period, it also does not help that the conversion of loans to scholarships has become a more urgent option to get through. Remunerated among us, the government must save money. With the Center Party, we had a more practical and active education policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10952	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10957	The representative Knutsdatter Strand took up many interesting perspectives in his post, but there was little focus on how to ensure that all children meet a good school, which gives them the best education they can get, no matter where they live. An important element of quality work in school is undoubtedly the Directorate-General for Education — not least in providing the school owners and schools with all the information they need in order to ensure good quality in school, and in order to achieve a high level of quality, such as vocational renewal and structural changes. Large municipalities with a large educational seat, such as Oslo, can do a lot on your own, but what about smaller municipalities with few or no own employees in the school administration? Can the representative Knutsdatter Strand tell me how the Center Party will ensure good quality in school in small and large municipalities across the country, while cutting the appropriations for the Education Directorate at over 38 million. kr, corresponding to well over 50 years – a reduction of nearly 20 pst. for the Directorate of Education?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10966	There's nothing as pleasant as getting a question when I bring up the Central Party's wish for services near people across the country. Our re-priority from the Education Directorate to the municipalities is quite conscious, precisely in order to be able to build up this competence and these services to a greater extent in the municipalities rather than in the bureaucracy in Oslo. This is a completely conscious redistribution, which we also deal with when it comes to e.g. national tests. We think it's a resource use that doesn't serve the students. Rather, we should have a team around the students, and we should have resources to follow them up where they are – instead of operating with firefighting and data collection in the Education Directorate. The centre party has great confidence that municipalities can do this job, that it is not about size or population, but that it is actually about giving them the opportunity, trust and economic space to provide the services they are required to provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10973	This, I think, was a very good explanation of how the Center Party is going to weaken the quality of Norwegian school. We have many municipalities, including: Vestre Slide in the representative Knutsdatters Strand's own county, and we have Hurdal in my county, Akershus, who has one or no employees in the school administration. With some increase in the local authority's capacity to act, it will be impossible to build up the competences of the Directorate of Education. How are small municipalities supposed to be able to implement the new curricula without receiving that assistance? How should they be able to obtain information to ensure that they can actually apply measures where necessary, when they do not know the situation in their own municipality? I wonder how the representative Knutsdatter Strand believes you should be able to build up a corresponding competence. These 20 pst. staff members of the Directorate of Education are not sitting and do not wash inch eights. They're doing an important job for the whole of School Norway. How in all the world are small municipalities going to be able to do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10978	There is no personal turning point on the part of the Central Party towards the individual employees of the Directorate of Education. On the contrary – we would like to see more of them actually employed in West Slides, in Hurdal and around the country and the job as school leaders and professionals closer to school, the students and the everyday life out there. When we re-prioritize by 3.5 billion. kr, there is no doubt that there are many school leaders around the country. The centre party wants a completely different priority in terms of just competence and quality, because we want to have confidence in the teachers out there – instead of imposing skills demands retrospectively, which means that thousands of teachers who have worked for many years in the school community are not now considered to be skilled at school. It's not a resource usage that the centre party is behind. We would rather have continuing training and a strengthening of the teaching staff in the subjects they think they need it. There were long queues and few funds for continuing training from before, and nothing is getting better now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10985	As I said in my post, this government of five years has spent almost 600 million. kr in the professional sector. We have increased the apprenticeship grant seven times, with a total of NOK 21 000 per contract, and we have introduced requirements for apprentices in public and public tenders. Nothing of this was done under the red-green. For professionals, there was nothing to shout for. When we hear in the post that we are not betting on professional subjects, I am interested in knowing: what is the judgment of what the red-greens did in their years, when this was almost silent? And if we're going to assume that it's the Center Party among the Red-Greens trying to do something for the professions, I wonder, was it the Workers' Party or SV that was the brake block in the red-green years?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10991	Several of the initiatives undertaken in the field of vocational education and training are widely agreed on. We can be pleased with that, and the position of the Committee in this budget also shows that we all want a lift for the professions. But it's also about what concrete economic priorities we're doing. When we see that the government is adding up to 30 million. kr in pure professional training and the Centerpartiet this year delivers 300 million. kr, we will put it in perspective and say that we are doing a much better job and set of money to go to new and more actions. We may be satisfied with a lot of things that have been done, but we're not talking about the snow that fell last year. Now we want to bet on ahead. We'll get more for the professions. It's the years of the profession, and we're going to keep celebrating it. We need professional skills, and we also need more people going to college. Neither does the government provide any more places of study, so here we have a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e10998	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11003	No one should have to live life with lua at hand. Equal rights to education and equal opportunities for education are one of the pillars of Norwegian society. Education is the most important tool we have for dithering, inclusion and value creation. It's about what kind of opportunities people in this country should have. It is a policy for the many, not for the few. Society shall take responsibility for the ability of all children to attend a school where they have access to knowledge and where they thrive. A child is not prepared for the future by being able to ram as many cities as possible in Belgium in the shortest possible time, and although it is nice to know that a child is born in Bethlehem, what they need, depth learning to understand the core of the subjects, see the context across disciplines and learn how to use new knowledge. By continuing to build on the inclusive common school, SV will develop the school in a direction that will make greater use of practical, varied and active learning, and where there is room for both creativity and culture. Such a modernisation of the school will require reorganization and large investment, both in several teachers, so that there will be more time to follow up each child, and in a school adapted to the fact that children are children, with the need to play, move, be creative and get offers of free and healthy school food. The school's evaluation has shown us that it has become too theoretical and unified, and the right-hand side's exaggerated belief that testing, ranking, competition and control should lead to more knowledge, out-of-date and old-fashioned. It is to renew the school that SV will introduce the full-day school and a more practical and varied school day to replace today's SFO and homework. In its alternative budget, SV proposes to start the phase-in of such a school day by introducing an additional hour in practical-esthetic subjects and free cultural school offerings for 1–4 students. steps. For the 5-7 students. Steps are taken to increase the time of school practice with teachers, so that students can get more help from their teacher and have homework when they come home. For young people, we start introducing free and healthy school food and support the goal of one hour of physical activity, as the Stortinget has actually decided. The importance of movement and nutrition for children to grow, learn and develop is confirmed by research, and thus the full-day school is a reform for learning, social cohesion and public health. But if we're to succeed in the introduction of all day school, we also have to increase the teacher's density, because more qualified teachers are a prerequisite for success in such a school. The teacher is the most important single factor for pupils' learning in school. Despite broad cross-political agreement on the importance of qualified teachers, teaching shortages have increased in recent years. The number of persons employed in teaching positions who teach in primary school without approved teacher training has increased by 40 pst. under this bourgeois government. The consequence is that for 1.5 million school hours, children and young people are taught by non-educated teachers. SV has proposed to allocate 210 million in its alternative budget. kr to a national initiative to recruit and retain more teachers. Otherwise, I have noticed Right's lack of ambition to recruit more teachers. Instead, they are trying febrilely to turn the search light on SV and suspect us not to be concerned about competence. It is – with respect to reporting – customs duty. There was an SV in the government that started a permanent system of continuing training and a large-scale training of Norwegian teachers. But since I have noticed that the Right wants to appear high and dark in this matter and to appear as the competence party, I expect that today they will support our proposal in the Chamber on the right and duty of continuing training. I am therefore addressing the proposals we have made on the occasion of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11026	The representative of Mona Fagerås has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11033	There were a lot of nice words here, and I might start by asking the representative why SV does not meet almost any of his election promises in his alternative budget. There is not enough money at all to introduce physical activity, full-time schooling, school food or increased pay for teachers. There are small amounts in the budget compared to what it will cost. What I really wanted to ask the representative is a total cut of 500 million. SEK for continuing training of teachers. It is quite ok that SV is opposed to competence requirements, but being against competence requirements is not the same as being against continuing education and training – at least what I have heard for a very long time. Many teachers want continuing education, the teachers' organizations want it, three times as many teachers have got it, 10,000 applied for this year. So my question to the representative of Fagerås is not why she is opposed to competence requirements – my question is: Why does she suddenly believe that over 2,000 fewer teachers will be offered continuing education next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11040	SV wants to spend the big money on the little kids. And as I explained in my article, we will start with an introduction to the full-time school. That is, we want to spend more hours on creativity, we want to spend more hours on homework, we want to spend more hours in school on physical activity, and we want to go to school. It's SV's big project, and it's money that we spend on the kids, just to be honest. It's a question we have to ask ourselves in this room, and it's: are the teachers we have today, not good enough, or is it a bigger problem – a much bigger problem – that under this government the proportion of unqualified teachers increased by 40 pst.? I don't think the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde would send his child to an unqualified teacher, but it's probably okay for others to send it to an unqualified teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11047	I will follow up a bit of what the representative Tybring-Gjedde asked about. SV writes in its alternative budget that good teachers are important, and that they want a package of measures to recruit and keep more teachers. We find it a little strange in the Progress Party that SV does not welcome further education for teachers and school leaders ten thousand times, but only cut this post by 500 million. kr. The large-scale investment in continuing training, where teachers receive both financial support and leave from work to meet increased quality requirements, is a success. This autumn more than 7 000 teachers receive further training. It is twice as many as in 2014. The continuing training effort has led to more than 20 000 teachers having completed further training. My question to the representative of Fagerås is whether SV will end the training exercise that is now so well started in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11056	When it comes to presenting their alternative budgets, the various parties have to base their policies. If SV had come to power, some of the first thing we would have done – and it was actually some of the first thing I suggested when I came into the Stortinget last year – was to remove the decision to give the competence requirements retroactively. Proposaling cuts in the means of empowerment is not about, as the Right Party and the Advance Party here today are trying to create the impression that we are opposed to empowerment. We spend a lot of money in our alternative budget for raising competences, but we're trying to make a political disagreement visible in two fields. First of all, we don't want to use competences for teachers who are already educated. Secondly, the number of unskilled people has a 40 pst increase. under this bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11061	Now the first two lines have focused on the quality of teachers. I thought I'd go on and talk a little bit about quality in higher education, which is a field in which SV has traditionally been engaged, but in which the representative was not in his post, so now she gets a chance to say something about it as well. One of the main initiatives in the government’s long-term research plan is to increase the quality of higher education, and an important tool for success is the Directorate for Internationalisation and Quality Development in Higher Education, Diku. It was set up in 2018 and the objective is, inter alia, to: engaging and stimulating the sector to develop and share good education. In the State budget, the government proposes to increase the appropriations by 25 million. to stimulate quality in higher education. This suggests that SV cut its alternative budget. What they are actually cutting are several new centres of excellence, for which the government's increase was proposed. I don't think students or employees clapping in their hands, singing or laughing over such a cut, and my question to SV is simply: why do they think it's right to cut one of the most important measures to increase the quality of education for the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11078	It's kind of festive that we should get questions about cutting students from the left, because what has happened as long as the left has been a support party for the government and now the last year has been in government? Yes, it is that today's government has cut approx. 1 billion. to the students. The last cut, at 254 million. kr – was the reason why the students had to go out on the streets and protest in 20 of the country’s cities last Thursday. What's a pleasure, as the students have experienced, is 11 months of study support. But figures from the Ministry of Knowledge show that the government parties, with the Left and Christian People's Party, have taken this money from the students. So once again they take one hand and give very little back to the students with the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11086	In the SV's draft budget, it is proposed to cut the entire capital contribution to private schools by 63 million. kr. This is a known grant to cover a small proportion of the costs of keeping and operating school premises. By cutting this grant, the cost of each student will increase through increased student pay. Then my question is: is it a crazy policy on the part of the SV that parents' wallets are more likely to decide whether to afford to go to private school?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11093	One of the finest things about Norwegian society is that all kids meet across communities, across their source, across skin color, religion, and whatever it is, in the common school. SV believes that the inclusive common school needs to be strengthened so that all children and young people receive a training offer regardless of where they live and the economic background from which they come. That's why we give primary school so much priority, and we believe and believe that it's a value in itself that as many of our kids as possible go to primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11098	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11103	Hundreds of thousands of children appear in Norwegian classrooms every day. They meet a everyday life that is very similar in many ways, but also very different. Most people go to public school, and they follow the same curriculum, but each school is influenced by the municipality in which it is located, the community of which it is a part, and the people who populate it. Some go into big classes, some go into small ones. Some have small, asphalted schoolyards, others have kilometres of skiers right outside the school gate. Some have their own iPad, some have a data room that you can borrow a couple of times a week. Some have a large school library, and others have a reading hook. Some have a teacher with a master's degree who loves his job and is still taking a new course. Others have an unskilled person who might prefer to do something else. Some of them are to be on Christmas service during these days, while others are almost not afraid to sing ‘On the lock sitter’. Much of this diversity lives well with us. Much of that is good, but not all. It's not okay that not everyone meets a qualified teacher, and it's not okay that not all students get the opportunity to master digital tools. We should not accept that some states and some municipalities systematically have worse results than others in completely basic skills. All children shall have equal opportunities, irrespective of where they live and who are their parents. The key to balancing these differences is not about more detailed governance from the state, more lawmaking of different good purposes or more designation of state resources. The key lies with those who each day meet these students: the teachers. For this reason, the core of the school policy of the Left has been to bet on the teacher for many years, and the main effort in this state budget is just more and even better teachers. In recent years, the Left has contributed to a historically strong commitment to the further training of teachers through budgetary comparisons. A total of 27 000 teachers across the country have been offered further training from 2014 until today. This autumn, more than 7 000 teachers will continue to be trained. In the 2019 budget, we're going to have a total of $1.6 billion. kr to this bet. And still we know that there are more people who want to take it than those who get it, so this escalation should just continue, which one then does in this state budget. It gives us more competent teachers, more inspired teachers, and it increases students' learning outcomes. We have also been concerned about creating new career paths in school. It can't be that the only career path for ambitious, professionally qualified teachers is to become the headmaster. Investment in the teacher-specialist scheme, which in this budget is escalated by 50 million. kr, is an example of how we can create such career paths. The system can certainly be further developed and improved, but the core of it is important. It is about competence both at the individual and at the college of teachers at a school. Another example is that we now have PhDs for teachers in school who want to take a doctorate. In addition to being a career path, it will also be an important contribution to more practical research, more knowledge of what is going on in Norwegian classrooms, which we sorely need. In the same way that we have to ensure that all children have a good schooling regardless of background, the Left has also been committed to ensuring that all children are able to go to kindergarten. In the last period, through the budgetary comparisons with the government, we had introduced free core time or reduced payments for kindergartens for children between three and five years of age from low-income families. Now, when the Left is in government, we're proposing to allocate $46 million. kr to extend the free core time once again, to two-year-olds. The income limits for free core time were also raised, and with these extensions, 46 500 children from low-income families will be offered free or very cheap nursery facilities. It will improve integration and language training among multilingual children. But kindergarten is about more than just getting a place. It's about quality, and the key to quality is probably adults and adults with good competence. With this state budget, we're going to allocate 160 million. kr more for several kindergarten teachers, 9 mill. DKK for recruitment measures and 10 million. kr to new study places for kindergarten teachers. For us, diversity in the kindergarten sector is also important. We need the municipal kindergartens, we need the little ideal independent kindergartens and we need the big professional actors. 'All I want for Christmas' is a new high school. That's something that Left has traditionally fought into the state budgets, and this year the National College went to Svalbard. In general, we believe that higher education institutions are an important offer in the Norwegian education sector, and a new national college at Svalbard will provide a unique and exciting offer that can contribute to increased knowledge and attention in the north, creating new jobs and increasing the proportion of Norwegian residents. Norwegian school is on the right track. The students learn more, and there are several who complete and pass higher education. But there's still too many who fall off, too many who don't exploit their potential, and too many who don't thrive. Then we need more of what works, and not new fixation. Delicious is the government, devious is the Sanner and Nybø budget – rejoice, every soul they have saved!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11131	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11136	‘One was to be four years in the Rome Christmas’, but when the advent roof is picked up in the thousands of homes for young children, the happy message of Christmas comes from the government that the kindergarten will be more expensive next year. The working party will not increase the nursery price. The left, on the other hand, thinks it's okay and justifies the price increase because they want to give more to the families with the lowest income. It's a good recipient, but why do the grandchildren most choose to finance the redistribution? A child is born in Bethlehem, but there are too few children born in Norway, and it can in the long run weaken the sustainability of the welfare community. Would it not have given a better redistribution effect and been a better socio-economic incentive to take money away from them with a more liberal economy, i.e. those with high income and wealth?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11141	Thank you for the question. One of the most important priorities for the Left in recent years has been to ensure that all children have access to kindergarten, and therefore we have secured free core time. This means, in practice, free half-day space for those who have incomes that are lower than approx. 530,000, if I remember correctly, and as I said in my post, this now applies to 46,500 children. Much has been taken through real priorities in the government budget, but one of the ways we finance this expansion is that everyone else, those with normal and high incomes, has to pay a fifty-minute more a month. In fact, I believe that we can all afford that. For us, it is important to give priority to those who need it the most, and with this measure we ensure that absolutely all children in Norway can afford to go to kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11146	The representative Melby and Left have been concerned with the quality of kindergartens, and we have agreed to introduce a standard for staffing and pedagogical work in kindergartens. However, the Centre Party has expressed some uncertainty and has wanted one to postpone its implementation by one year, because there has been a great deal of uncertainty about funding. And now we have it confirmed, both from the private and public kindergartens, that the government's draft budget means that there is a significant underfinancing of the crew reform. Then it doesn't help that much with 160 million. kr in increments when they say that it is underfunded with almost half a billion kroner. What significance does the representative, Mr Melby and Mr Left, have for the quality of kindergartens, of sub-financing the reform in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11153	Thank you for the question. The funding of the staffing standard in kindergartens has followed exactly the same standards that we tend to follow when implementing these kinds of reforms. I would like to stress that although Stortinget has adopted a standard of personnel – which I am very pleased that Stortinget did – to ensure a minimum standard throughout the country, kindergartens are, after all, a responsibility for the municipalities. Manning standards are only a minimum standard, and it is fully possible for both municipalities and other kindergarten owners to take good care of the norm. Before we introduced the norm, there were a lot of municipalities and a lot of private kindergarten owners who had already met the norm, who had given priority to staffing. I believe that both with the state budget and with the budgetary agreement we got with the Christian People's Party, this arrangement is now well funded, and that means that very many places we will now have more employees in the kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11160	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the representative Melby and Left do not see this as a very big problem, but there are very many kindergarten owners who do it, among the public, in the municipalities, but also among the private kindergarten owners, who believe that this creates great financial uncertainty and is concerned about it. And it's a fact that there's a pretty big gap between the number they think is necessary to get the reform funded, and that government and government parties have put on the table. Is there therefore no concern whatsoever about the impact this can have on the quality of kindergartens and whether it can also help to reduce the quality of kindergartens when one does not have the opportunity to finance the reform in the way that the actors think is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11167	I share the concern of the representative Arnstad, perhaps primarily with regard to private kindergartens, because the challenges facing private kindergartens are that their funding is based on two-year-old figures. This means that if a municipality steps up its crew, it will take two years before the private kindergartens receive the same funding. I know that there are some municipalities that have made decisions to compensate for this. For example, the municipality of Drammen, on the initiative of the Left, has just done so in order to ensure a real level playing field between the private and municipal kindergartens. It is clear that implementing a reform like this is challenging for everyone who owns kindergartens. Of course, spending money on employing more people is the biggest cost everyone has, but there is a broad consensus that we need such a standard of manpower, and there is a broad consensus that the only measure that gives us the best quality is to bet on more employees. So I have full confidence that both municipalities and private authorities can do this, even if it becomes challenging.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11175	I have to follow up on what we've been talking about before, me and Melby, about student support. "If we are betting on student welfare and the full-time student, we will hopefully get fresher students," said Iselin Nybø to Stavanger Aftenblad last autumn. Nevertheless, the formerly so proud school party Left, both as a support party for the Right-Fremskritsparte-Government and now with the responsible State Council for Higher Education and Research, has cut close to 1 billion. kr in support of students, which far exceeds the cost of 11 months of study support. And so thousands of students gathered last Thursday and demonstrated against new cuts in student funding. This is being met rather arrogantly by the Council of State when she says that an extra NOK 17 000 in loans does not prevent students from changing their mind. Is this representative of the study policy of the Left, or is it just an example of a lack of effectiveness when negotiating with the Right and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11182	When I asked about education quality the last time, the representative answered Fagerås talking about student support, so I can talk about education quality, but I'm going to choose to answer the question instead. There is no doubt that betting on the student has been a major priority for the Left, and I am proud that we have actually managed to introduce 11 months of student support. In fact, I think it is quite strange that the representative from SV asked a question about this when they themselves put in government for eight years, a majority government in which all three parties – two consecutive elections – promised 11 months of study support, but failed to implement it. And so the Left – even before we go into the government – manages to get a majority of 11 months of student support, which means that every student has $8100 more to go with than they had in the fall of 2016. With regard to the billion that the representative of Fagerås says has been cut, she doesn't specify any more what it is, but there's no doubt that the Left in the Government is making sure that we have a big stake in student welfare, with increased student support, more student housing and higher student quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11191	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11196	The Christian People's Party wants the school to be based on the values of our Christian and humanist cultural heritage. This basis of values is based on the infinite value of each human being, our collective and personal responsibility for each other and the desire to take care of the environment and the basis of life for future generations. The kindergarten shall be a safe and good place for young children to be, a place where children can evolve through play, interaction and creative development. The most important thing for the quality of nursery services is that there are enough adults in kindergarten. Even though it will not only bring peace to the earth, the Christian People’s Party is pleased that we have reached a standard that ensures that there are a maximum of three young children under three years of age per adult and a maximum of six large children per adult in all kindergartens. New 160 million. kr in addition to the 100 million. kr that the government introduced as a result of the agreement with the Christian People's Party in connection with the revision in ours has been included in the budget to contribute to the establishment of the norm. These are means to ensure, in particular, that the smallest kindergartens are able to meet the norm and are guaranteed a wider life. We need a variety of nursery services. Then we also have to have space for the ideals and the small kindergartens. The school, together with the home, will form and educate the students and equip them for life, and a teacher must have time to see and support each student. Higher teacher density provides more time for each student and better opportunity to adapt training and provide all the assistance and follow-up they need. The decision on school-level teaching standards requires that from 1 August 2019 resources be allocated to each school on the basis of the key of 15 pupils per teacher of 1–4. steps and 20 from 5 to 10. steps. High teacher density must start from 1st class so that the necessary additional help can be inserted early. Today, we record that many people are getting help too late, and that is contrary to what we know about the importance of early efforts. A statutory minimum standard of teacher's density ensures that all students have equal access to what is the school's main resource, namely the teacher. The Christian People's Party wants children, no matter where they live, better and more like access to this resource. The introduction of a teacher’s norm at school level is a historic victory for Norwegian school. This is, in the view of the Christian People's Party, the largest school reform in many years and will ensure that our children are seen and cared for from the eager first-class and through too many demanding high schooling. More teachers will help us get a school that sees the whole human being, through more customized training. A teacher’s norm requires several qualified teachers. It is a challenge for graduates to end up in the teaching profession to a large extent. The Christian People's Party is therefore very pleased that one in the budgetary agreement with the government parties has put in place a state-funded guidance system for newly educated teachers in primary school. Practical learning and guidance from an experienced colleague during the first year after completion of education will ensure a better transition between education and work and help to keep more people in school. For the Christian People's Party, it's important to have a varied high school offer. We are pleased that, in addition to new national colleges at Svalbard and Evje, we have been given more money for further work on the design of two completely new high school projects. The Nordic shunk hat is a folk high school idea where it is planned to provide a specially organised offer for disabled people, an offer that can provide this group of young people with completely new opportunities to gain a good access to adult life. Also, a planned national college for sixteen-year-olds in Ørskog contributes to increased diversity in the sector. Many young people know of school fatigue and lack of motivation after completing primary school and need a different year. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that we have been corrected for the allocation to the higher education institutions because of increasing student numbers. A review of the short-term course activities of national higher education institutions has been announced. That review supports the Christian People's Party. While there is a need to clean up courses that may not necessarily fall within the scope of general education, some of the short-term courses activities of higher education institutions may still play an important role in preventing exclusion and promoting activity. The Christian People's Party is therefore concerned that the Ministry and the Swedish National College Council, through a regulatory review, can land a hopefully forward-looking model for financing short courses that can be of general interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11215	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11220	I want to start by giving tribute to the Christian People's Party, who through the negotiations got both the government and perhaps especially the Right to turn around in an hour's physical activity in school. It is clear, to me at least, that this was far inside the government, and that they were long opposed, but the comment that an overall committee was behind is a great victory, not least for schoolchildren, who can expect more play and learning and less sitting down. And I'm excited about the next step after this. If no one goes in the trap, but fits for it, the Christian People's Party will enter the government, and then there is a heavy responsibility on the Christian People's Party for the implementation of this proposal. And I noticed that the representative of Gruvan said at the NRK that schoolchildren will notice a difference after this decision. My question is whether this is a matter of fact, and how the Christian People's Party expects the government to follow up on the comment that an overall committee is now behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11227	The Christian People's Party is concerned that an hour of physical activity every day within today's frame metal is something to be carried out. At the same time, we have been concerned that a person needs to acquire the necessary knowledge and competence to ensure that this is done in a good way, and that this is not perceived by the individual teacher to be a method that is almost thrashed down over their heads. Pre-work needs to be done, and competence needs to be ensured in terms of how to do so. One thing is to do this as a voluntary arrangement, which we have many examples in some municipalities where this works very well. Another thing is when this is to be done across the country, in all municipalities and in all schools. That's why we need time, and we need to get the teachers with us. They've been opponents of this. We now need to use time to get this implemented in a good and wise way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11232	I'm happy with that answer and just hope that one doesn't give itself too much time. We're going to follow closely and be impatient on the side of Stortinget. I fully agree that it is obvious that there must be freedom of method for teachers in this area. I would also like to raise another matter, another battle that we have fought with the Christian People's Party about. This applies to the conditions of the ideal kindergartens. Today in our country, you can read that ideal community farms are bought up by commercial operators. It confirms the trend that the representative Gruvan has also been concerned about – that one has fewer ideal kindergartens and has more commercial kindergartens. This government has a policy that makes it more unacceptable profit. The learning workshop, which is the commercial kindergarten actor that is mentioned today in our country, has so far this year taken out a profit of over 100 million. kr. Does the representative of Gruvan agree that it is urgent to reverse this trend and take the best of grips to reverse the trend that we are now seeing?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11239	It is an important question raised by Mr Tvedt Solberg. We're going to be very busy looking at the cash flows and how public money is used – public kindergarten is an important purpose – and it's going to be a control of this, so we know that the money benefits the children. There shall be no place where one shall use public funds to build up large profits. So we look forward to a good review to know how these cash flows work, so we're sure that the money comes to the right place, and that they don't end up in the pockets of the owners. Whether they can collect profits in other ways through the sale of premises, etc., is something else, but the money to go to the kindergartens and to the children, we need to know and be sure of going for the right purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11244	The Christian People's Party and the Center Party are united in several important matters. One is the desire for the evaluation of the six-year reform. As the Center Party reads the proposition, we're a little bit uncertain about how it's being followed up by the government. In addition, we have been able to read in the daily newspaper that Right Tybring-Gjedde refers to the proposal with quotations as having ‘romantised reform L97’, that it is based on ‘anecdotes’ and that it is ‘drawn an artificial image’. This makes us worried about the will to look at what the youngest children have to contend with. With the announced government negotiations, it is clear that the Christian People's Party has a special responsibility to meet the needs of the youngest children. The goal is to make school better for them. It's almost as if we're standing in the starlight, hearing the bells chime and calling in the six-year-olds. Does the Christian People's Party agree with the reality as the Right presents it as, and do they see this as a constructive input into the work that the government is going to take on?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11253	We're definitely going to agree to call the six-year-olds into a school where they feel they're being seen and heard on their own premises. I am very pleased with the joint initiative taken by the Christian People's Party and the Center Party to evaluate the six-year-old reform, and there is no doubt that from our point of view the school does not work well enough for the very youngest age group. The six-year reform was intended in a completely different way. One should take the best from kindergarten into school, and that hasn't happened as far as we've registered. That's why we've been working on an experience acquisition in the first place, to find out how the six-year-olds experience school, to change the content of the school in order to be able to adapt it, so that play becomes a more natural learning method than the more sedentary method we experience today, which becomes a major challenge for the six-year-olds. So here we want a change, and we want to get to a school that meets six-year-olds in a completely different way from what it does today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11261	I would like to start by thanking the representative Gruvan personally for the job he has done for the Sjunkhatten public high school. It's important for many people with disabilities. There is great power in the folded hands of the day, but if all the educational students are to ‘go home for Christmas’ with a light heart and in secure assurance of a good future as educators, perhaps the representative of the Christian People's Party could say something about whether the Christian People's Party is willing to support our proposal to consolidate the guidance system for newly educated teachers. Like SV, the Christian People's Party has supported this earlier. At the same time, we have a challenge: if we are to get the municipalities to prioritize this work, I think we have to go along the path of a regulatory fixation. Does the Christian People's Party see that there may be a need to impose regulations in order for municipalities to commit themselves to spending money in line with what is meant?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11270	The Christian People's Party, like SV, sees the guidance of newly educated teachers as a very important and targeted action to provide help in a transition from education to practice. Although one has been out in practice through education, this practice often comes very surprising, with many forethoughts, which means that one needs to get a little special follow-up of experienced people, preferably with tutoring skills, in order to help them to take advantage of the experiences they make, in a good way and stay in school. We have, together with the government parties in the first place, invested money. We need some experience to see how this is used, how the municipalities follow this up, before we might consider the next step, which might be a regulatory change. Now we want to get this done as a good system, and we hope and believe that this can also give good results, which means that this can also be one of the important recruitment measures to keep qualified teachers in school in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11277	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11282	The government's goal is a knowledge school where all students get masters and learners, raise themselves and develop their skills – regardless of background and no matter where in the country they live. Of course, the role of the opposition is to bring forward what is not going so well, and what can be better. But I hope we can all rejoice that very much goes in the right direction. The students learn more and do better in both reading, science and mathematics. The students are more present at school. The absenteeism limit works, more students have received grades, and fewer quits. Several complete secondary education, and implementation is increasing most among pupils with a migrant background and among young people with low-educated parents. There have been more teachers in school, and more than 27 000 teachers have been offered further training. Yes, it's almost so you can agree "Definitely the sky is blue". At the same time, a lot is going well in school, and going in the right direction, there are still major and important tasks to be done. A good start lasts life out. The important basis for mastering and learning is laid in kindergarten. This is why the government continues to work to raise quality and secure enough adults in kindergartens. We work systematically to ensure the right skills, and with a record increase in teacher education in kindergarten, there is a lot to do. From 2019, we will extend free core time to two-year-olds – so that even more children can start in kindergarten: play, get friends and care and learn the language better. This is a targeted measure that also ensures that children in low-income families can enjoy and benefit from a childcare facility. At school, we continue to work on trade renewal and early work. Students will have more time to deepen and see contexts. Several students will meet teachers with professional depression, so we will continue to bet on further education and teacher specialists. And with the duty of intensive training, more people will break the reading code and get help in the past. With early effort, teachers can build inclusive communities in each classroom. Although 2018 has been the year of the professionals, the government continues to invest in the professional sector in 2019. We've been using over 0.5 billion since 2013. to raise the professional level. Now there are as many applicants for vocational training as they are for preparatory studies in the first year of higher education, and never before have so many received apprenticeship. Next year, we're proposing to give more teachers depression, and we're strengthening the subject of professional depression that provides more students with a place to study. But learning is not finished when the last exam is taken. In meeting a modern, competence-intensive working life, we must have the opportunity to learn all our lives and fill up with competence. That is why we create flexible modules so that those who are lacking in higher education can get a flexible race that is possible to complete, and more people can reach the dream of a letter and a job. The government has started working on a reform of competence – Learn all your life. The aim is that no one should go out on a date due to lack of competence but be able to continue training as the working life, tasks and requirements of competence change. Several measures are already in place: letter of formal qualifications at work, Competence plus, modular training and a high level of commitment in several sectors, both in education and in health and care. For 2019, we also receive industry programmes and flexible digital continuing training offers. This is a reform to be presented in a big message, but we are not waiting for this message to present new policies, and we are cooperating with the social partners and with the educational institutions. I hope for a good cooperation with the Stortinget also in the work on this important reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11315	First of all, I just want to give the Minister of Knowledge right in that 'Delight is the sky blue', but he who comes with mild gifts at Christmas is red. [[muttering in the hall]] Under this government, the nursery price has increased three times in addition to the price adjustment. It's given a lot of common children's families a much bigger pediatric bill. What you see from the numbers is that the government collects money from this. In addition to the moderation arrangements, the government collects 170 million. kr in 2019 – and go in plus 507 million. kr since 2013 – on these child care bills. I think it's important that you know about the consequences of your own policy. We have heard that in the past there were 29 000 families – now they are saying that it should be increased to 46 000 who receive moderation schemes. But does the Minister of Knowledge know how many families have received a higher pediatric bill with the Right in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11324	The representative Martin Henriksen is absolutely right that we give priority to those families that have low incomes. We lower the barrier so that their child can also go to kindergarten. It is the bourgeois government that, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, has introduced a moderation system for low-income families and is now introducing free core time for children from two years of age and up. So it's true that those who earn better have to pay something more. It's been a real change of 12 pst. since 2013. That's $314 a month. It is good and proper policy to help children in families with low incomes get the opportunity to go to kindergarten, while those who earn better pay more.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11331	Since 2013, a regular family with one child has received NOK 6000 more per year in the nursery bill. The answer to the question I asked, which I think the Minister of Knowledge should know, is that there are over 211 000 families with children who have increased the bill from the government. Not all of them have good advice. You bring in $170 million. kr on this in 2019. First of all, there is a lot more than the government would give to the standard of personnel, which was NOK 0, but there is also much more to it than the Christian People's Party has achieved in increasing the standard of living. In our country yesterday we read that several Christian kindergartens are sold to major commercial actors. As it stood in the intrusion of that matter: ‘Christian kindergartens were in danger of being laid down.’ So they choose to sell to larger groups instead of going down. The question is: what does the Minister of Knowledge think about reducing the diversity of the nursery sector and, among other things, reducing it? can be linked to the lack of funding for kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11341	It's pretty funny that that question comes from the Workers' Party, a party that has gone to fight against the private kindergartens, which represents a lot of the diversity of kindergartens in several municipalities, a party that cuts in support of the private kindergartens. It is the civil government that, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, implements the standard of manning, implements the standard of teaching, implements quality raising measures, ensures that families with low income get significantly cheaper kindergartens, and free core time for children from two years of age. It is true that the Christmas party is red, and that the Workers' Party often acts as a daemon in opposition, but in position it is a bourgeois government that ensures that there are more employees, more competence and cheaper kindergartens for the families who have the most misguided advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11348	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Knowledge for mentioning many measures that are unanimous in Stortinget, as a standard of manning and pedagogical – apart from the fact that we have spent a long time trying to implement them, and that we would have more ambitious pedagogical standards, for example. The Minister of Knowledge uses the expression that the Workers' Party is going to "fight against" private kindergartens. But looking at the practical policy, first of all, diversity is now being reduced, on the watch of the Minister of Knowledge. Secondly, if you compare the budgets, small and ideal kindergartens come out much better with the budgets of the Labour Party than with the government. Even if we have less than 1 pst. Cut out the subsidy to private kindergartens, the small ideals go into plus, because we among other things. full financing of the crew standard. We're going to spend 580 million. kr more in kindergarten than the government does. That's because we also have a different priority than the government does. I just want to ask him, what kind of feedback has the Minister of Knowledge got from the sector, from the small and ideal kindergartens, about the standard of manning? And why has he chosen not to listen to them? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11357	The President will only notice that when the red lamp lights, there is not one and only a sign that "it lights in quiet lanes". [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11363	We have discussed the standard of manning and the funding of it several times. Let me just repeat that the principles that we follow were in the kindergarten message in 2012. It was the principles of the Stoltenberg government that closed down in 2013. It is a civil government that, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, introduces the standard of manning, which introduces the standard of teaching, which strengthens it, which provides quality-raising measures, and also lowers the price of the families with the lowest income. So, of course, we're going to keep raising the quality of kindergartens. We're concerned that there'll be enough adults. Competence shall be appropriate. This is why we have ambitions to continue to increase the quality of kindergartens and ensure not least the diversity of kindergartens. That's why it's our government that has taken the initiative to review the economy in private kindergartens, precisely because we're going to ensure diversity in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11370	Yes, we can rejoice that Norway is the best country in the world to live in, but then we do when we want to bet in colleges late on a Wednesday night. Vocational education is required both in the industry and in the public sector. According to the 2018 NHO competence survey, 53 pst. by members' enterprises, their need for more university graduates. Nevertheless, the number of places of study in vocational schools has been much lower than the number of places of study in other higher education in recent years. For in practice, nearly 19 000 more students have been in universities and colleges since 2014, while in vocational schools there have been 423 new students. Then I simply wonder: will the Council of State meet the expectations that have been created? And can the government guarantee that this will be fulfilled in the future budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11379	I do not know what expectations the representative refers to, but I have had several meetings with the students as well as with the specialist schools this autumn, and the government is getting very good feedback on the great effort we have both in professional and higher vocational education. It has also been in good cooperation with Stortinget. There's a consensus that we're going to invest in higher vocational education, and we've got a lot in place. In 2018, the number of places of study is increasing by 638 new ones, but this increase will also have consequences in 2019 and 2020, because there are two-year-olds and also some three-year-olds. So we continue to bet on higher vocational education. There should be a separate route of education close to the workplace, and I look forward to many young people choosing that route later in life, and not least that we can cooperate with the vocational schools in the provision of continuing and continuing education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11388	I come from a place where the sky is very rarely delicious and blue, but one thing I'm sure of, and that's that the heart is on the left – always. In its Document 8, SV wants to recruit more teachers, to which the Stortinget will now deal in the new year, that the government actively implements the scope of action provided by the contract, to increase the level of pay paid by the teachers and, in cooperation with the parties, to draw up an obligatory action plan on what the State can contribute to. The Government, in its reply to the Committee, points out that this is a matter for the parties to design to ensure the necessary competence in the school system. So the government, with the government at the head, is concerned that the parties should design and use the contract work. But I'm recording that this is not the case with teacher specialists. Here, on the other hand, it is good to try out the parties and distribute pay supplements without having been negotiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11397	I don't know if it was a question, but I think the teacher-specialist system is very important. It is essential that we provide opportunities for good teachers in the future to continue to teach and not to opt out of the classroom if they want to pursue a career. The teacher-specialist scheme has been evaluated. There's good feedback from the principals. We know that it can be further developed, but we believe that this is an absolutely necessary effort also to ensure innovation and development in school. As far as guidance for teachers is concerned, we have concluded an agreement with the organisations that is just about recommending how to provide guidance to newly educated and newly enrolled people in school. We look forward to seeing how it works. It is necessary to ensure good guidance and the budgetary agreement also provides some resources to help lubricate the implementation of the good guidance to be provided in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11406	The size has decided to introduce independent supervision for kindergartens. We are constantly looking up where a person randomly detects fault payments of large amounts from the municipality to private kindergartens. Last night there was such a suggestion about a kindergarten in Steinkjer. This is also true in cases where private control is perceived to be exercised by the municipality, while no one controls the activities of municipal kindergartens in relation to law and regulations. How will the Council of State follow the decision of the Storting to set up an independent supervisory function?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11413	We are right now in those assessments to follow up both the decision of the Stortingen and the Jeleia declaration, which has highlighted the need to look at the oversight system. So it's true that there have been some predictions about mispayments. In the work we are doing now, we are concerned that good guidance should be given to municipalities. My impression is that there is good cooperation between municipalities and private kindergartens in most municipalities, but there is a need for better guidance. So it's that when it comes to financial supervision, I'm going to admit that there I'm worried. There we have now had an evaluation that shows that there has been financial supervision in only 1 pst. of private kindergartens over a few years. It shows that there is a need to look in particular at the financial supervision of kindergartens, both to ensure independence and to ensure that the money can be properly used. The private kindergartens receive 20 billion. So here it's important that we have good supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11422	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11427	The last skills reform we had in Norway was a big message in 1997. Then I started school. There have been some things that have happened since then. Knowledge, technology and working life are changing at an ever faster pace, and technological development is changing our tasks and means that many people will have to learn more than once in their lives. Competence policy has for many years been only a fine word you have used in dinner speeches, and until now in the debate I have hardly heard anyone in the opposition talk about it. But what I'm happy about is that over the last few years, the government has had budgets and measures that fill competence policy with content. Together with the social partners, the government has presented the first national strategy of competence policy, and we are now in the process of a major competence reform. Competence reform will be one of the most important welfare reforms in Norway over the next few years. It may be a bit surprising for the left to hear, because they often reduce welfare and welfare reforms only to a public benefit issue. But in the Right we do not believe that welfare is created and distributed only by a state budget. Welfare is created by people in small communities, communities and workplaces. A trust-based and sustainable welfare society is therefore dependent on people feeling that they can contribute, that they have skills that people need, and that others expect them to do so. It's an individual responsibility, but it's also a social responsibility to ensure that people don't go out on date. We need to ensure that there is a flexible and comprehensive system that allows you to quickly fill the skills gaps when – and preferably before – they occur. One size fits all does not work, either at school, in adult education, in the introduction programme or in the competence policy. We know that skills needs are very different for different people in different situations of life and in different industries. In this budget, therefore, we give priority to flexible provision of further training in the field of technology and digital solutions. We give priority to an industry programme in which particularly vulnerable sectors, such as the care sector and the industrial and construction industries, receive tailor-made skills. In some sectors, the need may be a letter No. 2nd@item: inlistbox In other industries, there may be a range of flexible and shorter modules, alongside full employment, housing loans, family and Volvo. This budget will also allow more people to complete higher education or receive a diploma while they are at work. The right will have adult training that adapts to the participants and their situation in life. There are many adults — young and older — who may have managed to get the first, famous, foot into the workplace, either as unskilled in industry or in the food industry or in the nursery sector. One foot is very important, but with more competence, you stand up more steadily over time. Enterprises report a high need for employees with vocational and vocational education and training. Those signals have been taken by the Right and the Government, and we have been very clear in our priorities. First of all, we have given priority to a professional lift to reduce non-response, enhance the skills of teachers and increase learning outcomes and motivation in education. Today, you do not have to cross the sea and land to find a specialised school that is developing new flexible study facilities. Professional schools work closely with businesses, close to business clusters, and they turn around quickly when new needs emerge. I am convinced that it is the quality of the offer that is the key to success in the future, and that is what we prioritise. It's easy for politicians to be so happy every budget harvest, because we have the pleasure of distributing billions of dollars to important actions. But we must not forget who creates what we distribute. We must not forget that lifelong learning depends on more jobs, Norwegian ownership, that companies have the opportunity to invest in the skills of their employees. Norwegian working life has a great advantage, and that is that it is an important learning arena. If we are to succeed in a reform of competence, it does not help to do as the Workers' Party does: give a little with one hand and then send a heavy extra tax bill to Norwegian jobs with the other. We have to play with the social partners, so that everyone is sure that they have a job to do over time. The right will never be a party that turns 180 degrees and changes meaning and bets in school and knowledge policy overnight. We leave that to the Workers' Party. The right is beginning to respond to the challenges and concerns that people feel when changes take place quickly. We want to ensure that Norway has the competence to succeed in green and technological change, and we give priority to the most important thing: what gives people the opportunity to take responsibility for themselves and their neighbors in good community. And that's quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11444	A good childcare and education sector is the cornerstone of the welfare society and a prerequisite for job security and value creation. Nothing is more important for the long-term transition of the Norwegian economy than a good education sector. For this reason, the Progress Party is pleased that it is investing in this sector in next year’s budget – not least the focus on vocational training is now important. Norway faces many challenges in the coming years. For the Progress Party, it is important that people are trained for work and not for unemployment. That is why we are working for more people to choose vocational education, where they, among other things, have to choose. can nail, saw, glue and knock. Professional letters are now more in demand in business than in the master’s degree, and both companies and the public sector will in the future have a major need for skilled professionals in vocational and vocational training. There is no doubt that it is important for value creation that even more students choose professional subjects. This is a priority area for the Progress Party, both on the Stortinget and in government. With the Progress Party in government, the number of applicants for vocational training has increased, and there are now as many students who choose the subject of vocational training as a student preparation in higher education. At the same time, the number of apprenticeships increases for the third consecutive year. These are some of the results that we can point to after the government, among other things. have strengthened vocational training by nearly 700 million. kr, and increased the apprenticeship allowance by a total of NOK 21 000 per apprentice since 2013. Norwegian skilled workers have been and are still among the best in the world. It should continue to be so, and therefore the strengthening of the professions must continue. The vocational schools also play an important role here. Vocational schools are important to increase the level of competence in industries with many unskilled and in transition industries. Education is also an important offer for skilled workers who wish to further specialise in continuing training. Several have to take vocational education, and the Progress Party will increase the number of post-secondary education places in the future. If we increase the capacity of colleges too quickly, it could be at the expense of quality. The allocation to the technical school sector will also increase in 2019 and 2020 due to the 2018 escalation, and therefore it is reasonable to give priority to quality development rather than further growth until further notice. The 2019 budget provides for the continued strengthening of vocational and vocational education and training, with professional higher education being promised in a number of areas. In order for the right to education to be effective, good funding for studies and a good welfare offer for students are important. All shall be able to take higher education independently of background, economy and place of residence. The government and the support parties started the escalation to 11 months of study support in 2017 with a week increase in the year. In the 2019 budget, the third week will be supported – and dear third study support week, we would like to welcome you all. In addition, under the Solberg Government, there has been a real growth in student support in the years before the extension of the support period. Students have a total of NOK 11 600 more to walk with in the 2018–2019 academic year than they would have had without the government's efforts on the study support. In order for everyone to really be able to take higher education in practice, we also need to make sure that students have a place to live when the networks become long and cold. Therefore, it is gratifying that the government and the bulk of the population open up for the construction of 1,200 additional student housing in 2019, as well as the 2,200 student housing inside the state budget. At the same time, the government has increased the grant rates and the cost framework, making it easier for student relations to get their construction projects started. On average, the government and the majority of the population have more than doubled the investment in student housing compared to the red-green government. There is a holistic thinking behind the knowledge effort in the budget. That effort should be made to remind us that Norway must have good education at all levels, from kindergarten and primary school to secondary, vocational, university and adult education. We have a responsibility to ensure that more people carry out both in higher education and higher education. We follow up on this responsibility, both through the allocation of competences and quality promotion measures and by making demands on individuals. We've seen that it works to make demands in high school. Now we do it in higher education too. In this way, we train people to work and not to unemployment, in that way we meet the challenges that work and society face in the years to come, and in that way we secure Norway as a knowledge society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11463	I'm going to use my post to continue talking about the new map of colleges and universities, many of the poor little colleges, which probably many people experience it as, around the country that is now in danger of being centralised. I have to do that, because the Center Party is deeply concerned about what is now happening at the new, merged colleges and universities. We know that there have been scenarios in several of the merged new universities that will lead to large sections of the study sites being closed down. For both the North University and the University of South East Norway, one has an internal process that goes a long way in saying that several of the places of study may be closed. No decisions have yet been taken, and the Storting must at least be a little concerned about the process that is taking place. If not, this will be a silent centralization as just outsources to the boards. The fact that the Storting should address this issue has nothing to do with autonomy, for this is essentially about the funding of those universities and colleges as well as the thinking of universities and colleges. If one looks at the North University, which today has study places in Mo in Rana, Bodø, Nesna, Sandnessjöen, Steinkjer, Namsos, Levanger and Stjørdal, and the University of South East Norway, which have study places in Bø, Drammen, Kongsberg, Notodden, Porsgrund, Rauland, Ringerijk and Vestfold, it may seem to some, on paper, that it is okay if a centralized part of these places. But it's about almost 30,000 students and thousands of employees, who are gradually starting to get a deep concern about what's going to happen to their place of work and their place of study. It's a big issue I think a political can't just pass in silence. One can't stick his head in the sand and just pretend this process isn't going on, one can't say that this is just up to the colleges and universities seagoing. This is a political issue, especially when the whole committee is so concerned that we need to maintain a wide range of study offerings across the country. I think they're going to be allowed to listen to a lot of university staff in the districts who, in time, towards heaven, bright luck and protest at what's going to happen around them in terms of closure and aggregation. This is about funding, as I tried to say, and it's about the willingness to take care of professional training and the cooperation between the place of study, work and business that takes place in many districts. There is little comfort in the fact that the representative Gudmundsen refers to the Church and Harstad. It is far from Kirkenes and Harstad and down to Trøndelag. This is about some of the new college mergers, and it's not least about what's happening in my region. I look very dark on it if it is such that – let's say – two or three of four study places in the Nord-Trøndelag were to be closed. I just have to say it this way: if you drop nurse training in Namsos, the hospital will go on the next round, you'll at least have to know how to sail before you take that kind of decision. This is about funding. The Central Party proposed 100 million. In order to restore some of the lopsided funding on basic funding for the new universities and higher education institutions, it also does not solve the fundamental problem and the fundamental debate: why do all universities and universities have to be pushed into the same narrow form? That's the basic question. Why can't we have any major universities in Norway that are allowed to be excellent nationally and internationally, that compete internationally and have a pointed environment? Why do the smaller universities and universities also have to be pushed into the same form? Why can they not be allowed to train good labour for regional business and employment beyond the districts? Why does everyone have to be pushed into the same form? I wish we had a more open thinking about it when we now see some of the experiences and some of the problems ahead of us in the higher education and university sector – that we had a little more open thinking about how to look at this sector in the years to come. I want those who are internationally excellent, but everyone can't be, not in a country with 5 million inhabitants. Some also need to produce the necessary regional workforce, whether it's a farm on the Namdal coast, where a breeder or nurse at Levanger, where he has a hospital. We're losing that perspective, and I'm deeply concerned about what's going on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11481	It is a special day today – not only because the Stortinget deals with the first education budget since the Left joined the government, but also because during the debate here in the Chamber, there is a bomb in Katowice in Poland. Now, from every hook in the world, climate negotiators are wandering to agree on a regulatory framework for the implementation of the Paris Agreement, on how to succeed in limiting the world's warming, so that we can still let it snow, let it snow, let it snow. Some time ago, the Climate Risk Committee presented its report here in Norway, which outlines what it can mean for us if we do not succeed. I think it's about to go up for most of us that it can be pretty dramatic. With this backstop, it is appropriate to discuss research and higher education. Because what happens at our universities, colleges, research institutions and companies that research is crucial to finding solutions that can help reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. It's essential to get through the transition we know we need to go through to get to the green shift. Conversion is one of the government's major projects. We have become one of the richest countries in the world by exploiting our fossil resources in a smart way, but now we have to think again. In the proposal for the 2019 government budget, several of the initiatives related to green, glittering three escalation plans are included in the revised long-term research and higher education plan, where migration is central. First of all, there's a technology pledge of 800 million. kr in the next four years. Technological changes result in the production of goods and services at home being able to compete with low-cost countries. Properly used, it can give us green business and more knowledge-based jobs across the country. In 2019 this is followed up by 255 million. kr over several departments. The Ministry of Knowledge budget reinforces the commitment to enabling and industrial technologies, basic ICT research and security. Secondly, the government is paying 450 million. SEK over four years in R & D for renewal and conversion in business. The total research and development effort in Norway is around 2 pst. GDP. It's going to be up to 3 pst. by 2030, and here, most of the growth has to be done by business. R & D in the State budget has increased from 0.86 pst. of GDP in 2013 to 1.02 pst. in the government's proposal for a 2019 budget. Although the numbers point in the right direction, companies need to do more research. In 2019, the escalation plan is followed up by a total of 136 million. kr – also in several departments. The third step-up plan shall enhance the quality of higher education by 250 million. kr over 4 years. Newly educated students take with them the research-based knowledge they have from universities and colleges, into business and working life. They contribute with new angles of incidence, and we need that. That's also good for the students. Eighty-five million. Step up to this objective in 2019. Upgrading of learning areas by the various institutions is required, for construction is also an input for quality. It will contribute to more and better practice in the municipalities of the health and social sciences, and new centres of excellence will be set up through the quality programmes of the Diku, the Directorate for Internationalisation and the quality development of higher education. I'm especially pleased that we're getting a bet in place to allow more teachers to take a doctorate. Several teachers with research skills who work at school will bring research and practice closer together. It will strengthen cooperation between the UH sector and schools and contribute to increased quality and better practical guidance for teacher students. This budget thus continues to focus on teachers and teacher training on which the majority of the parties have agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11500	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11505	The government has managed to get all the student organisations and large parts of the university and higher education sector against it by cutting the scholarship. The state councils don't like to see the thousands of student hands who, towards heaven, look lucky. Over the years, the government has used the students as a balancing post and saved a total of 256 million. kr a grip on which they justify externally that it will increase the degree of completion. Since there is no research-based basis to claim this, I would like to ask why the Council of State also does not focus more on documented effective instruments for higher implementation rates, such as: closer follow-up of students, better quality of education and, more importantly, mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11510	Let me first say that the government is putting in place different measures to improve implementation and to enhance the quality and the offer we give to the students. We have requested pedagogical meriting systems by 2019. We demand pedagogical competence for employment or attendance. We have started to give all students a mentor during the studies, and in addition, we have an escalation plan in the long-term research and higher education plan of 250 million. kr to be used for quality measures in higher education. But it's worrying when just a little over six out of ten completes the degree they've begun. We have free education in Norway, it's important and a good one, but we're dependent on getting more people to complete the education they're starting. It's good for the students, but it's also important for our business and our working life that we get educated students.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11515	It was basically an excellent introduction to my next question, because I was actually going to confront the Council of State that the government does not take responsibility for the emergency securing of the Viking ships on Bygdøy, nor the long-term care of them. But it gets to be taken somewhere else. I woke up to NRK's headline today about the critical situation of medical students in Eastern Europe, who are struggling mentally. We in the Workers' Party have in our budget a significant commitment to the mental health of students, a double in relation to the last, and of course we also want foreign students to be able to be helped. I mentioned the Viking ships, but also here the government is incomprehensiblely passive. How can the government live by rejecting all responsibility for Norwegian students who are encouraged to travel abroad in order to enter professions for which we have a major need in Norwegian healthcare? We know that we never have to forget them. Won't the Council of State do anything but worry?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11522	The representative starts with the Viking ships, and it might be appropriate to discuss somewhere else, when we have a little better occasion, because the Workers' Party talks a lot about it, but it's hard to see traces of the big bet on the Viking Ship Museum in the Workers' Party's alternative budget. But to what the representative decided to ask, namely foreign students, especially in countries like Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, where we know we have medical students and students studying for important welfare professions. When you choose to move to another country to study, the starting point is that you get the offer that students in the country you are studying get, just like foreign students get the offer from Norwegian students here. But we're lucky, we have ANSA, we're going to spend 9 million. kr on ANSA. They have first line contact with the students out there. I have therefore invited ANSA to a meeting in the new year just to discuss with them where the shoe is printing, and whether there are any measures we can put into action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11529	I thought I would hear from the State Council if she is familiar with the statements of the principal of the University of South East Norway that he must reduce the number of campers, among others. due to poor funding, and whether the Council of State is familiar with the project at Nord universitet, where they propose to go from eight campuses to maybe three or two. Is the Council of State aware of that, and what does she mean about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11534	I am not familiar with the specific statement from the headmaster of the University of South East Norway, but I am aware that there is a discussion about this with campuses, and that there is a discussion at several of our universities, including at North University, that the representative spoke about in his post. I'm concerned that our universities are going to deliver good research. They will provide students — and they will provide students with the skills needed by industry and the labour market, especially in the regions. I believe it should be up to the boards to assess the structure and grips that need to be taken in order for them to be able to offer good education and research. But I also believe that our universities and colleges must tolerate a public debate. They have to bear in mind that people, both employees and politicians, have opinions on this. Having a discussion, expressing concern and asking questions seems to me to be completely curative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11541	Obviously, the government wants this to be outsourced to the governments of universities and colleges, so that one avoids a political debate about it, because that can be unpleasant. With 30,000 students and many thousands of employees, there could be an unpleasant debate. When one now says that one will have the same requirements for all universities in terms of research and quality, does the Council of State believe that it is possible to implement it with the number of campers you currently have at the merged universities and universities, such as Nord universitet or University of South-East Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11548	The starting point is that all our universities and colleges have to deal with the same law. The size has created a law for universities and colleges, and then it's up to governments to consider how to organise themselves as best they can. But I think there's reason to be concerned about some of our universities, and if I'm going to draw out one of them, I'm going to bring forward North University, which the representative was also involved in – not only because of the structure and challenges they have with many campuses, but we know, for example. that NOKUT, which is a completely independent body, has now entered into an assessment of some of the programmes they have at Nord universitet. This isn't just about money. It's a debate that's about many more things than that, because North is, among other things, also a university that has money on book. This is a complex debate, but I'm worried about North University and I'm going to have a special look at it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11553	Yesterday’s Newspaper read that sign language skills in Norway are terribly poor. The two government councils of the Left have two of the departments responsible for implementing instruments to strengthen sign language, through training interpreters and sign language teachers, and for the management of Norwegian language policy. State councils Skei Grande and Nybø were concerned with the sign language when they were in opposition. That's why it's very disappointing that they're not using the ability they have to take a force for sign language when they're in position. The need for increased sign language competence is high, including: the lack of sign language teachers with the right of hearing-impaired children to training in and in sign language, in their own native language. Can the Council of State Nybø now guarantee that the government will come back to the Storting with measures that can solve these challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11559	Today we are dealing with next year's government budget, and that is what is happening now. Here, as the representative is aware, there are no special measures related to exactly character language training. It's one of the things that several people have criticized, as the representative also pointed out, last in the newspaper. Sign language and sign language training are important. It is important for the government, as the representative also says. The left has two of the state councils that this falls under, so this is absolutely something we're going to focus on in the future. It's going to be about several things. That's how we make sure we have teachers in school. Not least, it is an important task for me, which is responsible for primary school teacher training. So this is something we want to look at in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11566	The organisation of teacher training for two-course primary schools, 1–7 and 5–10, has worked for a few years, as far as I remember, since 2010. So far, we clearly see that the recruitment of 1 to 7 is the weakest, which in practice means that steps 1 to 4 in particular are losing in the fight for qualified teachers. In some schools we see that this leads to a lack of teachers with approved education in 5-10, which is located at the lowest level without being qualified formally. Sees the Council of State that there may be a need for an evaluation or a review of today’s structure in view of the breakdowns 1 to 7 and 5 to 10 in order to assess, if appropriate, other models, which can also contribute more to solving the problem of teacher recruitment as we look at 1 to 4. step?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11571	Firstly, I think it is too early to start an evaluation right now. The new elementary school teacher training is not fully implemented, so I think we need to wait a little longer before we take an evaluation. The representative is quite right that our challenge is linked to the lowest steps. When we evaluated general teacher training in 2006, the result of the evaluation was that general teacher training was too broad. Then you have tried to narrow it down a little, but we see that the challenges are especially related to elementary school teacher education 1–7. That's why we've given extra financial incentives to students who choose 1-7. We are also working on testing transitional arrangements to qualify teachers who are between 5 and 10 to also be able to work with between 1 and 7. Finally, I want to say that it's better for the school that we get teachers who are qualified for 5-to-10, to work in 1-7, than to get unqualified teachers to take care of the very early initial training.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11580	The cord shift is over. The President will take note of the fact that the speakers who are given the floor hereafter have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11587	I was Russian that year Bobbysock won the Melodi Grand Prix for Norway. Today's high school students probably don't know when it was, and who Bobbysocks were, or that the song they won with, called «Let it swing, let it rock and roll». I know otherwise it's not a Christmas song. I'm not going to say that there's been any more rock and roll in high school since I went there, but I'm very happy that it's become and become more swinging on the policy for high school in the future. The arrows also point in the right direction for high school. Students are more present at school, they get better results, fewer falls from, more are getting a place to learn, and more are completing. But anyway, too much is how it was when I went to college, and those who experienced Bobby Socks, know that it's starting to be a while ago. Some of the things that will help us achieve the goal of completing nine out of ten high school, and which will also help to improve the quality of education and ensure that it is better adapted to the needs of both students and industry, are the extensive structural change we are doing for the professional sector, and the Song Committee, which is in the process of reviewing everything relating to high school. The same is true of the efforts made in this State budget. I record that more batches are now noticeably more concerned with the professional subjects than before. Although some of them may have a tendency to fail a little of the progress we have made, I am pleased that we are many who want to speak and invest in the professions ahead. However, it is easy to promise a lot when you do not have to implement it. It's easy to promise a lot when you turn up taxes by billions. I am surprised that parties who say that they want to bet on more people becoming skilled workers in the future, at the same time want to implement a policy that will make it more difficult to create the jobs that our trade union workers are going to work on. It does not help to stand there with a letter in hand if you do not have a job to go to. Fortunately for today's students, our government rules, and we both act and make sure that we have a policy that both improves high school and creates more jobs. Whether the Council of State was inspired by Steffensen's posts or not, we would need a lot more people who would nail, saw, glue, knock, and who would say "yes, bake, it's really fun!" and that would say "thank you and yes, and stay with us and cut", because we need carpenters, bakers, hairdressers and many more skilled workers. So my appeal to all those who are going to apply in high school is: Search professional! There are all the possibilities open, you're almost guaranteed work when you're done, you're paid during education, you can easily start on your own, you can take higher vocational education at the colleges, and you can continue at a college or a university. 2018 has been the year of the professionals, but the good news is that we will continue to invest in the professional sector next year and in the years to come. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11602	The Workers' Party invests in everyone's skills and has a holistic and offensive commitment throughout the education cycle. «Thank you and say yes, and join us and package!» We have the student budget of the time and a targeted research budget that is significantly larger than that of the government. Record many will study, but many thousands of young people are out of education and work. We propose 3,000 new places of study, so that more people can acquire skills and get to work. With the study places, we invest in the industries of the future, technology development and the skills of the welfare state. These include: in the field of education, health and social sciences, ICT, technology and real life. We have 100 more recruitment positions and we see the importance of functional infrastructure and building mass. That's why we have 100 million. to new knowledge-building in a stepping-up plan and wonder why the government does not have a plan for the overall investment needs. Five years ago, we were the first party to party 3,000 student homes. We want to build 800 more than the government. Nearly one in four students have severe psychiatric symptoms. We double the support for mental health and have 30 million. kr in the budget. We prefer better study quality and closer follow-up than cut off in the scholarship to get students through faster. In our big investment in students and educational quality, we have a total of 25 million. kr more for the follow-up of students. We improve cooperation with the labour market and connect research and education more closely in a forceful fight against non-response and for learning outcomes. So ring now the clock! Norway is facing major changes, and we are surprised that the government is not putting more offensively on research. We are fundamentally critical of the ABE reform, and as the government plans, we see that there will probably be a flat cut of 1 billion. kr. We want the government to evaluate what this means for the quality of study and research. To strengthen research efforts and knowledge-based societal development, we propose three new research programmes on ICT and data security, social security and preparedness and the skills of the welfare state. We have more research for targeted industrial development. We have gone beyond sea and land, we have research to meet climate and energy challenges, and we are further developing traditional advantages and laying the foundation for completely new industries – to the benefit of future Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11619	Private owners and drivers enrich Norwegian education. Even I went to montessori school for seven years, without any serious damage to it. Both commercial actors without State aid and fresh schools are central to the right of pupils and parents to choose the school they want. Moreover, innovation and innovation from these outside the public framework can also strengthen public schools. I don't understand why someone is skeptical. In my home tracts in Agder, the other parties of these days try to prevent a private music school, KV Vennesla, from operating student furniture. I say like the Vice President of the Advance Party, who visited the school this week: it's incomprehensible. There are enough of them who will take every opportunity to prevent the creation of private schools. Freedom of choice and market forces may be scary for some. It is therefore important that the legislation clearly facilitates the start-up and development of private schools. There has been a long focus on fresh schools, but for the Progress Party it is very important to raise the pure private schools without government subsidies. In this context, the absence of bureaucracy, rules and regulations is defined. If we want innovation, creativity, freedom of choice and diversity in school as well, the public should put fewer obstacles in the way. The Norwegian primary school is based on an average student who does not exist. We're all different, and that's good. I want a school where these inequalities are recognised and respected. It's good that some people are good at math, that some people are good at social science, and that some people are good at professional science. That is why I am proud of the government's high ambitions – a new structure in the professional field, more and better teachers and the Right, the Progress Party and the Left's proposal in the vote of another 30 million. kr in 2019. This shows that we are betting on professional subjects. For the Progress Party, higher education is important. We show that through our priorities. We hope more will gradually see that recognising each other's strengths and weaknesses can mean better education for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11638	The sector has been satisfied with the long-term plan for research and higher education as an instrument of long-term priority and governance. But there was also a need for change. One of the criticisms of the long-term plan was that it was not as concrete in all thematic areas, nor binding enough across departments and sectors. It is therefore gratifying to see that in the 2019 budget, several departments have committed themselves to more research, and that the long-term plan is lifted in a multidisciplinary manner. In the revised long-term plan, three new escalation plans totaling 1.5 billion were launched. kr over 4 years. The three plans for stepping up are technology promises, R & D for renewal and conversion in business and quality in higher education. Long-term escalation plans are important to improve the long-term and predictability of research and education environments. A clear commitment to research for innovation and transformation in business is important, and efforts such as research training for business, measures for increased commercialisation, industrial research and research-based innovation are good measures in this way. A forward-looking business can be the drivers of change that help Norwegian research and innovation succeed even better. In particular, it is important for the renewal of the public sector. The institution sector is an important player in industrial research, but migration is limited by varying and weak basic funding compared to other European countries. If we want to maintain a viable institute sector that competes for research funds internationally, the framework conditions must be in line with similar institutions in Europe. Increased basic funding for the Technical-Industrial Research Institute is therefore a clear signal from the government that the Norwegian Institute sector continues to be an important research player. Predictability for the UH sector must also apply to investments, and visibility of the sector’s planned construction projects is good in this way. Even better predictability becomes when priority is given to the projects. The focus on education has been too weak in the previous long-term plan. Strengthening the national higher education quality arena of 25 million. kr in 2019 and therefore the programme of progress in quality in education is a step in the right direction. Strong research environments are important, but we do not exploit the full potential of the UH sector if the quality of education is not raised accordingly. SV obviously does not agree with this assessment as they in their alternative budget cut the whole increase to the national competitive area and all the enhancement of teachers’ competence, while at the same time legislating the right to continuing training for teachers. Now it's not likely that Christmas Eve will come tonight – with SV's alternative budget, but it's hard to understand the logic of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11653	I have to agree with those who have pointed out that the school is not a budget winner with this government. Right, the Progress Party and the Left are like the three wise men – the Rei-Gert in several thens and no one knew the road and it was ‘when it was carried. Right promised new ideas and better solutions, but the opposite has happened. It looks as if the Right has both dropped to wash the school floor, forgotten to carry in the wood and hang up the neck and sat down right to rest and breathe in a while. That moment has now remained for five years. But it's a star that's "blond on the sky vault blue" and ensures that school policy hasn't completely gone away, and that's the opposition. Before I go completely wild in Christmas songs, I believe that this description stands, because while the right-wing government has spent time snooping and fighting against, an offensive opposition has pressed on and got a pass in case after case. You can mention early efforts, the fight against bullying, professional bets and now the last hour of physical activity. I want to bring forward three issues where the government is still struggling, but where the opposition does not have time to wait. First, there are more than 50,000 students who say they've been bullied. Yes, the laws against bullying have changed, but the draft budget lacks resources for those who are going to fight bullying out in the classroom. When we are politically incapable of prioritizing, we cannot expect the results to improve. The working party believes we have to do more than point to the municipalities. We will employ 100 more environmental workers and deploy preparedness teams against bullying in all municipalities. Secondly, the growing digital class division. Being able to use ICT and digital services in a good way is becoming an increasingly important competence in the workplace and in society. For five years, the government has failed to take action. A recent Fafo report points to the fact that the digital class division is increasing both in the classroom and between classrooms in different municipalities. The Labour Party believes that it is a national responsibility to take action. The digital class division must be combated by targeted policies, for example through equipment lifting, purchasing arrangements and increased efforts in the field of continuing training in digital didactics, as the Workers' Party proposes. Thirdly, many children in school, especially boys, feel that school is too theoretical, monotonous and still. The working party will provide all students with more practical and varied learning, and early efforts must be more than a balancing item. How the Right Priorities are obvious. Everything that was about to be done early is now being used to finance the teacher's norm. We think we need to prioritize differently. The Master’s Code must be fully financed. We want to introduce a read, write and calculate guarantee with effort teams to build a stronger team around the students. We want to see the entire student and make sure that children can learn in different ways. It is a great saying that the Christian People's Party has now drawn the government in one hour of physical activity, and the Workers' Party will end up Norway is one of only three countries in Europe that don't give the children a healthy meal, because hungry children don't learn well. The working party in the opposition shall continue to press, so the government will only make friends to be led by a star.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11670	Competence is crucial for the future's working life. Some 400,000 Nordics lack basic skills in reading, even more in numerical understanding. A total of 800,000 lack basic ICT skills, and only two with primary education are currently in work, compared to nine out of ten with higher education. At the same time, SSB tracks that one in three jobs will be digitised away. It's an exaggeration to say that competence is the key to succeeding in including more people in the world of work. Thus, one of the government’s most important projects is to ensure that no one goes out to date in working life. With the government's competence reform, learning all our lives, we make sure that more people can work longer. That's why it's so good that the government delivers fresh money in this year's budget, just to a lifelong lifting of competences. Money has been allocated to the development of more flexible continuing training provision in digital competences, sectoral programmes for vulnerable industries and multiple attempts at modular learning at primary and vocational level. Simultaneously, it shall be easier to combine training and work. It's totally positive. We're so happy, we're so happy. One of the measures I am particularly pleased with is the strengthening of Competence plus. It provides opportunities for those who are already in the labour market but who need professional replenishment. Competence plus is a symbol of how the lifting of competences takes place in practice. On the west side of Storsenter in Bergen, they went together with the Folkeuniversitet to offer empowerment to employees and managers in their shops. The shoe store Mani had three employees, who, together with the store manager, went through a lifting of their skills. The store manager said Competence pluss had helped adults to keep up with the time and feel safer. She had been in charge for 17 years, but needed further training in management. She also saw the value of sending employees on course, although this meant that she had to deal with fewer employees during periods. Investing in employees is investing in the future, and enthusiasm and learning have infected the others in the shoe shop. Another example is from Bakehuset Martens, where twelve employees took a letter in industrial food production. Through a burning commitment, the trustee was able to get twelve employees through training every Saturday for 10 months, before 10 out of 12 were in the hands of a tradesman. It's impressive. The company got motivated employees with important basic knowledge. It started with Competence plus. It's this thing that's learning all your life. Right-hand jobs to find the right solutions, so that more people can work throughout their working lives. The future work life needs us to build competence in the company. That's how we prevent someone from going out on date.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11690	Automation and digitisation fundamentally change working life. This is good news for Norway’s competitiveness. We have a competent workforce, but the digital revolution requires more masters of new technology, skills become more fresher, and more people want to change jobs more often. The biggest challenge to ensure a competitive business and work for all is that we have the right skills. It reinforces the political responsibility for giving everyone the opportunity to update. The ability and competence of individuals are Norway’s most valuable resource. This is why the Workers' Party will implement a major reform of labour skills, which will provide more people in work, more who remain in work, and better results in the labour market. We make sure that people learn at work and learn on their way to work. This is one of our real big bets, and we have over 1 billion. kr to it in the budget – with one it sucks in all quiet rooms. Unlike the government, we deliver a real reform, with the right and with funding. It is not only the individual employee who has to take responsibility, but also the employers and the state. Here we are in a row and in a row – and we will do this together, together with the social partners. Together, we will draw up the labour market competence agreement to ensure that employees earn the right to continuing education and training, and that long-term work is done to meet the skills needs of the labour market. There will be less clear distinctions between learning by educational institutions and learning in the workplace, between initial and continuing education. People delight you – our reform provides ordinary workers with appropriate skills in meeting new needs in the workplace and business. We're setting up a competence fund where the state invests 100 million. Dr in the knowledge and competence of the population, and we stimulate the knowledge institutions to contribute more. We believe that our good professional environments will set up business and work-related learning programmes adapted to more enterprises and industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11701	Nearly 50,000 students had individual decisions on special education in the 2017/2018 school year, which amounted to 7.9 pst. by the students. The share of special education increases beyond primary school. There are far more boys than girls who get special education. On the 10th step you get 13.6 pst. by the boys special education. At the same time, the number of people diagnosed with ADHD in Norway has increased from 11 000 to over 42 000 in the last 10 years, and boys are overrepresented. A new study by the Institute for Public Health shows major weaknesses in how ADHD diagnostics are put in place. Scientists ask themselves how many children have the diagnosis, who shouldn't have had it. They have read the records of 549 children under the age of 12 who have been diagnosed with ADHD. In four out of ten journals, there was a lack of consistency between the diagnosis that was made and what was written about the child in the journal. We have to be careful to morbidize children who, for various reasons, fall outside the normality definition. Recent Danish research shows that more children are diagnosed when the number of adults per child is reduced. The number of Danish children diagnosed has increased by 43 pst. in the last six years. Researchers at Aarhus University say that whether a child with disruptive behavior is viewed as a diagnostic child or one depends on the number of adults in the institution and their qualifications. Has our normality definition become so sloppy that a child gets a diagnosis as soon as it twists on the chair in the classroom? That boys are overrepresented among those who are diagnosed may not be surprising either. The Danish researchers indicate that the chances of getting extra resources increase significantly if the child is diagnosed. They believe that instead of meeting the child’s behavior and helping it to adapt, a pressured group of staff in Denmark will send the child to investigate in hopes of a diagnosis and thus support hours. It seems that it was high time to introduce the pedagogical norm and the standard for staffing here at home. Schools and kindergartens must have the resources to meet children with different positions and challenges, and I am pleased that the budget for 2019 has allocated 285 million. kr in earmarked funds for increasing teacher's density through the budgetary conciliation. At the same time, it's important to realize that boys' biological assumptions are different than girls, so forcing boys into learning forms that are adapted to quiet girls is asking for trouble. A single school to push all children into the same form will create school losers. Diagnosing more children after a narrow definition of normality will not help the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11714	Now that we're going into Christmas and a new year, the Workers' Party had a hope for a better future with new and better opportunities for all children and young people. The Labour Party therefore has a much more offensive investment in kindergarten and school, education and research in the 2019 budget – to give our children and society the knowledge we need in the future. We want everyone to learn more and thrive better. Safe children learn better. In the position are the representatives and nods and are so happy, but to put money on the table, none of the government parties will have anything of it. We have left behind the years of the professional professions, and the Workers' Party wants to continue its efforts. We have an overall commitment to motivate children and young people to choose a profession, the Workers' Party will use a professional billion during this major period. We're starting at 250 million. DKK for 2019, which will provide 100 million for up-to-date and modern equipment in training, 20 million for grants to enterprises that take students into practice, 20 million for continuing vocational training and 110 million for apprenticeship grants. Now these days Andersen is sitting in his small workshop and nails, saws and pillows on all the gifts that the children have wanted for Christmas. He has a very busy everyday life that will reach all this all by himself. He probably wants more assistants with a professional background and apprentices who can continue the company for new generations. The working party wants everyone to join and everyone to have one of their wishes fulfilled, regardless of their place of residence, social background and economy. Then we need several proud trade unionists who join Andersen. In next year's budget, the government doesn't have a single penny for several college places, so there are many who will be disappointed and bored when they don't find a single package of more money for new modern equipment or new college places during Christmas, but only a Christmas card with a wish for everything good for Christmas and the new year. We're all excited about the Christmas press. Wesle Kentemann strives long; he snows at now exciting that will soon become a presang. Now it's just a box table, but guess what it's going to be? Along the way, both the Right Party and the Advance Party and the Left Party have planed, sawn and plastered on each side, and finally the Christian People's Party has put its last hand in the work. Then the gift is finished, even though the long man is blue and the thumb pocket has a patch patch, they're happy now. Because here is the gift ready wrapped in, and guess what the kids are going to get? A bacon that they can lubricate the school food seams on. [[Laughter]] Right and government are sitting quietly with their hands trapped – times to come, times to roll off. And there's always a new investigation or report to wait for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11731	It's not that easy to come after such a poet. Lowthreshold services are very important to capture children and young people with mental disorders, to detect bullying and violence and abuse in the way school health services and health stations in municipalities do. Too many children and young people meet a closed door by not getting help. Therefore, there is a need for a strengthening of school health services and health centres. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that, according to the budgetary union with the government parties, 100 million are granted. in addition to the Government's proposal for this very important service. Too many children are horrified at the next school day of fear of being bullied. We therefore need to focus on measures that can escalate this work for a kindergarten and a school that is free of all kinds of bullying. We live in a society with increasing antisemitism, not only beyond the borders of the country, but also within. The Christian People's Party was therefore pleased with the adoption in spring 2015 of an action plan against anti-Semitism and will give tribute to the government and not least to the Council of State Sanner for its follow-up. The funds of the Christian People's Party agreed with the government parties for next year's government budget, 15 million. kr, as a subsidy to secondary school trips to visit concentration camps in Poland, is an important contribution to the provision of knowledge that can create good attitudes among young people. It's not just once that I've heard tenth graders say what kind of strong impression such a visit has made on them – in the form of new knowledge and also changed attitudes to antisemitism. The Christian People's Party is pleased that this time we also found space for the launch of the landline for seafood in Vardø. This is undoubtedly an important offer for increased recruitment to the maritime food industry, not least in this part of the country. There is every reason to believe that such a long-term offer will mean increased competence and better securing the basis for the industry in the future. Through increased funding for new higher education places, the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) and the government parties also prioritised a new commitment to nursing at the Sami university in cooperation with the University of Tromsø. Nursing training provided over four years provides an expanded recruitment basis because of the possibility of combining jobs with education. We believe this will be an important and good offer to the Sami-speaking population, and an offer that will contribute to the new workforce remaining in the region. The Christian People's Party is also pleased with 100 new places of study at several of the newly merged private colleges as well as scholarship positions that contribute to building skills. It is positive that the University of Dance Art has now entered the state budget, and that a new master's offer in the field of child protection at the University of Agder – the first in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11746	A good childhood lasts a lifetime. SV will give priority to activities that enhance the quality of kindergarten and give all children the opportunity to go to kindergarten. Kindergarten shall be a universal education and welfare offer which benefits all children, irrespective of their parent’s economy or place of residence. So kindergarten is very important for equalizing social inequality. In the SV's alternative state budget, we propose to allocate 130 million. kr to lower parental payment. Our goal in the long term is to make kindergarten free, as school is. Under the red-green, glittering government the parental payment was reduced by 35 p.m., before the unfortunately has begun to rise again during this government. Some adults with pediatric competence are key to good kindergartens. A good nursery is a nursery where all children are seen through everyday life and receive care and encouragement. Therefore, in 2013, the Red-Green Glittering Government proposed to introduce a minimum requirement for ground crew, in line with the recommendations of the Barnehage Law Committee. Figures from the Education Directorate show that nearly half of the kindergartens have lower staff than the new minimum requirement adopted by the Storting. It is the big cities and the biggest kindergarten chains that are the worst way to meet the requirement. This is not in line with the government's repeated claim that the standard of maintenance for kindergartens has been met and can therefore be implemented without further funding. There has been a long-standing cross-political consensus on the introduction of a national recruitment standard, and parents and employees have been waiting for it for several years. But what was supposed to be a happy day in the spring when we introduced it has led to concerns and concerns in the sector, and we met them the last time we got to work yesterday. Parents protest against what the government has done, and believe that the norm has to be financed. For those who are concerned with the quality of kindergarten, we have put forward a proposal here today, where the Stortinget asks the government to submit a plan to strengthen kindergarten prophecy and that 50 pst. pediatric teachers shall be trained by the nursery staff. So I hope that those who are concerned with quality also support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11761	I sat in the office and listened to this debate, and then I went «the crack away the glass» and sat down and reflected a little. One of the things I came up with was that, despite years of change and policy change, many of the debates are the same. Special debates related to higher education and student welfare have an impact on it. When I was on the Education Committee a few years ago, we also discussed student welfare. The difference between 2013 and today is that there has been so much crazy happening. The student requirement prior to the 2013 elections was 2000 student housing and 11 months study funding. Under our government, more than 2,000 student homes have been built this year, towards about a little under 1,000 when the red-green ones crashed. There was something higher in the election year, before you went a little lower in the middle pick. In the case of study funding, there has been a revolution. I remember how damned the students were in the 2013 election campaign. Then all three red-green parties had for eight full years, under a majority rule, the students promised eleven months of study funding. So you would have to increase from 10 to 11 months, an increase of 10 pst. The fasitivity was a real increase of 0.2 pst, i.e. 0.025 pst. This year. So the red-greens had to sit for 392 more years to fulfill their own promise – and the students' wishes. Now we're going to do it in a few years. Then I record that there's a spin in this room now -- and in the media and outwards -- started by the opposition, that we've cut hundreds of millions of dollars, some say even a billion, to the students. That's not right. What we've done is we've redeployed something, for which the socialists are usually, from us who's finished studying, to those who are students today. With regard to the proposal for next year, it's about the same thing, that you should reward those who study and get finished, more than those who don't finish. In fact, I do not think it is very controversial, and I fully agree with the chairman of the committee in his excellent and simple response to the representative Henriksen. In fact, there seems to be a bit of sutring on the part of the students when you know that the back carpet is that the students today have NOK 11 000 more than they had in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11772	I chose to take the word again to point out that I find it a little unfair to debate when you criticize cut and appear to be not a part of them, such as. The representative of Fagerås, who is talking about the 650 million. kr allegedly cut for the students, in the case of the interest rate premium, phasing out of the quota scheme and reducing the deductions from the student loan scheme. I have not registered that any of this is within SV's alternative budget, ergo is wrong to criticise us for it when they do exactly the same. The same applies to the maximum price in kindergartens. Both the representative Henriksen and the representative Fagerås talk about how much more expensive it has been for the families, but they themselves have not reduced it back to the 2013 level, as it was. That means that when they think we've added NOK 6 000 to NOK 7 000 for families with children, they do the same thing themselves, and then it's unfair to criticise us for it. Several, both the representative Asphjell and the representative Knutsdatter Strand, have been lacking in professional training. I would like to remind you once again that we have increased the apprenticeship grant seven times, with NOK 21 000 per contract. We have asked for apprentices in public and public tenders, and we have spent 600 million since 2013. kr on our professional qualification. This all agrees, said the representative Knutsdatter Strand, but then it is very strange that it was not implemented while the red-greens crashed for eight years. So it took a new government to get it done. The result is that we now get more apprenticeships, record searches for professional subjects and 15 pst. more apprentices since 2013. Now it's approaching the end. Now thousands of Christmas lights light up, or at least almost, out in the hiking hall. The green glittering tree is set up while we've been sitting here. In the course of the day, we will adopt a budget for education and research that will ensure the continuation of the policy we have been pursuing for five years, which has produced results by students learning more and being more present, that fewer falls from the fact that more people get learning contracts, that there are cheaper kindergartens for those who need it the most, that there will be increased student support and more student homes. I think there's a reason to say the truth of the lift and the truth of the jump and fall for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11783	All children and young people have the right to a safe and good school environment without bullying. Unfortunately, many children and young people are bullied, both in kindergarten and in school. Combating bullying has been an important issue for the Progress Party for several years. That's why we nod and smile and are so happy that from 2017 we have legalized zero tolerance against bullying. From the autumn of 2018, a system of bullying agents has also been established in all counties to strengthen local work against bullying in kindergartens and schools and to provide more rapid assistance to children and students exposed to bullying. The enforcement mechanism will be reinforced by 17 million. kr in the revised national budget for 2018, and we propose to continue this commitment in 2019. In order to ensure the rapid and good management of bullying, the counties were allocated 17 million. SEK in 2017 and another 17 million. kr in revised national budget for 2018. The sum of 34 million. kr to be continued in 2019. This year, it's going to be spent, I guess, 50 million. kr for competence work related to bullying. More than 800 schools and kindergartens all over the country learn how to prevent, detect and manage bullying with their municipalities. This will continue in 2019. To stop bullying, it does not threaten our big spoons and ask the bullies just to get away. It requires action. An NTNU evaluation shows that national efforts to reduce bullying in schools that have had a lot of bullying over time have produced good results. The proportion of students experiencing bullying has fallen sharply in all of these schools. Schools have become better at detecting and solving bullying. Municipalities and school owners feel that they have become better at following up the school’s work against bullying, and parents and students have become more aware of the importance of the learning environment. This is happy news. That means it's useful to make changes. It is useful to focus an extra effort on bullying and to make demands on adults in school. When fewer children experience having life ruined by bullying, and in the worst case, taking a choice that leads to parents losing the girlfriend they have, it's worth it. But let one thing be clear: the goal is zero. No children should experience bullying at school. No children shall be destroyed in this way for the rest of their lives. No parent shall lose his child because of bullying. Therefore, the prevention and management of bullying is a high priority area for the Progress Party and the Government. It shall be safe to go to kindergarten and school. It should be fun and not something to worry about. That is why I am proud of the efforts made to combat bullying by the government and I am very pleased that this effort will continue and strengthen in 2019. We clapp our hands so that more children may join us in singing and laughing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11798	Knowledge and competence are fundamental to all people throughout Norway. The centre party wants less target management and more trust. Experience shows that, although the Storting never agrees on the objectives, the government's actions come with a backside. The standard of living in kindergartens is such an example, a strengthening of teaching profession is another, quality measures and structural reform in the university and higher education sectors is a third, and, not least, increased support for studies is a fourth. There is little help with noble intentions when the price of bet has to be taken in the sector itself. For example, small private kindergartens are now either laid down or purchased. Retrospective requirements for teachers mean that teachers themselves must now be taught. The small campuses have to give up for the big ones to have enough money. The students, as it was carved off from this pulpit, have to pay for the increased student support themselves. Good Minister of Knowledge, competence reform, I have to add that the whole of Stortinget has great expectations, and we hopefully don't get a breakdown of study associations and adult education on the way. Good higher education and research ministers, we are very pleased with the long-term plan and for what is said about research from this pulpit, but don't forget regional research funds, and don't forget agricultural research. Here, the Center Party will reverse the cuts that the government is presenting. In addition, I would like to point out that mental health is something we work to raise, far from cross-political, but the Central Party is also adding funds to this in its alternative state budget. We want there to be actions that follow up students more actively around the whole of Norway. Now that we're going to the end, there's no doubt that we can all light a light, share hope, and let Christmas peace sink.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11811	The representative of Marianne Synnes has spoken twice before and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11816	I am pleased that an overall committee promotes the importance of science centres. It is important to inspire children and young people to learn more about technology and science. Knowledge centres represent a valuable contribution to knowledge and interest in real science, which could contribute to increased recruitment to these disciplines. We need to ensure a geographical distribution of science centres, so that science centres are available for kindergartens and schools in the regions. The establishment of science centres in close cooperation with business and academia gives a positive and potent effect, as we see among other things. at the Atlantic Park in Ålesund, which is now applying to become a witness centre in our region. Only in this way can kindergartens and schools avoid having to cross the sea and land to find the nearest science centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11824	With the risk of being accomplices – there are some things in this debate I want to comment on. Because there's something that hits me. One is that the Workers' Party and the left side are smoothly ignoring developments in Norwegian school. That is not mentioned in one word. It is later considered that there has not been a professional lift that has resulted in a record number of apprentices, or that the vocational schools are in the process of achieving a high-quality level of education. It is ignored that record students will become teachers, that record teachers will have continued training, and that the growth in the proportion of unskilled people has slowed down. You ignore the fact that students read better and calculate better, that more people complete, and that we have a new bullying law and extra appropriations to prevent bullying. That's to the extent that it's okay, that's the way it's going to be in opposition, maybe. But it's also fascinating to see how, among other things. The representative Henriksen and the Labour Party are trying to pretend that everything is happening now, we have agreed. All the steps for which the Right Party and the Government have taken, for which the Right Party and the Government have carried out, shall be honoured by the Workers' Party. I can't. Eleven months of study support was carried out by us after countless promises from the red-green ones. The teacher vow was introduced by us, with a Workers' Party that really changed its mind in all the questions about what to bet on, every two years. Early efforts, more teachers, more early specialists, and not least an obligation for schools to prioritize reading, writing and billing and the youngest years, were carried out by this government. Also here it is worth noting that it was difficult to know what the Workers' Party meant when they suddenly wanted to prioritize all the subjects and all the years, and not the younger ones, who need it the most. That the opposition is trying to take ownership of a development that's going well, I'm really taking it as an honorary title, but what surprises me sometimes is that when the opposition first points to the challenges we have in Norwegian school, when you first criticise the government, you choose absolutely everything else than what is important for students' learning and for students' opportunities. There is no one who talks about learning pressure being too weak, that too many go out of primary school without mastering the basics, that there are quality differences between A and B classes, that the municipality is not good enough to follow up those schools that have extra challenges, and not least that the school has low ambitions for the children, such as: receive special education. These are the real challenges in schools. I'm not against having more bread slices in Norwegian school – it's probably great, there's a lot of municipalities that have good arrangements for it – but it's not the most important thing to balance social differences. It is good that SV wants some 7th graders in some municipalities to have one extra hour at the school, where they will do their homework. But when you cut 500 million. in the competence of teachers, in continuing training, it is not the most important priority for students to learn and to lift all. It'll be almost a parody of being a knowledge party when it cuts out on students and teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11841	To the representative Tybring-Gjedde: it seems that she wants this debate to be just a history lesson where there is a common cheer over everything that goes well and that one agrees on. But I have listened to the debate that has been, and what we are criticising, is a surprising passive government in view of the great challenges ahead of us – not the things that are good behind us. Few answers have been received, and I will take two important examples, which are also important for the students. Take the digital class distinction that increases in classrooms: it's important for students' learning. The recent Fafo report is alarming, as it shows that the differences in equipment and the lack of digital learning tools now give children a completely different starting point for what they can and what grades they get. For the Workers' Party, it is clear that this is a national responsibility. We need a complete grip to seal the digital class division. The government doesn't want to be in on that. It even goes so far that government parties reduce ambitions from last year. A year ago, in this room, a joint committee fully agreed that one had to do more with the digital class division. Government parties have declined in their comments without being able to present their alternative. There are a few small million amounts of a digital school bag that won't help us with the enormous challenges ahead of us. With regard to the increasing teaching shortage, it is important for students to have professionals — skilled teachers — in the classroom. That was 40 pst. increase in unskilled teachers under this government only last year, and I notice that the government parties do not want to respond to whether parents, children and teachers can expect this proportion to fall next year. No, the answer we got in the line change was that this is probably just going to keep going, and it's going to continue for years to come. So one is satisfied with the negative development of this government's policy. Another important thing we have raised is how we can facilitate a more practical school, with more games. I have noticed that the Council of State has gone high in the media and said that a person wants to facilitate it. The kids want spikes, saws, glues and packages, but the government says we have no time, because we've put down samples. I will challenge the Council of State, now at the end of the debate, to answer just this: how will the Council of State and the Government facilitate more play in school? One option could have been to stand behind the Workers' Party's proposals in the case. I also wonder whether the Council of State could elaborate on how he will follow up the comment of an overall committee, which says that a wish for one hour's physical activity within today's hours. The expectations are great, and it would be interesting to hear the thoughts of the Council of State about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11852	When I hear the debate and hear the government parties, it reminds me a little about bell sounds. Some bells are ringing bright, and some bells are ringing dark – but bells are it anyway. It's a little bit about both excellence and how to describe the opposition. There is no doubt that we need more skilled and proud professionals in the years to come. The knowledge and competence of skilled workers today are important in maintaining proud craft traditions. Even I'm a graphic artist, a book writer, but it's a subject that's gone out of date, to say it like that. I can't go back to my old profession. So the organization of new and modern equipment in vocational school is absolutely necessary. A few weeks ago, the Workers’ Party’s educational fraction visited Meldal secondary school — a school with an implementation rate of 97, which is very good. It is far above what other schools have — not because of the government, but despite the government. The school has implemented actions with the municipality, together with the county council and not least with local business to ensure that students receive good and appropriate training in the equipment needed. The lathes standing there were the same lathes that stood there when I went to Meldal school. It was in 1977 – 40 years ago. 40 years is a long time. If we are to get tomorrow's trade union workers to be up-to-date and trained in a good way, we have to provide a professional career that allows us to buy more and more modern equipment. We see that the school today is becoming more and more academic and less and less practical. When I went to school myself, we had a veil, and we learned to work with craftsmanship. If today students are to choose a professional education and do not have experience of craftsmanship, either from home or from school, nor do they know the possibilities of professional qualifications, how can they choose a subject that they do not know about? We have a great responsibility for how to provide good training. Like NHO and LO, the Labour Party is very surprised that the government has not found a single penny for new places of study in the vocational schools for 2019. The working party has set aside 15.5 million. kr extra next year, over cap. 240 item 60, which will provide 300 new places for higher vocational education in the vocational schools. That's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11865	The representative Nina Sandberg had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11870	Even before 2017, Jonas Gahr Støre said: Competence reform is one of our important reforms. It is fine that the Right comes after, but they probably want the wall to be easy to walk. We could be your brother in fifth grade, because it's a very narrow competence reform they're putting on the table. It is without action and without enough money. The working party bets $12 billion. kr. We have a real reform, with funds and with the right to continuing education. Thank you – and Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11879	It is quite a pleasure to sit here and hear that one representative after another from the Workers' Party must have closed both eyes and ears emphatically in the last five years. They can't have followed school policy at all. To hear claims that nothing has happened, and that today's government is dragging its legs and just dilting after the Workers' Party, is little incredible. I'm not saying everything is perfect. There has been a lot to deal with since SV spent eight years in the Ministry of Knowledge, we still have challenges to solve, and we're working hard on that. But being able not to record both the results that have been achieved, the bets that have been made, and the ones that are now being implemented, is actually very well done. One must have reasonable confidence in one's own position and not least be rather conceited if one is to represent the Workers' Party and imagine that the government – and not least the Right – has the slightest desire to replicate the Labour Party's school policy. There's a school policy where it's winged in one case after another, where the party can't stand for a long-term bet in some cases, and which depends on who you talked to last time. I can mention Absent limit admission requirements for teacher training; Competence requirements for teachers whether there should be an additional early effort for them of 1 to 4. step or, as a rule, whether to lubricate thinly and not prioritize at all; the fact that no further training has now been given to more than 7 000 teachers during the year — more than a fourfold increase from the day the Workers' Party ran the fact that the students are soon up to more than 11 months of study support and have increased it in addition to the increase in prices and wages, which the Labour Party itself failed in its eight years of government that there are now 3 000 new student homes in the next year – a sharp increase from when the Workers' Party crashed – it is quite incredible that you have not been brought with it. My colleague Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde gave a number of other examples here recently, so I won't bring more, but I could have stood here for a while. To the representative Jorodd Asphjell: The department of secondary schools is responsible for the county municipalities. In Akershus, there has been a strong commitment to upgrading equipment parks in recent years. I don't know what it's like in Asphjell's own municipality of residence – it's probably the Workers' Party that rules, but it sounds like it hasn't been that much to brag about in recent years. It is also strange that the Labour Party representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has several times today claimed that the government is opposed to physical activity in the school. We're not, but we're opposed to a detailed management of the teachers. There have been repeated countless times here today, but an untruth is no longer true if it is repeated. I can assure the Labour Party that I see no reason whatsoever to copy their school policy. The best child care policy and school policy for the country's children, students and students we get with the government of the country. We don't disagree on everything, the Labour Party has some good action in its policy, but we don't have to copy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11916	What made me take the floor was the story and the description from the Workers' Party. Although I can understand that you are not willing to look back – it was eight rather thin red-green educational policy years – I think that short-term memory is a little weakened when you can't see what has been done and what has been the results in recent years in the education sector. Last night, we received data from the school contribution indicator on the 2012 coal and what kind of contributions schools have made for their implementation and results. There were numbers that for some states not exactly were o Christmas with your joy, but there is no doubt that such surveys provide us with a good starting point for debating instruments and measures in higher education. When you look at the debate and change of words that have been between the right and the left in this room, it's a little lenient that a lot of the fighting goes on physical activity and school food, while what the debate really should be about is what good tools we can have to help our children get the knowledge they need through their education. Then I would like to stress that it is under today's political majority and in the last few years we have gone from late efforts, as we had under the red-green, with New GIV and teachers in high school and homework to unskilled, that we now have a massive commitment to early efforts, quality measures in kindergarten and empowerment of teachers, and help to make a proper raise for primary school. Not least what we do with the higher education professions, by making them more relevant and practical, and not least by delivering on what business needs, I must also mention. We also see good results there, by the fact that more people complete, exist and are more present, and more people are given a place to learn. More people have been about it today, but when you look at the big bet that we have had, for example. on study support, that students get a cheaper place to live through the housing effort, and not least when they remember the rest cut and think about what this government has done through a massive investment in research and development, which has helped to restore the record of R & D and EU reimbursement through their research funds, to which we contribute, there is no doubt that the arrows point in the right direction from kindergarten and all the way up to higher education and research. We have provided a policy that has been a good medicine for this sector. It has happened on our guard, and then the Workers' Party will continue to paint black, as they do, but more correctly it will not be for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11929	To be so annoyed that they believe the opposition parties have the wrong history, I must say the government parties themselves were very happy to talk about history during the last posts. I understand that some right-wing politicians get a little lost by reading the Labour Party budget. You're not used to reading such large numbers in an educational budget as what we've presented. If they had listened, they would have heard that we've talked about the students having to learn more, and that we want more competent employees, do something about the teaching shortage and get more quality in kindergarten, school and education. It is not surprising that the Workers' Party wants to bet more strongly, among other things. in vocational, kindergarten and students, but we also want new initiatives that meet challenges we believe the government is not addressing – as more play for the youngest students, more practical primary school learning, doing something about the school leisure system, and having school food for all students. We want to do that in addition to being concerned with increasing learning pressures and more qualified teachers. The government's school policy lacks something. It's about seeing the whole student. The students must thrive, move and eat properly in order to thrive and learn. I hear Right saying that physical activity, or at least fruit and green, goes at the expense of students' learning. That's wrong. Sunny students learn more, not less. To be honest, I didn't understand the Right Fear of fruit in school. It seems as if the Minister of Knowledge and the Prime Minister have had some kind of near-banan experience in growing up, but I can assure Right that the fruit does not creep in and steal the school books for the students. It's just healthy. We didn't use the expression "copy the Workers' Party," but when we say this, it's not an insult, it's a compliment. The right answer with its usual charges that others turn around, and the representative Tybring-Gjedde said that the right is not a party that turns 180 degrees in school policy overnight. Then they forget to mention that the Right Party itself has turned most of the school policy in the last five years. Right has had its own little spin festival since the 2013 elections. In the 2013 election, the Right went to the elections, and had in their program, that you should have grades from the fifth class – they had to put them in the box, and that you had to divide the students according to the professional level – they had to put that in the box. The right went to the elections in 2013 to double the number of curriculum goals. Now they're doing the opposite. They opted for all teachers to write reports on all students in Norwegian, math, English and natural sciences, and on their own principal contracts. They had to put all that together. Later they have also taken up suggestions they had to put in the drawer again. Introducing the exam for all students in Norwegian, math and English at the tenth stage had to be ironed out, as well as the language standard in kindergarten. They've turned in terms of student representatives, lucky faces, the winding-up of the goal character, teacher standard, performance-based teacher's salary, like in Oslo, and RLE, which became KRLE. I might also have mentioned it by evaluating the exam after the renewal or the quality assessment system, but it is mainly unclear what the government parties think.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11942	The representative Mona Fagerås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11947	SV reverses the cut of 254 million. kr in scholarship. So when the representative Steffensen has calculated that SV cuts more than the government, I think we might have to consider introducing a four-dimensional requirement in order to get into the Stortinget. In any case, I don't want to take part in the premise that re-election is negative. On the other hand, I would argue that it may be very good to have a broad competence, and that it will stand for quality. A police officer who first studied child protection – wouldn't it be a fantastic combo? I also want to take a strong distance from the representative Steffensen, who claims that students are suing for NOK 17 000. In fact, NOK 17 000 is a lot of money for a poor student who lives at NOK 8 000 a month.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11954	The representative Jorod Asphjell has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute. I would also like to say that after this debate I look forward to the whole committee coming and singing all the Christmas seasons during the Christmas break of the next week. [[Muntering in the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11964	To the representative Kristensen, who said that my municipality was run by the Workers' Party: I should have liked to see it. Then maybe both kindergarten, school, care for the elderly and so on. Look even better than they do today. But we have great ambitions that the new Orkland municipality will be run by an Workers' Party rapporteur and a majority from the Workers' Party. It is not the municipality that is the school owner of secondary schools. It is the county council that is, and there we run with the county rapporteur, Tore O. Sandvik. I don't think there are any states that have invested as much in new high school as South Trundelag – and now Trundelag. We've invested in new school buildings and new equipment, which makes students feel better, and which makes school life completely different. It's important for everyone to have a good future with a good education, which they can take with them further into life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11971	The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11976	I want to finish by thanking you for the debate, and then I want to say that healthy students learn more. No one disagrees. A student who has the right to special education learns more from having a teacher with special pedagogical competence. A boy who starts school and struggles with the language, learns more from having teachers who can follow him, who are experts in how to learn to develop concepts and language further, and who prioritizes reading, writing and billing in a motivating and engaging way. I mean, there's a lot that makes the kids learn. But today, when we have a school that doesn't have the ability to equalize social differences, it's our job to give priority to the most important thing. The most important thing is to help the students who are following, who experience the school as a defeat, and then for example. Special education is a place to start, not with bread slices for those who already have it in the school bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11989	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e11994	I agree with the efforts made by Tybring-Gjedde in terms of both special education and the need to have qualified teachers. But it's possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time and prioritize what gives well-being, health and health, and what gives learning. Often the two things are related. I just have to say, it's an honest thing of the Right when they turn around, but it's no more honest when the Right does it than when others do it, and the Right has, after all, done it very much since they took over the government offices in 2013. I wanted to take an immortal Christmas song from Prøysen to illustrate it, but now, since it's my last post and I see another one on the list of speakers, we can at least say Happy Xmas in two minutes. [[Where is Over]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e12001	The representative Turid Kristensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e12006	I have to admit that I doubted a little when I was told that it was a Christmas theme for today's debate, and naive as I was, I had to make sure that this was not just something I was going to say, but that it was actually something that everyone was going to do. But it kind of eased the mood. So it's fucked up a little bit here at the end, and it's also quite okay. The reason I asked for the word again is that I want to thank the representative Henriksen for demonstrating in such an incredibly elegant way my whole point with the post I had in place. We are not against physical activity in school, even though the representative tried to produce it that way once again and also demonstrated that he does not follow the school policy of the government. We have announced our own message of early efforts and inclusive communities, which will address many of the issues he is now claiming that the Workers' Party needs to promote policies for, in order to get us along. It's not like that. I apologise to the representative of Asphjell if I said municipality and not county, but the facts remain: the Labour Party has not prioritised the profession in his home country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e12015	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4, and now the committee has soon been through the entire Christmas issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e12027	The size now goes to voting in case No. 3 and 4. Case No. 1 and 2 are wetter than before today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e12036	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-12, from Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 13, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 14 and 15, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, on the basis of the evaluations carried out, to return to the Stortinget with a plan for a new and improved quota programme for students from the global south. The government is also asking for an assessment of whether the Panorama Strategy should be adjusted.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e12067	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-12, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a stepping-up plan for the construction and rehabilitation of swimming facilities, including proposals for financing, inter alia, through the interest-rate compensation scheme for school buildings and swimming facilities, and to return to the Stortinge in the context of the revised national budget, so that all pupils achieve the skill objectives set for swimming and life-saving training in primary schools.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to identify the real equipment needs at schools in order to meet all the curriculum objectives and the relevance of vocational training, with a view to introducing a top-level funding for specific resource-intensive training programmes.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a funding model for upper secondary education approved by the Olympic Summit, which has an integrated school and training model, in order to ensure an equivalent level of education for the pupils.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with an assessment of how support and funding schemes can contribute to making public schools a real offer for all.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive assessment of the need for new public higher education schools in the years to come, including a stepping-up plan for new public higher education places.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government asks the government to evaluate the impact of an accumulated efficiency cut of 1 billion. crowns in the higher education sector, with particular reference to the quality of studies and research.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case on national needs for sign language interpreters in kindergartens and initial training.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back with a new building case for the health and social sciences of NTNU and to propose a start-up grant in the revised National Budget 2019.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan for securing and preserving the entire Viking ship’s ship, including objects for the future.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure the future development of the project Campus Kristiansund and to return to Stortinget with a case where possible compensation for rental costs.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to return to the Storting in the context of the revised national budget with a possible proposal to convert the rules for the conversion from loans to scholarships. A prior investigation must highlight the impact on individual groups of students and pursue educational policy objectives, including the reform of competences, as well as the involvement of relevant stakeholder organisations.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government of the revised national budget is asked to return to the Grand Duchy with a review of the impact of the changes in the grant and loan schemes for secondary school students from 2014 onwards and an assessment of whether the overall grant and loan schemes comply with the free principle and equal rights of education for all pupils.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e12143	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to legislate on the right and the obligation to continue training of teachers, and at the latest by the State budget for 2020, to present a plan for the enforcement of such a right.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e12162	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to strengthen pediatric teaching, including a proposal for that 50 pst. by day-care centre staff shall have kindergarten teacher training, as well as measures to ensure better financing of kindergarten teacher training, and return to the Stortingen with a case by the State budget for 2020 at the latest.’;» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e12181	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e15424	The position of the Committee shall be replaced by A, all Roman numerals. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e15438	President! I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e15443	Then there are 52 votes in favour and 49 votes against. - Are there any others who voted wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e15448	I also voted incorrectly!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e15453	Then the president thinks we have to take the vote again. The position of the Committee shall be replaced by A, all Roman numerals. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e15490	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the Committee's position on B II. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e15504	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on B I and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e16858	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the position of the Committee on III. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e16870	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-12.ana.ud45e16880	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what it looks like. The meeting has been cancelled.
