ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e32	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e37	On behalf of Per Olaf Lundteigen, Siv Mossleth and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to explore the socio-economic benefits and costs of refurbishment of the world heritage object Tinnosbanen either to a clean museum railway or to a railway section that can also transport goods and timber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e42	The representative, Kristoffer Robin Haug, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e47	I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on a less harmful community environment in urban areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e52	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e70	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e79	Fish have always been important to the coastal nation of Norway, which dates back to the time when Norway was populated as the edge of the ice drew away from the coast. Then we got access to one of the world's most resource-rich waters. The management of these resources is important for Norway, both in a historical and a future perspective. Fish are currently the second largest export product from Norway for oil and gas. The National Audit Office’s inspection of the North Sea Fisheries Management and Skagerrak, Document 3:9 for 2016-2017, is an important contribution in this way. The North Sea and Skagerrak are surrounded by densely populated areas, and therefore fishing has been higher than the sustainable levels for several species of fish. The Committee has noted that the management of coastal fisheries in the south has historically not had the same priority as the larger stocks in the north and that this can be explained to a large extent by the difference in the economic importance of these fisheries. The Committee has also noted that areas in the south have become more important as a result of ecosystem-based management, where a greater emphasis has been placed on the transparency and implementation of coastal fisheries as well. Strict regulation and control have contributed to the reconstruction of many populations, but some populations are still threatened or vulnerable. The situation is worse for cod and sea. Cooperation with the EU is essential to ensure the sustainable management of fishing resources in the North Sea and Skagerrak. The Committee points out in its recommendation that three fisheries agreements have been concluded which are of particular relevance to this field. The agreements confer on the parties the mutual right to fish in each other's fishing zones, based on annually negotiated quotas. The National Audit Office’s study shows that despite agreements and negotiations on quotas, there is a large overfishing and draft juvenile. Quota regulation and prohibition under-reporting by fishermen of catches or reporting fish species. In the Norwegian zone, there is a requirement that all by-catches should be landed, but fishermen may have economic motives for circumventing this ban. Good control of resource extraction and enforcement is therefore an important prerequisite for sustainable fisheries management. The main findings of the Riksrevision study can be summarised as follows: Norway and the EU cooperate in the management of fish stocks, but many questions remain. Fisheries authorities have paid too little attention to the management of coastal populations. The overall control resources, including cooperation on control with the EU, are not being used well enough. The work on simplifying the fisheries legislation has produced few results. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, it is critical that the fisheries authorities have not followed up well enough on the large increase in lip fish and that the decline in stocks of coastal cod and coastal sprat has not been adequately followed up by measures. The Committee points out that the control of fisheries is not good enough. According to the Riksrevision, the Ministry has a critically weak follow-up to the control work of the fishing sales teams. The sales teams have a demanding dual role both as fishermen's representatives and as authorities in fisheries control. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, the expectations of the Ministry should be clarified and cooperation on local controls should be improved. The Committee welcomes the fact that, in its reply to the Riksrevision, the Minister for Fisheries states that he is committed to following the recommendations of the Riksrevision. I expect the Council of State to follow up on its posts and say something more about what measures have been taken, and what is on the stairs. The Committee shares the views of the Minister for Fisheries regarding the United Kingdom’s announcement of the EU. Most of the waters of the North Sea are under either Norwegian or British jurisdiction. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom is likely to open up new discussions on the allocation of fishing resources in the area. The Committee has noted that the EU already has the largest quotas on all fish stocks, with the exception of seas and shrimps. With this, I recommend the Committee's position, which is otherwise unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e115	I would like to begin by giving my full support to Keshvar's presentation of the unanimous vote by the Committee and saying that I am very pleased that the Riksrevision has gone into this matter so thoroughly. When it says that you've taken the management of coastal populations too little seriously, it's completely in line with the experience we're really having out there. With us in Westfold – and, I think, in other states along Skagerrak – it has long been a feeling that those we see as very important populations have been subject to a vote by the fisheries management. Therefore, I am pleased with the advice given by the Riksrevision, and expect the Council of State to follow up the clear advice. There are – as Keshvari was in it – a number of references to things that don't work well enough. Therefore, the most important thing for me is that this work is being followed up. We see, we who live down there, that a physical person sees changes in the possibility of getting a cod if you go to the sea and try it. There is a marked lack of access to several marine resources — especially cod. It seems to us that there is an imbalance in the form of sales and other predators in a way involving and harvesting the same resource. All of these animals we're going to have, but there's got to be a balance of management. I just want to say briefly that I challenge the Council of State to make a difference. Here the Council of State can really make a difference, and I hope that we will notice that now the management of our populations will be taken seriously in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e124	A resilient management of our fishing resources is particularly important for all of us. To put it in a funny way: by managing and doing the right thing, we're all going to be saturated. Like our farmers, fishermen are also people who see what they're doing, from a generation perspective. In this sense, developments with power, money and quotas on fewer hands have been an unfortunate side of politics. Fishing industry is so crucial to Norway as a source of food, as a source of work and as a source of a wide range of local value creation. We need a varied fishing fleet. After assessing the management of the fisheries in the North Sea and Skagerrak, the Riks Auditor states that it is essentially doing well. In some areas, however, the management of certain species of fish is uncertain. There is a cause for concern that one cannot be managed in the same way. We can do a lot on our own keel too. We need, as the Riksrevision points out, to follow better on lip fishing and on the decline in coastal cod and coastal sprat. We expect that measures will be taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. On the part of the Central Party, we have been concerned that Norway should have been in dialogue with the United Kingdom to a far greater extent and at an earlier date than the Government would have done, now that they are leaving the European Union. It also applies in the fisheries sector. What we see, is that there will be new discussions between us when it concerns the fishing resources in the northern part of the North Sea. We should be better able to drive the local development of fish opportunities. It is in this context that the Committee has found reason to point out that the follow-up to the work of the fish stocks should be closely coordinated and monitored. In many ways, the government has told us that they are busy simplifying the legislation. The Committee is in agreement that the results of this work are rather small after five years. Therefore, there is an agreement that progress in this simplification process needs to be improved. It's e.g. there are several requirements for the same ratio and different rules for the same species, in the North Sea and Skagerrak. It should be a simple matter to allow the Directorate of Fisheries to destroy unmarked cabins that are being hired, without the individual case having to be reported first. The aim of simplification must be to give each fish more time to actually fish, and to provide a regulatory framework to facilitate more efficient control of fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e139	I also agree with the setting in my health. The installation for Keshvari is very much appreciated, and it also looks at this in a larger perspective. The first constructions in Norway came the sea road. One did not arrive on the inland road, one came from the sea and settled in Norway when the ice retreated. Throughout the history of Norway, with the world's second longest coastline, the sea has been the basis for the whole construction of our nation. Skagerrak and the North Sea have our whole center in this. If you look at historical depictions from the early 1800s, you'd draw a 30-kilogram cod there. It was not unusual. There are rich fishing seas we talk about here, Skagerrak and the North Sea – just as rich as the Lofothavet is today, my historians. That's the biological potential right there. But everyone who lives along the coast of these two oceans knows that we're not in the vicinity of having the rich sea, one sees that we're not near the potential that they have. This is a difficult common area. There are a lot of nations that have the right to stay. It has been our different challenges with the administration up through history, and it is still today. The National Audit Office's review is gloomy reading. We have heard history that the control of the fisheries management has become poorer and poorer with the years, but what the Riksrevision points to here, with the management of these oceans, is very alarming. Especially white fish are being pulled up as very problematic. But here's the problem with the fish salads' handling, measuring and weighing, we don't know whether or not extensive jux goes wrong, the Director of Fisheries's use of data is not effective to find out if anything goes wrong here, whether or not the administration is in line with the agreed stock targets, the quotas set, and not least the role of Coast Guard, which we know has a very big challenge with, among other things. helicopter and capacity, etc. So at almost all levels of the administration of these oceans is the significant error and lack. Another very interesting point is that where there is actually a strong control, it applies to fish stocks that are of great economic benefit today. The Riksrevision then points out that one must have a greater and broader ecosystem understanding here, because it is not that the cod only lives its own life, completely independent of the rest of the sea. These things are closely linked – for example, if you want to manage them. the cod. They point out the lack of a holistic access to its management. The question is whether we have lost control of the most important value of our nation, the simple sea. For according to the report to the Riksrevision, there's nothing to suggest that we actually have control here. What the control committee is asking for is a full review of the management of the control system, and it is a broad task that we have to assess whether the Minister for Fisheries, but also other ministers, should be able to do so. During the process here we also send in questions – this is Skagerrak and the North Sea, but we have other seas, the Norwegian Sea, the Barents Sea, etc., what's the point there? The insight we got was that it might be a little bit better, but there were disturbing descriptions from the department itself. Not even where a data is received, effectively used to ensure control. So here we have just a problem, to put it straight out, and I expect the Minister of Fisheries to press some kind of alarm button he has somewhere on his dashboard in the government, and say that this we just have to clean up, this can't just scour and go, put and go. So I hope the National Auditor keeps on his good work and looks at the sea, for one needs to investigate this. It's a complex system, and it's good that we have a national audit that has the capacity to do a thorough job on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e156	I'd like to start with two reservations. First, it's sometimes a challenge to get to everything you want, especially when managing different areas with multiple partners. Secondly, it will always be that the economic priorities will be a key and decisive factor in the priority of tasks. But there is no doubt that this government, with good support from the Stortinget, has given high priority to both research efforts and administrative resources according to the challenges we face. There is no disagreement that Norway and the EU should have come much further, and that there should be much better common administration, as both the Riksrevision and the Committee state. I have therefore taken more initiatives towards the EU, and we are now going to set up a working group to propose an even better management of shrimp fisheries in Skagerrak. Norway and the EU also agree to establish a working group on the control of fisheries in the North Sea common stocks. This has not been easy in the past, but I think there are several who see the challenges we are facing. I also have plans to set up a public sample within a short time to look at the overall overall future resource control. For, as the representative of Knag Fylkesnes points out: although it is better in other areas, it is not good enough. As regards the management plans for different fish stocks, a meeting with the EU was agreed in the first half of 2018 to discuss this. I hope that we will now get speed on this work, which I pointed out has been a bit difficult to get the EU involved and give sufficient attention. I would add here that although we do not have common plans, we base quota fixing on advice from the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, so that sustainability considerations are respected. In the future, the United Kingdom, after leaving the EU and completing the transitional period, will also become a new and very important partner for us in the management of the North Sea. This means that the dynamics of administrative cooperation will change. This, I believe, provides opportunities for significantly better management, a more developed and better harmonised regulatory framework and, hopefully, even larger and stronger fish stocks, to the benefit of all three parties to this cooperation. The Committee points out that the EU is now introducing legislation to ensure that fish are landed. The draft ban is one of the most important issues we have been working with towards the EU for several years. And it's a big step in the right direction that this is introduced. It shall be fully implemented in 2019. I also record that the Committee is involved in the management of coastal populations. So am I, I can promise. Here, however, it is also necessary to take into account that we need to make some priorities between different populations and different areas in order to prioritise research resources and administrative resources. However, I have asked the Marine Research Institute and the Fisheries Directorate to step up efforts related to coastal local fish stocks in 2018. In particular, there is work to find a good regulation, such as: ensuring a more sustainable lip fishing. Then the Committee, like the National Audit Office, is subject to as good a national control of fisheries as possible. Here, the work of the National Audit Office has been very useful to all of us. The Ministry has, among other things: underlined the expectations that the sales laws would follow up their statutory control responsibilities. The Directorate of Fisheries also follows the control work of the sales teams through supervision and has enhanced cooperation with Adjustervesen on the control of weights and weighing, etc. Finally, the National Audit Office has provided a very good and useful review of the administration in the North Sea and Skagerrak. This gives us all a responsibility to strengthen and strengthen the work of following up their recommendations, and it becomes one of my priority tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e177	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e182	It is good to hear that the Council of State will follow up and believe that the Riksrevision and the Committee have done a thorough job. I would like to stress the importance of the international agreements – which the Council of State had in mind – and mention that former fisheries minister Helga Pedersen will remain in Norwegian history as one of those who really made great progress in international registration of so-called u-fishing. She worked hard internationally with that. I'm glad the council says he'll follow it up. Then I'll ask you a little bit more specifically about Skagerrak and the North Sea. A part of what the Council of State said, was in a way a general strengthening of national supervision, but it is evident from this report that there is a special failure in the areas in which the representative of the Knag County mentioned the historical importance and potential of. I would ask the Council of State to say a little more specifically what measures he sees in the specific area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e189	I share what is said about the fact that former fisheries ministers and former governments have argued that Norway is now in fact the leader in the fight against illegal fishing. We're not going to go into that trap and be a little naive and think that somehow we've eliminated something, but we've done a considerable job, and internationally we've taken a leading role in this. As I pointed out in my article, we are a little dependent on bringing the EU. Otherwise, it is largely bilateral agreements that we deal with in the case of Skagerrak – among others. United Kingdom and Denmark. But now we've got the EU with us, and the EU is also more focused on this. There has been a challenge in the past, but now we have agreements with both Denmark and the United Kingdom to focus more on this. We also have areas that we have actually closed. At these times, there is a debate in Tvedestrand — on areas that are protected — about whether we can manage to raise the population of, among others. coastal cod in these areas. This has been going on for five to six years, the result is not yet available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e196	That's good, but what we don't depend on in international cooperation – and as I stressed is so important, and as the Council of State says – is in a way that we ourselves are left with control regimes, research and monitoring of population development. It is particularly in the areas we live in – with concern for those who are going to live on the fishing resources as a profession, but also generally as part of the natural cycle and for the many recreational fishermen in the area – that there has been too poor monitoring of the stock, poor monitoring of fishing practices and poor control of the regulations we have in these fisheries. That's what I'm asking the Council of State to comment a little bit more specifically.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e202	As I said a little bit about in my main post, this is about having to have a lot more resources for both research and control in the areas we are talking about. But as I also say, with regard to this working group we have now been set up, we are totally dependent on having the EU and others with us in common to establish a common regulatory framework. Over the two years I have been a fisheries minister, I have participated in many debates where Norwegian interests, fishermen and industries are somewhat in doubt as to whether the others who also harvest the stocks in this area are following the legislation. The most important thing now is that we put in place a common regulatory framework, a common understanding of the state of the different species in these areas. A trap code is the goal. That's why we should be a little satisfied that we have at least got a working group in place – so that we look towards it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e207	That's good. I only have one last question. I expect this Council of State, like all the other Councils of State, to ask the Ministry of Finance to get as much money as possible for their important work – in the case of this Council of State, largely investments for the acquisition of income later. What we're really asking about here, and what I think is left in the National Audit Office's report, is: will one increase the relative proportion of attention in terms of control and research to the area that you've now pointed to has too little of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e212	I feel that we have already done so, also through the leadership of Stortinget. There, I think both big business and government agree that we need more resources. I also pointed out that the Directorate actually focuses a lot on this in some areas in the case of Skagerrak: putting in place conservation areas and prohibition areas to see whether it is possible to develop and increase populations, especially with a focus on spawning areas, etc. There is no doubt that the government has increased access to resources through research, control and studies — and the Storting has also raised it further. The use of resources in both research and control has been increasing in recent years — and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e217	I think it's good that a set down a public selection to review all of this, I think it's really high time. In any case, the case of the Riksrevision shows that there are so many problems here in so many different areas that here one might simply need to sew this together in a new and better way. But that is in the long term. In the short term, there are a number of measures, and I also believe that for this area there is a whole determination with the EU, etc. But what's happened on the coast is just something that we in Norway have control of; there's nothing we can blame on others because we haven't managed in a good enough way. It's our own fault that we can't get better management of coastal populations. And we have a fjord line in this country that's adopted, but that's not being held, where the dispensation possibilities of the Fisheries Directorate are too extensive. Is there anything the Minister has thought about tightening up?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e224	I remember the debate in 2017 when the department shut down two fjords in North Norway – in terms of not granting this kind of derogation. There were many different relationships that led to it. I remember that Knag Fylkesnes also pointed this out in his post with digitisation and collection of great data. There'll be a priority from my side now, because there's a lot of data, but it needs to be coordinated. So it's also like we get two more research vessels. In the action reform that took place in 2015, 2016 and 2017, 75 million were signed. kr to build a coastal research vessel. So it's clear: now it's important to gather together all the data that exists today about how the state is out there. And I'm optimistic; I don't think I see that there needs to be such a long run at this. As long as we get the data together, it's going to be pretty effective to get the necessary measures in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e231	I understand that the minister has not really taken a special position on this with the fjord line and they asked questions there. But over to data: the challenge is that we have huge amounts of data, more than we need, but we don't intend to use this for efficient resource control. Then the directorate and the department say that here's a new and better system. Is there a point here that one starts to see the end of this new system, which I know has been developing for quite a long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e238	No, you're very close to this. When I say that there is an incredible amount of data available today that you have knowledge of, you still lack some knowledge about collecting big data and seeing all this information in a context. This is going to be a bet from my side now. But when we had the fjord lines for treatment now, there was some sort of tightening up in this, with the debate that got into the wake of it, but it was pretty clear. So I also think we need something more about how climate change will affect our populations. Because we see that climate change also leads to fish stocks – different fish stocks and different species – moving on. It must also be part of this type of study, so that we are perfectly precise and accurate on what action we are going to take, for reasons both of the coast and of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e247	Finally, a question about English: One of the most funny, but perhaps illustrative, aspects of the lack of control is that the Norwegian legislation is not translated into English. This means that non-Norwegian actors operating in these oceans do not have access to the Norwegian legislation. I think it's a little awkward to get. Can the Council of State now say that in the very short term we are going to translate this legislation into English?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e252	I think the representative Knag Fylkesnes has challenged me on this at an earlier time. Therefore, I dare not guarantee anything, because when the representative Knag Fylkesnes says “very short” time – and I know that he is incredibly impatient – I take a reservation as to what is “very short” time. But now, brexit is likely to become a reality at some point in time, so also in such a context, it may be necessary to look at languages in legislation, etc. Because I am reasonably sure that the United Kingdom – as we see today – looks very much at Norwegian legislation when they become the big player after Brexit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e257	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e275	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e284	I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation during the examination of this proposal for a representative on the change in the requirement for the right to cash support. It has been reasonably easy and quick to decide on the proposal, as there is no doubt about where the respective parties stand in this matter. For the treatment of Inster. 368 L for 2016-2017 decided to introduce a five-year housing requirement for cash support, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The reason for the change was that the Solberg government at the time thought that the scheme contributed to making it more profitable for immigrants to be at home with children rather than to send them to the nursery. According to the government, the requirement for living would give immigrants stronger incentives to get into work more quickly and stimulate increased use of kindergarten. Following the adopted change in June 2017, we have seen a number of examples of families that have been unfairly affected by the requirement to live. This applies in particular to applicants who have been members of the public pension scheme their entire lives and who now experience that the new rules do not provide them with cash support because they have a partner who has less than five years of residence. Despite the fact that the Committee was now given the opportunity to take action to remedy this injustice, a majority of the Committee has nevertheless chosen to maintain the requirement to live. That's what the Central Party thinks is regrettable. We stand together with the Christian People's Party in this matter, for the Center Party is, in line with the Christian People's Party, engaged in the freedom of choice of the family. But I have noticed that the Workers' Party, the Left and the SV argue that the scheme must be terminated because it is anti-integrative and that it keeps migrant women at home. The whole point of the cash support is just to make it easier for parents to choose to be home with the youngest children. Cash support is targeted and applies to children between one and two years of age. It's a loving arrangement for many parents, because it's actually that not everyone wants, can or for other reasons will send their 1-year-olds to kindergarten. I think we politicians should respect that. Nor should we forget that immigrant women, as we talk about every time the cash support is up for discussion, are a composite group. They're not the same. It's e.g. higher professional participation among second-generation immigrant women and those taking higher education than among first-generation immigrant women. We also need to distinguish between those who come from EEA countries, those with short residence in Norway, those with a refugee and asylum background, and all the active women who use the scheme. Language skills, competences and professional experience are also essential factors explaining the professional participation of migrant women. Moreover, one must not overlook the fact that many of those who want to work face a good deal of obstacles in the labour market. There seems to be a lack of knowledge about who the cash beneficiaries are. When compiling the statistics Cash support among immigrants, which is an annual statistics on the mission of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, children are the unit of analysis. This means that variables such as parental residence, educational background or occupational status are not included. We therefore know too little about the mothers who receive the cash support. In fact, we know about land background and residence, but we do not know whether women are in part-time jobs, in practice through Nav, during education, have children with their grandparents while they go back to work after leaving leave, or whether they are working, but chooses the cash support to spend time with their children. There is a need for more knowledge about who the cash beneficiaries are, and that is why the Center Party, together with the Christian People's Party, promotes a proposal where we ask the government to acquire more knowledge about who the cash beneficiaries are. So to this with kindergarten participation and language training: there is no doubt that language competence and kindergarten participation are important. In fact, childhood participation among minority-speaking 1-year-olds is low compared to children from other populations. However, through an offensive effort, the total number of children in kindergarten among minority children has increased considerably. Eight out of ten children now go to kindergarten in those age groups that really take up languages and other things they get from kindergarten. Therefore, I am questioning the arguments that these very smallest children, who have barely begun to walk and so far developed speaking skills, must be in kindergarten, while other one-year-olds via cash support get the opportunity to be at home. I think we need to lower our shoulders a little bit and let the little ones be small. If, for various reasons, parents choose to wait with kindergarten start for the smallest, it is their right. I also believe that we should be careful to stigmatise a group as diverse as the immigrant women are. The cash support is a good arrangement, and the Central Party will continue to support it. That's why it's regrettable that a majority voted in favour of a living requirement last year. And once you have the opportunity to correct the unintended consequences, a majority chooses not to do so – unfortunately. I take up the proposal from the Central Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e314	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e319	The working party is opposed to the cash support. I guess there's no surprise for anyone in this room. It's because we think it's wrong to pay people not to take advantage of a well-being, i.e. kindergarten. In our opinion, cash support has played its part. It is well documented, by selection by selection, and concluded, by most of the parties in this room, that cash support is anti-integration, that it violates the working line principle, and that it goes beyond equality. It keeps kids at home who had benefited from going to kindergarten, being integrated and learning language. It is not a system that is sustainable in the Norwegian welfare state. But despite the fact that more and more parties – including the government – have concluded this, it is not a parliamentary majority to abolish the cash support during this period. It also takes the Workers' Party over. We are therefore committed to supporting and proposing changes to the cash support that could make the less integration inhibitor. Therefore, we supported the introduction of the housing requirement in the previous period. Then it turned out, as the rapporteur said – that is also why we have this debate today – that such a living requirement would be unfair to some people. It will also affect groups that were not meant to be affected. This will be the case with most cash benefits. You won't be able to make those kind of changes without being able to get individual cases where it's obviously unreasonable. It is difficult to have that kind of requirement and to ensure that it does not turn out unreasonable. It will be an impossible task for Nav, and we in the Workers' Party have concluded that the positive consequences of such a housing requirement outweigh the negative individual cases where it seems unreasonable. That's why we're at what we said in the last period. The requirement for residence is correct. It is helping to make an anti-integrative, anti-equality and anti-workline system a little less anti-integrative, and therefore we believe it will last. The Labour Party will support proposal No. 1 in the settings. We are also of course to get the most knowledge about who the cash beneficiaries are.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e330	The Act on cash support was amended in Stortinget in the spring of 2017. The five-year requirement for living was then introduced in order to receive cash support. It entered into force on 1 July 2017, and now, just under six months later, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party propose changes to the law, so that the residence requirement will apply only to the cash beneficiary and not to the other parent. The right view is that cash support is important for the freedom of choice of families with children, but that it was right for the Storting to make the tightening up of the requirement for five years of residence, for the sake of integration. If the requirement to live only applies to the cash beneficiary and not to the other parent, the requirement to live will be very easy to circumvent. One can imagine that the person who is in full-time employment and who fulfils the requirement for living will receive cash support, while the other parent is at home with the children. The importance of integration suggests that both parents have to meet the requirement. A clear majority of the Stortinget supports the rule that both parents have to meet the housing requirement, and also wished for this amendment when the Stortinget dealt with it at the end of the previous period. The Labour Party writes in its observations that they also believe that the requirement for living should be maintained for both parents, and we have heard that the representative of the Trettebergstuen has just said. We agree with your justification. It will be difficult to design exemption rules in such a way that they meet those that are well integrated. It will also be resource-intensive to deal with possible Nav exceptions. In the government statement, we are clear that we want to maintain the overall transfers to families with children, but that we want to assess the arrangements and scope of the various schemes aimed at ensuring good distribution and targeting against families with persistent low income. It's a completely natural follow-up of the Ellingsetter Committee's NOU, and we look forward to this work, and not least the discussions here in the Stortinge in the extension of that follow-up. It is fully possible to be a hot follower of cash support and at the same time to be a follower of the tightening that was carried out last year. Freedom of choice for families and the best interests of the child will always be strong for us in the Right. Just as kindergarten is a well-being, as the representative Trettebergstien said, cash support is also a well-being – an opportunity and freedom of choice for parents until the child is two years old. But at the same time, we know that the first few years after coming to a new country, after immigrants come to Norway, are very important to integrate well into society. Therefore, we believe that the change in introducing a five-year housing requirement for both parents in order to cancel cash support is correct, and we are still on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e343	The cash support has been for discussion both in this room and in the media, and not least in the municipalities. There is a discussion that is beneficial. I'm going to try to focus on what's actually being treated in this room today, and that's what's going on on the housing requirement for the right to cash support. It was a very important step for the Progress Party when it was passed and agreed with the asylum agreement that this was something to be done about. The result was a five-year requirement for both parents. We still believe that this remains important, precisely because it has given rise to some challenges for integration in Norway, as was the case in the past. Therefore, it has been thought that although freedom of choice for families is very important, it is right to do so in the interests of integration. What we know is that about 44 pst. of those who received cash support in 2016 were just families with a minority background. When we then know how important integration is, we need to make strict demands – precisely in order to achieve better integration. The former State Council has also stressed that for immigrants with short stays in Norway and without any connection to the labour market, cash support may weaken the motivation to work and to learn Norwegian. This we still believe is consideration as it is important to include in the debate. We believe that there is nothing new today that shows that the situation here has changed. It is important to encourage all children, including children of immigrants, to be sent to kindergarten, because they know that children learn Norwegian and become better and more integrated when they get this knowledge from an early age. It also does something about the situation that children come into when they're going to go to school later, where you're going to acquire a lot of the most important knowledge you're going to have in life later. In the first few years after asylum seekers or refugees come to Norway, it is incredibly important for integration through work to also acquire knowledge of culture, and not least of language, it is important to make some demands. I believe that the proposal that is being promoted today by the Christian People's Party does not help parents and children to master this in a better way. Then the government has announced that the scheme that was introduced last year will be evaluated in a year's time. I have full confidence that that evaluation will be good and will bring forward a number of the moments that have been called for more information from the pulpit here today. I look forward to the evaluation and the debate that may come at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e356	It is a well-known case that SV wants to replace the cash support with a waiting allowance for kindergarten, and that we would rather use the money as a priority to increase the amount of child benefit for all families with children. It is about cash support standing in the way of equality. At the same time, SV is clear that we do not accept double standards of well-being and benefits that reinforce the increasing social and economic differences. Living time requirements for cash support hit families with poor advice hard when people with a migrant background are overrepresented in poverty statistics. I don't believe that distress creates work, or that need gives people work. On the contrary, even worse economics only make life harder for them with the least. I have seen for myself how people dig themselves into misery, and that all forces agree to pay the next bill, the next debt collection claim. All forces agree to look up and down on Finn.no for shoes for the kids when winter comes. Then it will not be easy to be an active jobseeker, nor to integrate into the Norwegian community. That is why last year SV voted against Prop. 85 L for 2016-2017, in the case of a five-year residence requirement for a right to cash support. The representative proposal we are discussing today corrects one of the many unfair consequences of the government's demand for a living. Although we do not want cash support for gender equality reasons, we support proposals that can help correct unsocial, double standards in our well-being. Therefore, SV's representatives vote for proposal No. 2 to change the residence requirement. As regards proposal No: 1, the SV’s representatives vote against. There is already a good deal of knowledge about the cash support. Among other things, in the last eight years, a total of six public samples have treated the cash support well and thoroughly, drawn on research, and as is well known, everyone has concluded that the cash support should be liquidated. I recognise that cash support is a political explosive issue, and that for some it is clear that there is also a performance in the scheme, but the time for investigations about cash support is really over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e371	The left is concerned that we have sound welfare systems that ensure equal opportunities for all in society. Equal opportunities include: that all should have good assumptions for being active participants in society, and for immigrants, learning languages and getting out of work is the key to being able to participate in society on equivalent terms. After a long time of cash support, we have gained a lot of knowledge about the social effects it creates, and what research shows is that the scheme too often leads to mothers, especially in the immigrant environment, going home. This prevents active integration. Welfare schemes are unfortunate and actively facilitate the keeping of persons who have lived in Norway for a short time. It should be a clear goal to get as much work as possible. Not only will it be positive for the economy of the individual, for the family and for society; it is also important in terms of integration and gender equality. Then I notice that the proposers are busy pointing out that the requirement for living does not in itself contribute to more immigrant women coming to work. I believe that they ignore the knowledge we have about how the cash support actively acts as a barrier to this particular group, but at the same time I will give the proposers the right idea that this alone is not enough. That is why we need a set of measures, and that is precisely why the enlarged government in its declaration adds to an inclusion quo where getting people into work is one of the main objectives. In order to ensure the best possible starting point in life for children, it is important to give them the opportunity to develop language and social skills from an early age. They get this in kindergarten. This is particularly important for children of immigrant parents, because it is unfortunate that cash support actively deprives these children of the opportunity to improve their starting point in life. These effects will be enhanced in the absence of a housing requirement. For the Left, this is also a question of how to prioritize resources. We need to be sure that the welfare measures we spend money on actually work. We cannot afford to waste money if we are to ensure the sustainability of the welfare state in the future, and therefore, for the Left, it is important that we can just spend this money on measures that are more conducive to integration and inclusion. That's why I'm glad that the Left has had an impact on things, such as free core time in kindergarten for 3-5 year olds in low-income families. In addition, the government platform provides a similar scheme for SFO and AKS, with free half-day space for children in families where parents have poor advice. The left is concerned that we should lower the threshold for children to go to kindergarten and remove the financial barriers that prevent children from attending. At the same time, the Left is concerned that we should gain sufficient knowledge of the systems that exist. That is why we in the Left are going to support proposal No. 1 in this case. So I'll end by saying that the left is for freedom of choice, but also to give children and women the best possible starting point. That's what really creates more possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e386	I just want to first remind a little bit about what this matter is really about. We are promoting this proposal because a decision was taken in this Chamber before the summer that has subsequently proved to have some unintended negative consequences, as the rapporteur pointed out. For example, if a woman who has been a member of the Norwegian population since she was born marries a man from Egypt, and it turns out that he has less than five years of residence, she is refused cash support. This was not said about anything from the parties who voted in favour of this requirement before the summer. Most disappointed in this matter is the Workers' Party, because when the Workers' Party discovered these unintended consequences, a question was quickly sent to the Council of State. The working party signaled that this is a problem, we have to do something about it. So we feel that the Workers' Party is stretching its arms into the weather and does not want to fix these unintended consequences at all. The Christian People's Party voted against five years of living requirements, but we made our own proposal, a proposal that they had to take compulsory Norwegian education for less than three years to receive the cash support. To those who push the question of integration ahead of themselves and use it as the most important argument: Why did the Christian People’s Party not vote in favour of the proposal, which just linked language training to the cash support for them with less than three years’ living time requirements? Thus, five years’ living requirements have been adopted without linking them up to, for example. Norwegian training. I think that's strange, all the time you use the integration perspective as one of the most important arguments. I still cannot understand the vote against the proposals of the Christian People's Party a few months ago. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we have a good babysitting, that we have full babysitting. We want a high-quality kindergarten. We must not set up cash support and kindergarten against each other; these two things are closely linked in Christian People's Party policy. But we want to turn the ring around the freedom of choice. We want to make sure that the parents who want to be a little longer at home with their 1-year-old are allowed to do so. Children are different, families are different, and then we're going to make it possible for families of children to make their choices. I am responding to the use of words related to the cash support. The Labour Party says it's anti-equality, it's anti-integration, we can't pay people who choose wrong. For me, it almost sounds as if those who use the cash support are acting hostilely towards the welfare state of the Workers' Party. Back to what is the starting point of this case: We now tried to correct some unintended consequences of the proposal that was adopted before the summer. I record that there is no willingness to correct the injustice that has occurred. Instead, you push, for example, Navel in front of itself. I can promise that Nav will solve far more complicated matters than this matter. I am incredibly disappointed – not on behalf of the Christian People's Party, first of all, but on behalf of all those from whom we have received signals, who think this is very unfair, and who are now hit by a decision that I do not think was very well thought out. I address the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e405	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e411	Red is basically against cash support. Red wants to wind up the entire scheme. However, if this is to happen, there must be arrangements to ensure that families with poor finances do not become even poorer when cash support is removed. That's why we're going in for, among other things. free kindergartens, the doubling of family allowances, better Norwegian training and measures to prevent discrimination in the labour market. The proportion of children living in low-income families has increased sharply in recent years. Half of these have immigrant backgrounds. For us, it is important to avoid children's living conditions getting worse in a political draw. Good living conditions, having a job to go to, and not least having a kindergarten that is available, are fundamental to achieving good integration. On the other hand, living time requirements will increase poverty in low-income families. This requirement may also be discriminatory. In our view, it is unreasonable to introduce different standards for access to rights that are initially universal. Norway should not go in a direction where different standards become legitimate. It can create ground for conflict and poorer integration when it comes to feeling that someone does not deserve a right that everyone else gets. Although Red is against the cash support, we believe that as long as there is a support scheme, it should apply equally to all families with children. The requirement for living time is not conducive to integration; it is the creation of double standards. Therefore, Red is promoting proposals today to remove the requirement to live time introduced on 1 July 2017. We also support the proposal of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party to ask the government to acquire knowledge about who the cash beneficiaries are, with particular emphasis on professional status, educational background, reasons for using the scheme, and living conditions in general for this group. I'll bring this up on Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e422	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e427	The government is concerned that families of children should have freedom of choice, but at the same time we believe that it was right to tighten up cash support in the interests of integration. The introduction of five years of residence requirements was therefore a proposed restriction to be applied in general. The proposal was supported by, among others: The Directorate for Integration and Diversity, which stated that there should not be cash benefit schemes in the early years of Norway that make it economically beneficial to be away from the introduction programme. The proposal for a representative now under consideration implies that the requirement to live only applies to the cash beneficiary, nor should it affect Norwegian nationals who have been living abroad for a longer time. In the case of Norwegian citizens who have been abroad, I would like to point out that all living time earned in Norway is included in the assessment of whether the requirement to live is met. There is no requirement for an immediate prior residence. Therefore, only in very rare cases will Norwegian citizens not comply with the requirement to live. With regard to the proposal that only the cash beneficiary should meet the living requirement, I would say that if the living requirement is changed in this way, it would be very easy to bypass. It is not a requirement today that the beneficiary of the cash support is at home with the child. For example, the proposal for a representative and the amendments proposed there. imagine that one of the parents who is in full-time employment and who meets the requirement to live can be at home and receive cash support while the other parent is at home with the child. I believe that such a solution is not particularly fortunate. The five-year requirement for cash support is a general requirement, and I fully agree with those who say from this speaker that these families are different. They have different needs and different life situations. When it comes to the immigration perspective, these families are also different. Some are quickly integrated, and some may experience a general requirement for living as very unfair. I believe, however, that it will be a major challenge to make exceptions to the requirement for living time. The notion of non-discrimination speaks for a simple rule that everyone can relate to, and it will also be very difficult to design a provision that not only hits those who are not well integrated but who do not hit anyone else. As is so often the case with tightening up, situations and individual cases arise where the requirement can be perceived unfairly, but like several others from this pulpit, I am also of the opinion that this is weighed up by the positive consequences this bill change will have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e445	Non-discrimination is of the utmost importance. But there is a lack of equal treatment that makes a lot of people now feel that they are being discriminated against. There are people who have been a member of the Norwegian population for their entire lives, and who have found love with a non-Norway border, who now lose the opportunity to make use of a welfare scheme that everyone else has the opportunity to make use of. The notion of non-discrimination – it is precisely the opposite of these people who feel they are being subjected to. They're being subjected to an injustice. There are some consequences here that I do not believe the government parties saw when they adopted the requirement of five years' residence. Does the Council of State understand how these people feel, who feel that double standards have arisen around such a welfare scheme as cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e454	I am concerned that we should ensure the families freedom of choice and flexibility. Therefore, I am pleased that we still have the cash support scheme, but I also believe that the Christian People's Party must agree that we have an arrangement where one parent can be in full employment and meet the living requirement, but get cash support and be at home while the other parent is, is not the purpose of the arrangement. I understand that it could be unfortunate for individuals when we are doing tightening up, but I think we should be on the change that was made earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e461	The Christian People's Party is not allergic to cash support criticism. We are always willing to look at the arrangements we have, both the cash support and other arrangements, to see if they can be improved or arranged so that we, among other things, can. have no integration-retardant arrangements. But I just want to ask the Council of State, because you push the line of work in front of you: does the Council of State think that today's working life is organized so that it's easy for immigrant women to get into the workplace?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e468	I think we should do more to ensure that immigrant women enter the labour market. It is crucial for integration. It's about learning the Norwegian language, and it's about acquiring the skills you need to get a job. It's important not only for the individual woman, but also for the children and for the whole family. We're busy with that. I am glad that the Christian People's Party also says that one is concerned about assessing the cash support scheme, so that it among other things. shall not act as an integration inhibitor. That is why I am pleased that the Christian People's Party, together with the Center Party, has today promoted the proposal that the Stortinget ask the government to acquire additional knowledge about who the cash beneficiaries are, what the educational background is, and what is the reason they are using the cash support scheme. Although we have a lot of information that we're extracting from the SSB today, I'm not in doubt that it's useful to have broader knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e475	Thanks for the answer. I think it's a little strange that you talk so much about how important it is to, among other things. learn Norwegian. That's the key to getting into both society and work. Nevertheless, the majority in this Chamber were able to vote against the Christian People's Party's proposal that they should have compulsory Norwegian education for less than three years of residence. We attached Norwegian training to the cash support. I don't quite understand. Governments believe it is important to facilitate good knowledge, Norwegian knowledge. Nevertheless, one is voting against the only proposal that was promoted that actually had this element in it. I find it difficult to understand that one could vote against such a constructive proposal as that. What is the reason why five years of living requirements have now been introduced without linking Norwegian training to the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e484	I did not sit in this room and voted against that proposal, but in order to improve integration, especially in the case of minority women, we have to work along several lines. Then it is very important for the government to strengthen Norwegian education, not only for minority women, but also for men, while at the same time taking more steps to make it easier to get into Norwegian society, not only through work, but also in many other social arenas – within volunteering, within culture and sport. It is important to understand that children also participate in those arenas. It is important for children to grow up to be part of the communities we have around in our local communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e489	In this room, it has been recognised today that the requirement for living has had some unintended and unfortunate consequences for some groups. Similarly, a majority – the Council of State too – wants us not to look at the proposals for changes that have been made in the case, including: Because it's better to have a simple rule. But even the Workers' Party has seen that this is troubling. The council also mentions it. I get a little insecure: is the Council of States going to look at schemes that can correct this unfairness? Maybe you didn't agree exactly what the proposal looked like today, but there might be other opportunities to do something about this that affects people in an unfair way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e495	We have said in the government statement that we want to maintain the overall transfers to the families with children, but we have also said that we want to look at the device. To look at how to ensure that families of children receive support that hits them will be part of that assessment. Now we're going to spend about 80 billion dollars. for support to families with children in Norway. We've got rust arrangements. I'm concerned that they're going to get there. At the same time, I would like to say that the decision on living requirements that was taken here last year, and for which there is a broad majority in the Stortinget, we are going to stand by. I admit that it is unfortunate that it may seem unreasonable for some, but it is compensated for by the positive effects that the requirement for living is intended to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e500	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e507	I take the floor to give an explanation of vote. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also supports proposal No. 1, to acquire more knowledge. It is well explained in the debate today that we may need to do so. We also expect the government to be based on previous evaluations, studies and information available in its knowledge acquisition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e512	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e524	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e549	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Center Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to remove the housing requirement for the right to cash support introduced on 1 July 2017.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e578	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for a modified cash support law, so that the housing requirement adopted by the Stortinget on 8 June 2017 only applies to the cash beneficiary and also does not affect Norwegian citizens who have had a longer stay abroad.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e595	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to acquire knowledge of who the cash beneficiaries are, with particular emphasis on professional status, educational background, reasons for using the scheme, and living conditions in general for this group.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left, the Left, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal. – No one has stood up, and it has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e607	There was a mistake in the President's explanation of vote. SV shall vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e612	Would SV vote against? – Well, then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e631	Behind the setting are the Working Party, Right, Advance Party and Left. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-01.ana.ud515e701	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
