ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e104	Honourable co-representatives! On Friday 5 October, we received the message that our colleague’s representative Ivar Odnes had gone away after a short period of time. Ivar Odnes was 55 years old and placed on the Upplands bench for the Center Party until his death. Ivar Odnes grew up in Wågå in Gudbrandsdalen and was a builder before he later entered the policy – first locally in the home municipality, then as county representative in Uppland, until he became county commodity rapporteur in the same county in 2011. At Stortinget he was first inmate as an alternate before he was elected permanent representative in 2017. Here he sat as a member of the Transport and Communications Committee. Ivar Odnes had much done in his work as a poacher, and he had a lot of will to get things done. He had a lot of knowledge across different disciplines, and this autumn he was going to start work on developing new proposals in the field of transport policy. Ivar Odnes had a strong position in the Centre Party's big group and was well pleased in the committee's work together with representatives of all parties. When Ivar did something, he did it really. The foundation wall was supposed to be proper, whether he built houses or made political solutions. He had ideas that inspired, and knowledge that was of great benefit both inside and outside the party. He wasn't the politician who was struggling with big words. But he was one who listened, and one who was listened to – a team player who made results by putting the community first. Ivar Odnes was a guy all liked, and who never forgot where he came from. There was no doubt that he was from Wågå, even though he lived in East Toten in the last few years and in part in Oslo. Both as a private individual and politician he had looked forward, but the perspectives were well anchored in our common cultural heritage. Especially was the folk music important to him – and the error was never far away. Together with the group Nye Ringnesin he won the Spellemann Prize in the singer folk music, and for many years he was also in the board of Norwegian Cultural Heritage. For its efforts for our common cultural heritage, Ivar Odnes has been awarded the Norwegian Cultural Heritage Foundation's golden needle post-mortem. It's a heavy waste that Ivar Odnes is gone, also for all of us here on the Stortinget. We bring peace to the memory of Ivar Odnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e136	A number of permit applications are available: by the Central Party Group on the Welfare Permit of the representative of Geir Pollestad as from 4 December and until further notice, from the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of the representative Trond Giske from 4 December to 6 December from the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative of Kari Henriksen from 5 December to 7 December to attend meetings of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in the European Parliamentary Assembly in Milan by the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative of the Himanshu Gulati on 5 and 6 December to take part in the Parliamentary Intelligence Security Forum in Washington from the Central Party Group on the Permit of the Representative for the Lib Signe Navarsete from 5 December to 12 December to take part in the Parliamentary Intelligence Security Forum and meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Rogaland County, Hanne Marte Vatnaland, is currently in parental leave and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the leave of the representative of Geir Pollestad. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Western Agder states: Odd Omland 5–6. December For Akershus County: Liv Gustavsen 5.–6. December For the Rogaland County: Arne Bergsvåg 4 December and until further notice For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Steinar Ness 5–12. December For South Trondelag: Kristian Torve 4–6. December – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Arne Bergsvåg and Kristian Torve are present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's Storting meeting continues beyond noon. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e233	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e242	The report of the Riksrevision on emergency placements in child protection is very important. For those involved, it is essential that we as a society set up, that we have good practices, and that there is security for good follow-up in an emergency situation. I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation and dialogue in its work on the matter. We were given an informative consultation, which was a good update and follow-up of the report for the members of the committee. I would also like to underline a great deal of consensus within the Committee, although, in particular, the political lines of division are evident on one point. I'm going to come back to that, but first of all I need to praise all the good employees who every day carry out demanding tasks and give of themselves that children and young people who need it will get help for a good upbringing. I have always said that the employees who impressed me most in my time as rapporteur were the employees of child protection. In addition to its complex starting point, acute locations have an exceptionally demanding pressure on rapid decision-making. Thank you to everyone who contributes to this work. In its studies, the National Audit Office finds points that can be improved. We have to take that seriously. There are too many differences between regions. It shall not be such that where you live, the assistance you receive will be determined when an emergency need arises. This seems to be related to two other findings. The first is that according to the report, it is not always the municipal child protection service that gets the decisive word in the choice of measures for children to be hospitalised, and the second is that Bufetat cannot offer all children an appropriate emergency service. Both the report and the consultation have underlined that it repeatedly turns out that there is not enough capacity and sufficient variation in the offer for this group. It is then difficult to provide an adapted offer, and there are some unreasonable assessments that need to balance the possibility of finding a good offer with the distance from it. Distance may in many cases worsen the situation for the child and for the municipality during the follow-up phase, and distance is therefore an essential element. In this assessment of the offer, one comes back to the conclusion that the municipalities feel overwhelmed and do not get the decisive word in the choice of offers. Not only is it natural to assume that it is the child's municipality of residence that can best assess what is best for the child in the difficult situation, but it is also the law on the protection of children: the municipality should have the decisive word. Many suggest that increasing the volume and diversity of this offer will eliminate many of the conflicts that arise between municipal child protection and Bufatat. It is therefore good to register that the government has launched a targeted offensive to recruit more offers. I hope they succeed. However, the most serious finding in the Riksrevision report is that it is so clear that there is a different interpretation of the legislation dealing with the assistance obligation of Buffetat towards municipalities to assist when children are to be placed away from home. Here, too, the Council of State has taken the initiative of clearing up. However, the feedback in the hearing is that there is still a different interpretation of the obligation to provide assistance and that it is important that the Council of State continues its follow-up. The work of Buffetat and the Child Welfare Service in these cases is about offering a good offer to children in a vulnerable situation, and we need to be sure that disagreement does not stand in the way of quickly putting in place an offer for the benefit of the child who depends on us to set up. Much has been done, but the Council of State must not resign until agreement can be reached on the basis of both parties. So to the political dividing line: The Riksrevision has concluded that private providers should not be part of the emergency response offer and that it is the state offer that needs to be expanded – this due to challenges of quality assurance for the private. The left-hand side of the policy has been behind this, while in the right-hand corner we can't in any way see that this is a natural conclusion. All municipal services present at the hearing also concluded that it was completely indifferent who owns and operates the offer. There are both ideal and other private offers that can address the lack of both volume and variation, and I cannot believe that we are going to make sure that children do not get the right offer where alternatives are available. Strict monitoring of the quality of the offer can be carried out both in advance and in evaluation and follow-up, and it should therefore be natural to consider how to use all good resources to put in place an offer that allows all children in all parts of the country to receive the best possible offer when the difficult situation arises. Thank you to the Council of State, which has so clearly signaled the follow-up to the Riksrevision's findings. These children deserve our attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e261	First of all, thank the case spokesperson for his good work on the matter. Our welfare society is really being tested when the weakest of us are being subjected to care failure. We need to recognize that a safe home is not a everyday life for everyone, and that it is going to be extra serious when it comes to children. In other words, the National Audit Office has done a very important job when examining them through the emergency assistance obligation of the Child, Youth and Family Budget. Taking a child out of the family is a dramatic act on the part of society. There is a very stressful situation for each child and for those who are close to the child. This is precisely why it is so fundamental that this is handled by wise and competent adults. The main findings are on co-treatment, differing interpretations of legislation, violation of the laws of who has the decisive word in the choice of emergency care for children, lack of appropriate emergency services and geographical variation. Together with the National Audit Office's report, the Committee has also contributed to the creation of an important basis and useful knowledge. We now know that more than half of the municipal child protection leaders indicate that they have approved emergency services with which they were not professionally satisfied. We know that there are no available and adequate measures. And we know that 75 pst. by the municipal child-restraint leaders, Buffetat and the municipal child-restraint services do not share a common understanding of the fulfilment of the obligation to provide assistance. The National Audit Office considers that it is unfortunate that young people in some regions are less likely to be accommodated in an emergency room than young people in other regions. All children and young people who need it are quick to get a shelter. And then the most approachable question is, How do you get enough shelters, and what does it require? The majority of the committee believes that the government itself must take responsibility for the lack of capacity in the public child protection service and indicates that the government in the 2018 budget is cutting the government's commitment to the state child protection by 640 million. kr, at the same time as they increase the fees for the purchase of private child-resistance services by 500 million. kr. This shows that the department has deliberately chosen to stimulate further privatisation rather than public child protection. A single committee has come to: ‘The Committee is surprised and concerned that the lack of common understanding has been made available for so long.’ In addition, the Committee underlines: ‘It is particularly alarming that there is no agreement on the fulfilment of the obligation to provide assistance.’ And finally: ‘The Committee will point to the department’s responsibility to follow up the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in force and address shortcomings and challenges’ – etc. Summerly, this is an unsustainable situation that has been going on for a long time, and where the department's responsibility is open. While the Committee is mainly in the margins of its comments and joins the National Audit Board's recommendations, the majority, which is also part of the Labour Party, point out that public child protection should be upgraded when capacity is involved, so that all emergency services can be publicly available, in order to provide children with the safest possible supply in a vulnerable situation, and that the use of private providers should only be a supplement and used in precarious situations. I also refer here to the National Children's Protection Association, which, during the hearing, made it clear that supply had to be in the public domain. The quality of child protection can be improved by the fact that the money spent on the state budget is actually spent on child protection. Still looking at the fact that private commercial groups make themselves rich on the community's promises of child protection must end. The same is true of exaggeration of supply bureaucracy. Every child and every family is unique. Therefore, child protection is not available at a single price and should be provided as a motive. Non-profit organisations with no service objectives have a long tradition of cooperating with the public on important and quality well-being services. Through the supply system, these are coming under increasing pressure. Future child protection needs to be built around the development and strengthening of this cooperation – for the benefit of their children and parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e302	It is serious when the parties who take care of the most vulnerable of us do not agree on how to interpret the legislation between themselves. In the extreme sense, this can have dramatic consequences. The interpretation of the rules shall not impose any additional burden on young people who, in an emergency position, are already in a bad and difficult situation. I would like to thank the National Audit Office for the work they have done. I think it's absolutely decisive that one gets such things out on the table, so that one gets a thorough debate about it. I think everyone should have wished that child protection could have focused more on the prevention work. But it is also not clear what is meant by prevention and how to work in this area. Prevention can be so lacking. In recent years, there has been a considerable increase in the number of child-rescue cases across the country. In the Center Party, we are pleased that much good change has taken place before child protection in the last few years, but we are not in the target. When we now see a lot of resource-requiring things, it is important to follow up on the most vulnerable children. I find it strange, like others in the committee, that the local community's stakeholder organisation, KS, has not seen this on the agenda. When the municipal child protection service does not always get the decisive word in the choice of measures for the children to be hospitalised, this is a violation of the law. It's the municipal service that knows most about the kids, and that's how to have the decisive word. Of course, when young people are exposed to something as dramatic as an emergency position, there should not be any I am pleased that the majority in the Committee have concluded that it is serious that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has not ensured that the current legislation is interpreted in the same way and that, in some cases, Bufetat has adequate measures that are not appropriate for young people. It's almost so I find it strange that the other members of the committee don't share the view on what the Riksrevision has come up to. The same applies to the view of the public and commercial actors. Like the National Children's Association, the Centre believes that it is the public that should be responsible for child protection, and that it is only in special cases where the public in some way is unable to provide, that one should turn to other actors. Around the country, there is a good job being done in the Child Welfare Service. Young people who need help and help are just as different as other kids. Therefore, there is no template for what is good work or not. We got the hearing that the committee had in connection with this case, recording from different places about how they solved their tasks. Kongsberg had his model, with family council that worked well there. It's great that someone is trying to get to the point early. At the same time, it is important that municipalities make arrangements that are adapted to the everyday life of each municipality, and I am happy with the work being done to try to find out: What works best for our municipality? Child Protection is a matter that concerns many, and we have also seen that the Municipal Report has child protection as one of the areas that one looks at when a set together the so-called Municipal Survey annually. I find it difficult to see that the Child Welfare Service, and especially in those cases we are talking about here, the emergency position, can be placed in a frame where you can set up municipalities against each other. But at the same time, I think the municipalities have a lot of lessons to learn from each other in the way they solve the problems. It also makes it necessary that Bufetat is a good listener and has a good dialogue with everyone. Nevertheless, one should be careful to condemn child protection based on reported figures to the Statistical Central Bureau. The most important thing we can do is to have a child protection service that focuses fully on the most important thing: the children. For this reason, the Committee has agreed with the recommendation of the Riksrevision that it should facilitate the provision of a Buffetate offer to all children who are in need of emergency care, which is in accordance with the promise of their superior principle that the best interests of the young are to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e330	I am very pleased with one of the Committee's unanimous remarks, in which we stress the importance of assessing opportunities in the child's family and network where it is best for the child. When I am satisfied, it is because in earlier times there were some people in the field of child protection who claimed to avoid having any special contact with and placing children in emergency situations with relatives. That this is now established is very fine, and I hope the department will follow it up in the child protection instruction system. Concern has been expressed about the lack of a common understanding of the obligation to provide assistance. The Committee has noted that the Ministry has taken an initiative to gain a common understanding, but that it may still need to be followed up in the future. I take it as a matter of course that the department will be aware of the responsibility it has to follow up on the fact that there will be a common sense of the role of the local child protection service. So, as mentioned earlier, there is the usual difference between the opposition and the government fraction in the use of private operators. I cannot see that it is not in the public domain even though it is private providers that perform a service. Even if you buy places in ideal or commercial child protection associations or businesses, it will be child protection that has the overall responsibility, and it will be in the public domain even if it is private. The advantage of private is the flexibility of the municipal users of the services. It is also true that experience in many areas shows that when work is carried out by a municipal office or a public enterprise, it is not by definition better quality work. There are still reports that public activities are violating laws and regulations – the Working Environment Act and other laws – and we have had NRK’s series on mental health protection, which is a major criticism of public health. The advantage of private is that if they do not do a good enough job, you cancel the contract and stop using it. If it's a public enterprise, it probably never happens that leaders or others lose their jobs. They continue to do a bad job, and there are no reactions. That's why, in my view, it's a fundamental advantage to have the flexibility to use private. If you don't keep your goals, you stop using them, and then you stimulate those who are good. It is also very useful that the Committee has gone a little beyond the report of the National Audit Office by saying: ‘The use of family councils and early dialogue with families in challenging situations has been reinforced as working methods in the field of child protection. [[...]] This appears to be capable of reducing the number of emergency positions, and the Committee will agree that in many cases this could be a much better option.» I hope the Council of State has noticed this and may be able to spread this tool and this method to many others. In particular, I would like to mention that it is of great importance that child protection in those parts of the country where we have a large immigrant population is so attentive to the extra problems and challenges that children of immigrant parents can have in terms of growing up with different cultural understandings, different cultures and different rules of practice and use. There's plenty of examples there. Then, as the committee says, the best thing for the child is to come to the high seat. It is not the parents' wish that the children should be brought up in the culture and customs that they had in the country from which they have travelled. The child's best interests go ahead of his parents in this way, and I hope it gets intensified towards those who work in child protection, that it should be what is in force in our country. It is the child's best that applies, not the parents' desire to raise the children as they would if they were in the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e352	This is when child protection is really being tested, when it comes to emergency services, which is the most recent measure to be taken, a fact that a lot of the wrong has happened in advance. I want to thank the National Audit Office for a good and thorough report, which gives us a very good opportunity to look at the child protection services in general through the most critical flash. I would also like to thank the case spokesman for a thorough management of the process, and not least for following up on what the Riksaudition has been concerned about. Findna's dark, we can say. The fact that there are very different interpretations of the legislation is a problem in itself, even internally in Bufetat's own regions, between municipal child protection services and Bufetat – i.e. in most directions. 36 pst. by the child-responsors ‘do not know’ and 37 pst. answers ‘no’ to the question of whether they have a common understanding with Buffetat of when the obligation to provide assistance is fulfilled. What do these differences consist of? Is it such that Buffetat claims that an emergency situation is leading, or is it such that when a case is reported to the police, Buffetat's assistance can occur? There is a big difference, because if you start as early as possible, you have a time to plan. However, if one is to be silent first when an emergency situation occurs, there is an extremely poor time. Then, as the Riksrevision points out, there is a big problem – that one gets two hours to find a professional defence offer, and then it says to itself that it is very difficult. It is also confirmed by the National Audit Office that the municipal child protection service does not get the last word in the choice of emergency positioning measures, as provided by law. Lack of available measures at Bufetat means that the municipal child protection service does not always have to decide which emergency measures are to be selected, and the consequence is that municipal child protection approves measures they do not believe are consistent with the child’s needs. It's very serious. Who can do this in particular? It is clear that offering an emergency position that does not match the child’s needs is serious in itself, but there are especially some groups that are very negative for: infants and young children – the need for continuity and care in association with parents is particularly great in these cases, especially if they have to move far and get a bad offer children with a minority background, where both the Convention on the Protection of Children and the Child Protection Act require that the linguistic and cultural continuity of the child be taken into account; children and young people with mental disorders, with a high need for protection and individualised interventions, who are placed at child protection institutions, and so on – perhaps the most vulnerable among us I would like to point out in particular what is on page 7 of the setting, where the majority point out what Bufdir also says in the 2017 release note. It states that ‘single purchase of private foster homes involves a high risk of safety’. This is where the core of the problem lies. The big hindrance that this case has become so serious is that the child-restraint promise will come to an end from the financial year 2014. It was the last budget where the red-greens had clear images. Then stopped it up. There has hardly been any increase in the number of children’s protection services added after the financial year 2014. In 2018 cut one back to 600 million. kr in the National Child Protection Agency, and then gave 500 million. NOK for the purchase of private services. That's exactly what the Riksrevision points out is the problem. It's the purchase of private services, i.e., single purchases in emergency situations, where one goes into the open market and has two hours to find a professional defence offer. Then a problem has just arisen, and it is obvious that there should be a public buffer here, where one can plan, and where one has extra capacity to deal with these situations. If not, we will end up in exactly the situations that we end up in here – that we offer the most vulnerable in some of us a poor professional defence offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e377	It really is the situation of the most vulnerable children we are discussing today. Children and young people living under conditions that may harm their health and development shall receive the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner. The Riksrevision findings are serious because they're about very vulnerable children who don't get the help they need, at the time they need it the most. This is about thousands of children who are forced out of their homes, but who don't necessarily get better afterwards, and who may not get the help that could actually give them a different life. We also see that there are regional variations in emergency services and that emergency services are not always tailored to the needs of the child. It is the municipal child protection service that decides whether a child should be hospitalised, and then it is the responsibility of the Bufeta to assist the municipal child protection service in the placement of children away from home. In such a vulnerable situation, it is particularly important to look for the best measures for the child. There is little doubt that, in general, child protection services, and the work on emergency accommodation in particular, are demanding in order to make good decisions and find the best solutions for the children concerned. Good coordination, good judgment and, in particular, clear and clarified procedures and roles are required to meet the needs of the child. I refer you to the rapporteur's good review, and I just want to point out a couple of relationships. The challenges surrounding the understanding and follow-up of the obligation to provide assistance contribute to many unnecessary discussions about individual child services. Therefore, there is reason to note the attention of the National Audit Office to the major differences in both the understanding and management of the assistance obligation of Buffetat in relation to the municipal child protection service in the emergency position. A different understanding seems to contribute to the fact that too many children do not receive the offer they should receive when a person uses the best interests of the child. It should therefore be a central task for the Ministry to contribute to a common understanding of such a central provision of the Code of Acute Positions. We expect initiatives both from the Department and from the KS to develop such a common understanding. The Christian People's Party will otherwise draw attention to Decision 762 of 28 May 2018, which states: ‘The government is asked to secure long-term and ongoing contracts with non-profit institutions serving households, leading to an increase in the proportion of non-profit institutions serving households to around 40 p.m. by 2025, while not reducing the public share of institutional places.» This is a decision that clearly points towards a gradual increase in non-profit actors, without reducing the public interest. The Christian People's Party expects this to be put up to a practice with regard to buying places in child protection there a 40 pst. The share of non-profits may be reached by 2025, as decided by the Stortinget. And then, of course, the same quality criteria must be applied to the service as you do to ensure that these vulnerable children are offered the best possible range to suit the needs of each child.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e395	I want to start by saying that I am pleased that the committee initiated a hearing on this matter, and that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee gives this field and this matter the attention it deserves. Because even if there's a very good child protection work done around the country every single day, we're going to be self-critical. We'll always see what we can do even better. This concerns our child protection service, but it also applies to Norwegian authorities. I am serious about the fact that the Riksrevision has found that there is a different interpretation of the obligation to provide assistance. It has therefore been very important that the Children’s and Family Directorate has provided a number of clarifications on the content of the obligation to provide assistance. This also means that I am working on a work that assesses whether some parts of the interaction between the municipalities and Buffetat can be suitable for regulation in regulations. At the same time, it is important to be aware that it will not be possible to regulate in detail the content of the obligation to provide assistance, as discretionary considerations and balances in each case must always be made. Where the municipality often sees the child's needs in isolation and Buffetat comes in with his or her professional starting point, there are discussions and different perspectives to take care of. But the important thing is that it's a good dialogue, and that you can work together to find out what's best for the child in the emergency situation and with the very measured time you have. As the Committee has noted, capacity is a key factor in which Bufetate must have an available and sufficiently varied emergency service to fulfil its obligation to provide assistance. It is difficult to establish this type of offer in the vicinity of all municipalities around the country. The emergency service concerns a small number of children, making demand unpredictable. We have taken a number of measures to increase capacity, and the most important thing we are working on, which has a high priority, is the recruitment of several shelters and foster homes. I am very pleased that the Committee has highlighted the importance of assessing the possibility of placement in the child's family and network. This is a new line in Norwegian Child Protection, and this has been announced by the government. Rather, as has been the case in the past, it is now a responsibility to study the child’s family, relatives, networks, friends at the child’s breeding site to find people who can take care of the child, rather than to move the child as far away as possible from their family and their breeding environment. We believe that moving away from our family at the same time as moving away from their home, from their school, from their grandmother, will be of great importance. I am also pleased that the Committee recognises the use of family councils, which Bufdir took the initiative several years ago – already in 2012, I think it was. We see that some municipalities are actively using it, among other things. Kongsberg, whom I am happy to visit on Friday, to see how the municipalities are much more able to mitigate the level of conflict, and where the child protection service goes in with the family of the child and tries to find common solutions. I notice that the majority of the committee claims that the department has deliberately chosen to stimulate increased privatisation at the expense of public child protection. That's not true. I am a little surprised to hear that criticism from the pulpit again, especially after my predecessor sent a letter to the Workers' Party's financial fraction after the budget was presented in 2017, where it was made clear that the movement of 500 million was mentioned. kr in the 2018 government budget did not result in a change in the use of funds or increase in the purchase of private services. It was a budgetary shift that does not reflect any distortion of the use of measures from 2017 to 2018. The field is under public control – it is today, and it still has to be. Privates must be a supplement. It is in line with Bufetat's practice and objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e412	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e417	There is raised doubt that any child’s need for help to a safe home in an emergency will have to be felt as a crisis. It is frightening and serious for both children and adults, who are unable to care for their needs. In such situations, the community and the welfare community are really put to the test. It is therefore unusually serious when the Riksrevision puts on the blue lights and indicates that it fails and places the authorities responsible. The National Audit Office points out major differences in the understanding and management of the assistance obligation of Buffetat vis-à-vis the municipal child protection service when children need emergency placements. We agree on the seriousness. Can the Council of State then explain how it is possible to ignore developments that have led most municipal child protection leaders to believe that the obligation to provide assistance is unclear?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e427	If you read this report carefully, you will find that the obligation to provide assistance is broken in some cases. At the same time, it is primarily dissatisfaction from the municipalities in this survey, it is not necessarily a violation of the law. I have encouraged the municipalities, through KS and others, to report to the County if the law is broken. We see that happens in very few cases. I believe it is important to report just so that it can give us an image and an insight into the situation. What the Riksrevision points out is a dissatisfaction on the part of the municipalities that they do not always get their first wish. As the Committee knows, within a very short time these matters need to be settled. The fact that Buffetat has a different professional approach than what the municipalities primarily offer as input from their point of view, we also need to understand. The most important thing is that they find good action in a dialogue between the two actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e434	Dissatisfaction or breakage — there is unclear interpretation of the code. It's totally fixed. And those who bear the burden for it are the children. According to the Riksrevisionen bisto Bufetat last year with 2 098 emergency measures. There are many children and families in crisis. We as a community should be able to assure ourselves that such a situation was handled in a good and qualified manner and with the best of the children as a basis. At the hearing of the Control Committee in October of this year, the State Council of Hofstad, Greece, stated the following: ‘In a short time, perhaps our most recently educated child-restraint staff will move out and make a decision that is in the best interests of the child. ...’, etc. Does the Council of State think this is a recognizable description of the everyday life of child protection? What initiatives has she taken to change it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e448	We've had to take a lot of initiatives. This government has done so for five years after we took over after the red-greens, when it was seen that there was a total lack of thinking about competence and a lack of competence from the political side. This government has taken the initiative in a major child protection reform. We are now submitting a new Children's Protection Act, which is to be sent to the hearing after Christmas. So it's working to improve the quality of the kids every day, consistently. What is important is that decisions on the needs of the child in the individual case are made on a knowledge-based basis. We see that we're going to have an appliance in every municipality around the country, with an emergency offer, we're going to have to use completely different cost frameworks on child protection. The question is whether that is right, and whether it benefits the most possible children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e455	I'm a little surprised that the Council of State highlights how excellent she is, in a matter as serious as this, and where criticism from the National Audit Office has been so hard on the state child protection and the work of the Department and the Council of State. This is not the time to highlight how good we are, this is the time to fold up the sleeves and start working. The council reacts to the plural saying that one here has cut the state child protection. But the speech is clear: For 2018 cut one 640 million. kr to the State Children's Protection Agency, and then gave 500 million. NOK for the purchase of private child-resistance services. So one took with one hand, and then one gave with the other – like a clean cut. And it's just a single purchase of private child-resistance services that is a bit of the core problem here. So when does the Council of State end the practice of single purchase of private emergency positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e462	I do not understand what the representative thinks should be mentioned by my own excellence. Although the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality had been run by a Swedish State Council for several years, representatives from SV only have to admit that when a new government took over, many, many measures had to be taken to raise capacity and ensure quality, so that all children in child protection are given the best possible offer. That's not true, what SV claims. This was the 500-million-dollar movement. kr did not result in a change in the use of funds or an increase in the purchase of private services. It was a budgetary move. It does not reflect the distortion of the use of measures from 2017 to 2018, and I stress that emergency child protection is still the public responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e469	From the Christian People's Party we have been and are very concerned with the recruitment of foster homes, but we are also concerned with the role of family protection by preventing the need for that kind of emergency action. Do the Councils see the possibility and need for closer cooperation between family protection and child protection in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e474	I would like to thank Mr Gruvan for his question. It is a very important perspective on prevention and helping children, and not least their parents and their families, in the best possible way. Now family protection has had a historic increase, not least thanks to the Christian People's Party, in recent years. We see that family protection is now working against both child protection and the courts to facilitate conflict management and the level of conflict, as well as to take preventive action, as other agencies have been charged with earlier because the cases have gone too far. We see that it's a lot to get the parties together around the same table, get them to talk together and get an understanding of each other's position. Family protection is doing a tremendously important job, and now they also have the resources to escalate further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e479	One of the points of the Riksrevision's serious criticism is that the municipal child protection service does not always get the decisive word. It is serious because it is the municipal child protection service that sits tight on the child, and that is usually also where the involvement, which is so important, takes place. At the same time, 80 pst says. by municipal child protection employees that they have too many cases and too little time to do a good enough job. After the red-green child-restraint lift of 1000 new positions for municipal child-rescue protection by ear-marked means, it has been cancelled. There have been nearly 100 new posts through earmarked funds. Does the Council of State see that there is a link between the quality that the municipal child protection service can provide, including in the case of emergency placements, and that employees are simply out of time because of the limited resources allocated to employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e488	I agree that time is absolutely an important factor in many of these matters. As the representative of Øvstegård knows well, the emergency cases are very time-consuming, and there is a need for rapid clarification. What is often seen is that the municipal child protection service has a desire for the child in terms of accommodation, for example: in the vicinity of the child's place of growth, and that the municipality places some emphasis on needs other than the professional approach taken by Bufetat. What we also see is that dialogue and cooperation between the two actors can improve. But it's not always the worst thing, because in most cases they come up with a good and amicable solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e493	I interpret the answer as that at least the Council of State sees a context, and that it is important that the employees, including in municipal child protection, have time and resources and the opportunity to follow up each child in an adequate manner, perhaps especially in emergency situations, which is at present. But that's the way I said in my question, that over 80 pst. by the employees of the municipal child protection service do not have time, they feel, to follow up well enough each child. There are also examples of municipal child protection services where there are over 30 cases where one child-responsible child-responsible child-responsible municipal child-responsive services have – 30 cases with 30 individual needs, with families. At the same time, this government has drastically scaled down the effort to put in place new, earmarked positions for the municipal child protection service. That is why I will again ask the Council of State: why?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e500	Over the past few years, we have seen a dramatic increase in child protection by about 1,000 out-of-town jobs. What is also important is competence, because competence is what is essential for making the right decision for the individual child. I am very concerned that when a child needs help or is talking about moving, it is necessary to take the right decision immediately. We see that too many children are being moved, and that different relief measures are being tried out. What's the reason for that? Well, it's that over too many years you haven't put enough emphasis on competence. We see newly-trained child protection educators with three-year education move out into very difficult and complicated matters. They are under enormous pressure, and they have a short time to make decisions. That's why the government is now going through the education system and the authorisation system, so that we can make sure that we get the best qualified people to work with the heaviest and most complicated things.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e506	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e513	I'm glad of the Riksrevision report. It's important. So every day, all over the country, child protection employees face complex ethical and moral dilemmas and are to take decisions that affect the child and his parents deeply. The national audit has revealed serious errors in the interpretation of the law and in the practice of providing children in need of community assistance with the assistance they should have under the law. Sometimes I think, what would have happened if this were about seriously ill children who needed emergency hospitalization, for example. in the event of a serious epileptic seizure, and the doctor had received the following message: unfortunately, we do not have a place at the post of a neurologic child, but we have a place in an adult surgical post. That's what we have. But there's a doctor there who's been working with children before, and there's food and medicine that the child needs. No one would have found it. I tickle that there had been writing and critical comments from quite a lot. Yes, I can even think that the Minister of Health had gone out quickly, calmed parents and children and said, "Don't be like that, this has to be fixed." In the case of children under child protection, there is less involvement. That's too bad. They deserve more. And that's why the report is so important. The working party has been committed to recognising the work done in practice, which is about preventing and having time to make good judgements, so that orders are as precise as possible. It's about having time to listen to the child and the parents. It's also about the processing. Therefore, every year, the Workers' Party has continued to have the red-green government's designation, with a few hundred million dollars for several positions in municipal child protection, because it will make a difference for the children, for the prevention, for the decisions, for the follow-up and for the understanding of its own authority. FO writes in an article in the Municipal Report that only 69 pst. by the Child Welfare Service, it has been possible to facilitate emergency preparedness, which has been initiated by the Council of State. FO is concerned about the resources, because they don't follow, and we share that concern. However, only more resources are not enough. Quality assurance of locations is challenging. In the South, several branches of commercial institutions have been closed, including: due to lack of professional competence, and few call for warning. I refer to the Christian People's Party and the representative of Groevan, who mentioned the representative proposal from the Workers' Party to increase the proportion of non-profit actors, and I agree with that. The Council of State has taken the initiative to follow this up — that is good — and she must do so with the seriousness of this matter. We can't live in a society that fails children. This just needs to be fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e532	Childcare is perhaps one of the most important services we have in society. It's about caring for and protecting some of the most vulnerable among us. That is why this report is so serious. I have to add to the previous speech and ask the question whether there might have been more trouble and attention about this to someone other than just these vulnerable children, who is now going to fail. We can't accept that. It's a political responsibility to dimension up child protection so it can give it the help every child needs, when, among other things, it needs. relate to the number of emergency and emergency facilities available in the municipal child protection service. For example, this is a case in point. on resources. There's not enough capacity in Bufetat, there's not enough shelter available. That is why we end up in this situation. It's a political responsibility. The municipal child protection service, as mentioned above, has major challenges in getting the time to do so. There are too many cases, too much complicated substance to go into for each employee. It's also a political question. It is clear that once a 2011 calculation has been made that 1,500 new positions were needed in municipal child protection, and we now have 1,100 new posts, there is at least a need for 400 more. In addition, we know that the need has probably increased, and the 2019 budget proposes 0 new posts for municipal child protection. That's not good enough. So the representative Harberg from the pulpit said it doesn't matter who owns the measure. Then I would like to refer to something Buffdir has written, as the Riksrevision has also stated, that the single purchase of a private emergency home involves a high risk in terms of safety, because the quality assurance cannot be good enough in such a short time. It has a context, because it is not possible to exercise the good control that the representative Harberg referred to, when you have so little time and you have to buy private alternatives. For 2018 it is estimated that we will get into about 400 single purchases. There are 400 single purchases of accommodation in institutions, emergency shelters and other forms. The ideal actors are squandered through this system – they do not have the opportunity to be ready to offer children such a device as some large commercial players have. That is why this is a political issue, a political responsibility to dimension child protection services to a good public offer, so that all children get the help they need, even when it comes to emergency placement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e545	Of course, all of us can be involved in the fact that child protection prevention is the most important aspect of child protection. Good prevention in the broadest sense makes children, the family and the community better equipped to master everyday life in a good way. When one comes to a situation where emergency measures need to be introduced, it becomes so much more serious for those in debt, and it often costs a lot of resources, not least when it comes to the use of child protection professionals in both municipalities and otherwise. Child-restraints in municipalities must therefore be freed of time to be able to work preventively. But I've been talking to a child-rescue service far away in the West, which has experienced, when they were going to be in emergency, to use two of their agents to follow a child to a completely different part of the country. The child had to be there for one day, and then they had to follow it to a completely different part of the country again the next day. And it goes without saying that if you have to do this, it's not that easy to set aside a lot of time to do preventive child protection work in your home municipality. For this reason, the National Audit Office’s examination of the Childhood, Youth and Family Status is an obligation to assist in emergency child-rescue placements, and its recommendations, so important, of course, first and foremost to ensure that emergency positions are maintained, but also to enable local child-rescue services to be provided with resources to carry out preventive work. Emergency preparedness has us both when it comes to fire, police, psychiatry, somatics and everything possible. And we've built up an apparatus geographically spread across the country, even if it doesn't burn all the time. In this report on emergency services in the field of child protection, the Riksrevision characterises the failure as serious, and now at the bottom of this debate, I hope that the Council of State really sees this seriously, and that it will follow the recommendations made by the Riksrevision here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e556	The council said in a line change that there was a strong growth in child protection matters. If that's the case, we have to analyse and figure out: is there a growth in child protection matters that concerns a cross-section of the population, or are there any special groups? We need to know that in order to know what means we're going to put in. I can mention that I was looking a little bit closely at recriminals, repeaters in the crime scene and young people in Oslo to see if there is a youth problem we have, or if there is a possible integration problem, if there is a much, much larger proportion of repeaters among young people with immigrant parents. I would also like to ask the Council of State in this case: is it a cross-section of the population, at least in the large areas and in large cities, which has a growth in child protection issues, or is it e.g. –I know from the courts – a much stronger growth and a much larger proportion of child protection cases where there are immigrant families or minority families? The reason why I'm asking is that if that's the case, we have to look at the integration work. Then there is also an integration problem, and not just a general family problem, when it comes to child protection issues. I think it might be interesting if the council could say that no, it's a cross-section of the population and has nothing to do with any groups, or that it has something to do with special groups and their background. Then we also know that we need to put in place other instruments and maybe a different build-up of the competence and knowledge of child protection than it would be if it were a cross-section of the population. It would be interesting if the Council of State could give some views on this particular topic, so that we are familiar with what means can be put into the best interests of the children. Because that's the best thing for children we have to do, not the wishes of parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e567	The National Audit Office has done an important and proper job when examining Bufetat’s obligation to provide assistance in emergency child protection. It is good that the Control and Constitutional Committee has been consulted on this matter, because valuable input from stakeholders in the industry on how they experience things urgently in the field of child protection. Together with the studies, some challenges can be identified, and many of these challenges could have been solved if the recruitment of emergency homes had been better. That is why I am pleased that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality is signaling that priority should be given to the efforts to get more emergency homes. Child protection competences are also very important, and more people are involved in the hearing — interpersonal competences and also skills to know what is needed in matters. Therefore, it is important that we also look at the competence and the kind of education we provide in the area of child protection. Children who, for various reasons, need to be placed outside the home need a variety of offers. That is why it scares me that the majority of the committee is calling for the removal of offers to vulnerable children who are not owned by state or non-profit institutions. It's a little bit too much about ideology and a little bit too little about taking care of the individual human being. We need variation in offers across the country, in the north and in the south, and very many children in the north who live in the districts are often affected by having to move far when there is no offer nearby. The fact that you are not good enough to supervise these is not a good enough argument for me to remove these offers. Rather, more efforts should be made to ensure the quality of all who provide services in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e576	I want to thank you for a very good debate. It's very interesting to hear many of the good contributions from the committee. To the question from the representative Hagen, whether we see things coming from a cross-section of the population: we're probably seeing an increase in child protection issues in families with immigrant backgrounds. That's why we've also been concerned that we have a child protection that's good enough to understand cultural differences. It's primarily about competence, and we're working a lot on increasing the competence of child-restraint workers on different cultural inequalities. Many families with immigrant backgrounds are afraid when Norwegian child protection comes to help. Dialogue and cooperation are difficult, even when we are talking about relief measures, because we hear that Norwegian child protection comes and takes their child. That's why we have to work a lot in the immigrant population too, understanding that child protection is there first and foremost to help. We get a lot of criticism from, among other things. foreign actors and from the media, including abroad, for Norway to have too tough a child policy. I'm proud that Norway places children's rights as high as adults. We're still going to do that. For example, in Norway we have: zero tolerance of client violence. For many, it's hard to accept, but we're going to stick to our line. Our child protection work is, in my opinion, among the foremost in the world because we put it to protect the child so high. I understand that it feels terrible for parents who are being taken away from their child. What we also see now is that our child-restraint staff are being subjected to heat, to threats against their own family, against their own children. We are concerned that child-restraint workers, in addition to being in the difficult job, are able to cope with the heat. That is why I am very pleased that the government and the Minister of Justice have now worked out proposals – they were sent to the hearing yesterday, it was well – on how to better protect and protect our employees in child protection, who are doing a job on behalf of our welfare society, which is to protect the children, and which is to ensure that no children in Norway are subjected to violence, abuse or carelessness. We need to move in early with prevention and relief measures, and we need to work well with the family, including parents with migrant backgrounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e589	I note that the debate largely deals with far more than emergency placements in child protection. I understand that it is tempting to discuss child protection as such – it is an important field. I am pleased that both the representative Hagen and the council took up what I did not get in my main post, namely the point where the committee has dared to go beyond the report itself and comment on the use of the family. It's a very important grip, there are several municipalities that have systematically tried, and have got very good results from it. Then it is important to continue to pay attention to prevention, early intervention and family protection, which has also been discussed by many. We just have to remember that in the case of emergency placements in child protection, there's not always a story in front of it. It was mentioned here by the representative Knag Fylkesnes everything that had been done in advance, and the emergency position was the last resort. No, that's sometimes the first contact. These are many different situations, and there are demanding situations. Then I live very well with principle and ideal disagreement about the use of private or not. But first to the representative Supreme Court, who said that Harberg said it was no matter who owned it. No, I said, ‘All municipal services present at the hearing also concluded that it was completely indifferent who owns and operates the offer.’ So they are the ones in the municipalities who have to make sure that there is an offer. They say it doesn't matter, and I think it's important to listen to them. So a comment: I was a little in doubt about whether the representative Torgair Knag Fylkesnes and I had read the same report when he says that the core problem in this case is the purchase of private services. No, the core problem is a different understanding of the obligation to provide assistance and how to follow it up. That's the thing, just so it's fixed. In addition, both shelters and foster homes are private providers in this service offer – we must not forget that. But initially, I think it's good that there's a lot of consensus about the main issues. We have to put in place a diversity and a volume that makes that when the emergency situations occur, we have an offer for the children who need it. That's good. The Council of State has clearly established that they are following up. When it comes to the recruitment of foster homes and shelters, it's up to each of us as private individuals to report to us for service, but we can also do that in the prevention work in the community around us. I would like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e609	First, a few comments on the article by the case-speaker Harberg. It would surprise me if the representative did not agree that all emergency positions in the Child Protection Service have had a broken history. I think everyone can be a few. Whether there has been a history in child protection or not is another question, but that it has had a history that has been broken, which has led one to come in such a situation that one has to find an emergency position, I think everyone can be a few. So I did not say that the problem is the purchase of private services. I said simple purchases of private services, and that's something that is really highlighted in the report as a big problem, because you have problems with proper quality assurance of these services. Then there is the big question: when one gets two hours to sort out in an emergency position, do those who take on this responsibility, emergency shelters and institutions that are approved for and adapt to emergency positions? We asked questions about it in the hearing, and they said that sometimes there isn't one. It says something about yourself when you have such a bad time to predict this. Do they have staff with good competence in crisis management and experience with it? In many cases not. It should be done in two hours — when there is a baby or one with a minority background who needs help all of a sudden. The impression one has left after reading the report is that it is all too often that a coughing up of places in institutions that are actually too long-term measures, where staff have little training and training in emergency situations. It is also pointed out by the hearing authorities, whether private or non-profit or public, that the form of short-term single-buying access to these issues is a major problem, and it is also highlighted by Bufdir himself that a problem arises in providing services that are actually defending the child. When the government has proven that it has added to the purchase of private child protection services, more short-term single purchases, it is obvious that it is not driven by the child’s concerns. It's driven by completely different mechanisms, and it's like the criticism from SV's debt. When it comes to interpretation, I emphasize it emphatically in my post, and the reason why there are different interpretations is that there is pressure on resources and competences in child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e622	I thanked the debate in the understanding that now it was the end, but I got such a clear challenge that I had to answer it. Yes, of course, it's a history and a tragic situation for the child and the family standing in the middle of it. It will be exciting to read the minutes afterwards, but I got enough understanding that there was a completely different history the representative mentioned in his post. So to the point that it is a single purchase that is the problem: now I almost think we agree, the representative Knag Fylkesnes and I, because single purchases that are not – in advance – picked out and approved, will of course be a significant risk. But it is possible to have a reserve with approved, quality assured offers – also from ideals and other private ones – as a user when he is unable to fill it out of his own quota under state control. And that's our point in this case, that we don't have to rule out what's there, like the solution that can make sure that the individual child gets a good location. So maybe we can gather about it – and thus get more children into good places.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e631	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e637	I also thought that I would have the last word in this debate! I think we're at the heart of a consensus here, because of course it's interpretation of some of the questions about the law, about how a user requires assistance and stuff, and then it's this with single purchases, which is one of the big problems. I believe that as long as you have long-term contracts – with private, with ideal – or that you solve this in public terms, it is much better, because then you can plan, then you have an additional resource that you can use. For SV, there is a point that this should be driven by local authorities – or by ideals – because we believe that this should not be subject to commercial operations, but it is another matter. But in these questions, it's much better if you have a long-term perspective, and that's what I think is an important aspect of the National Audit Office's report.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e648	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e664	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e673	There is reason to believe that the precisely agreed speaking time allocation is not being used in full, but I think it is right anyway as the case rapporteur to make a few comments on a document where there is a great deal of consensus. I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Firstly, we see and have no comment that the state's work on CO 2 management is not reported until 2019. Nor do we comment that seven of the nine reports mentioned do not need to be followed up, although we point out that both in terms of exploiting the research structure of Svalbard, and in terms of electronic exchange of information in the health and care sector, there is reason to follow those matters further. Then there are two things to follow further. One is the internal control of acquisitions in the state road system, Document 3:4 for 2014-2015, which we agree with. But I would like to mention in particular the issue of child poverty, which is Document 3:11 for 2013–2014. It was also a theme of yesterday's budget debate here in Stortinget. When we see that evolution from 2013 to 2016 is an increase from 8.6 pst. to 10.3 pst. Of children living in families with persistently low incomes, we can say that we as a welfare society have failed. We are therefore pleased that the Riksrevision will follow that case further. It's important that they do. I would also like to stress that it is not the task of this committee to point out actions in the future, but that it is important that both the government – represented by several departments – and the Scientific Committees of the Grand Duchy follow closely the development that in a country that has better conditions than most, we see that more and more people live in persistent poverty. As a society, we have a responsibility to take care of that. I'm glad the Riksrevision wants to follow it on. Of course, I encourage the government, but also the trade unions at Stortinget to follow closely on that matter in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e687	In 2014, the National Audit Office presented its study on the work against child poverty. It shows, among other things: that many municipalities work too little to allow low-income families to participate socially, and that the state effort to reduce the impact of poverty among children and young people was not good enough. Work against child poverty is an important matter for the government. We are working to increase social mobility by including more people in the labour market and reducing the risk of living conditions challenges being inherited. The increase in children living under persistent low incomes is seen in families with immigrant backgrounds. This is a consequence of Norway’s policy on immigration and integration, but it does not mean that we should not make an effort to ensure that those children have equal opportunities for good growth conditions, to be part of our communities — and to ensure that those children have good opportunities. Children growing up in low-income families must have the same opportunities to create their own future. Therefore, the government’s strategy for children living in poverty is aimed at preventing child poverty from being inherited and at mitigating the negative consequences of growing up under persistent low incomes. The strategy has helped to achieve the objectives of mitigating the negative consequences of growing up in low-income families and preventing child poverty from inheriting. There is a need for continued strong efforts in this area. This is a high priority for the government, and the Ministry now assesses how the work will be organised further. However, the measures in the strategy have largely continued, and in addition, the government has taken a number of measures to strengthen its efforts further. Over several years, the government has strengthened the national grant scheme against child poverty. It shall contribute to giving all children the opportunity to participate in a leisure activity, that all children can be part of our community and not stand outside and watch their friends go to football training or at the woodpecker. We have increased the allocation of family protection, for parental support. We have increased the appropriations for health care, school health services, child protection, drug and psychiatry care and work against violence and abuse. This government has introduced reasonable nursery places for low-income families and a national system of free core time in kindergarten for all children in low-income families, from the child is three years old. We have made sure that young people in low-income families get more in school scholarships and have started a trial project with free part-time space in the SFO. In our budget proposal for 2019, the government provided a significant boost to the efforts directed at children growing up in low-income families, and this is now further strengthened by the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party. This Agreement shall ensure, inter alia, that: increase in the amount of child benefit and in the lump-sum benefit. But the most important thing we can do is make sure that parents get into work. The only way to make sure that children in long-term low-income families actually get a better working life is for Mom and Dad to come to work. Unfortunately, we see that many of the immigrant mothers are not working. There we are looking at what measures we are going to take to ensure that immigrant mothers get into work. What's preventing it? Is it difficult to get into the Norwegian labour market and get a job, or is it due to other challenges? We need to know more about this in order to put in place the right measures, because we can increase the appropriations. We can continue to increase the appropriations to solve these problems in the short term, but what really will help in the long term is that parents get to work. This has a very high priority for the government, because it's just the way we can reduce the number of children living in sustainable low-income families.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e712	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e728	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e737	This case is about foreigners who do not meet the conditions for entry or departure from Norway, and who for that reason are held back by the police here in the country. The home that has been used in such cases now has our foreign laws and police laws, and the government and several hearing authorities believe there is a need to clarify the basis for such detention. There is a joint committee that supports this. It is now solved by getting our own paragraph in the Foreign Law. This means that the police are allowed to detain or repatriate a foreigner when they do not cooperate in general foreign controls. The normal time to hold down is four hours, but in a special case up to six hours, to tell if the item should be deleted or deleted. In specific cases where there is a risk of evasion, i.e. an avoidance risk, a police lawyer may extend detention for up to 24 hours. It is a joint committee that supports the proposal for an exemption from this 24-hour rule. So we don't want children and families to be covered by this. In addition, there are some minor changes — or incurrencies, which are so finely called — in several paragraphs of the Foreign Law, which are being changed. Then there's an SV clarification in a comment, where one says that when the police now get such a home to bring in in connection with foreign controls, it's important that this possibility is not exploited in a discriminatory way, but only to clarify a person's identity or whether it's legal suspension. Of course, such clarification could probably have been supported by many people — one of whom, of course, waits for the police to comply with the laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e746	We are currently examining changes to the Foreign Affairs Act, and SV agrees with this setting. Of course, we need those who are legally resident in Norway to be in Norway, those who are not legally present, to be managed differently. However, when I take the floor now, it is because when the police now receive new instructions for foreign controls, we must follow closely how they enforce it. This is in line with the comment we have. I'll just elaborate on it a little bit. Norway has been criticised by the UN Committee on Human Rights for the way we conduct foreign controls. As early as April of this year, the UN Human Rights Committee considered that Norway was driving so-called ethnic profiling through foreign controls. This is in sync with a report from the Anti-racist Center, where it appears that over 12 pst. of those born with one or two foreign parents, the police experience a regular stoppage. In the absence of concrete knowledge of the persons or other specific criteria, it appears that the only criterion for identity control is the appearance of the police. That's exactly the pattern of identity control based on appearance that's made the United Nations react. It is quite right that the proposal we are presenting today is in line with international human rights rules, but if it skips to become ethnical profiling in foreign controls, it will violate various international and national rules on discrimination. The police themselves say that, in order to avoid this, they should log all foreign controls in order to be able to look at the pattern and possibly to correct themselves. In a great deal of work done by Bergen's Official Journal, which contacted all the police departments in the country, it was found that the police do not log foreign controls. So the Norwegian police do not have an overview of either the number, the reason or whether people have been stopped solely on the basis of appearance. As a conclusion, we support this position, but we will also indicate – and I do now – that the way in which the police conduct foreign controls will be followed closely. And we'll take the matter further in Stortinget if we see that this further jumps over to that one can call ethnic profiling.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e763	We must have control of our borders, and we must have control of who is in the country. The use of coercive agents is sometimes absolutely necessary for the control to be effective. Of course, it cannot be that those who do not meet the entry conditions nevertheless let in because we lack effective means or procedures to hold them and send them out. Border control and foreign controls are also important to prevent and combat crime. Moreover, an effective control system practice could quickly become known and have a preventive effect. I note the member of the Committee from SV, who addresses the issue of general foreign controls and perceived discrimination. Let me first say that I understand that this type of inspection can sometimes be stressful. This is especially true if someone experiences frequent checks. However, I can assure you that the police have a high level of awareness about this. Discrimination shall not occur. It is important for the police to maintain a good relationship of trust with the population. The Directorate of Police has developed its own guidelines for the implementation of foreign controls, including: with a view to avoiding discrimination in checks. Let me also stress that it is not possible to stop someone alone for the reason that they look foreign or speak a different language than Norwegian. It is explicitly clear from the legal provision on general foreign controls that the time, location and situation must give cause for control. However, the proposal under discussion today does not change that. Foreign controls are an important contribution to supporting our obligations under the Schengen acquis as well as to ensuring control of the entry and residence of foreigners. I am very pleased that the proposals were well received in the hearing of many bodies, and that an overall committee was behind the proposal in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e772	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e777	In my main post, I mentioned the concern and report of the UN Human Rights Committee, which came on 5 April 2018, complaining that Norway conducts so-called ethnic profiling in police foreign controls. I have not been given the opportunity to ask the Minister of Justice about this in the main hall, but I am using the opportunity to do so now. What is the Minister of Justice's comment on that criticism, and in what way has the Minister of Justice responded back to the UN at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e782	It's natural to take this criticism with you to the Police Directorate. As I mentioned, the Police Directorate has taken this seriously and developed guidelines. The important thing for me is to establish that the law is to be followed. It is time, location and situation that should lie at stake. It's not ethnic profiling. The answer and its follow-up must be in cooperation with the Police Directorate, how they have dealt with that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e789	The Minister of Justice said in his main speech that there is no occasion for the police to stop people just based on appearance as their own criterion. Yet this happens. A report from the Anti-racist Centres shows this, and the study from the Official Journal of Bergen also shows this. What is the Minister of Justice's comment that the police are not following the instructions of the police at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e794	I have no reason to say that the police are not following it, based on the investigations conducted by the media and the anti-racist centers. What you have access to, and what you need to consider, is to base time, location and situation on making a check. That means that if you're in areas or in places where there's an overrepresentation of foreigners, that might be a reason. But there are no foreigners in themselves that should be reason for that. There shall be time, location and situation. If the police have experience in these areas, foreigners with illegal residence permits can often be found, it is natural that the police use that experience to return to that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e799	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e817	Additional expenditure has been incurred since Prop. 108 S for 2017-2018 was submitted on 22 June, a proposal from the Ministry of Justice and Defence on the extinguishment of forest fires. On this background the government chose to draw the proposition. The need for appropriations has been incorporated as part of proposals for amending the capped allocation. 451, item 21 of Prop. 2 S. Handling of forest fires is a municipal responsibility. However, important State reinforcement resources, such as Civil Defense and Forest Fire Helicopters, contribute significantly to this work. Long-lasting drought in spring and summer led to extreme forest fires and very many fires and therefore also an extra effort and more resource use than is usual. There has therefore been a need for additional appropriations, and the government proposes to grant an additional 84.1 million. kr to this in the latter proposition. The committee is united in this matter, and there have been no comments beyond what has been promoted together, so I don't think I'm going to spend more time on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e826	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e842	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e851	The Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights, NIM, was established by the Stortinget in 2015 and shall be an independent body for the protection of human rights in Norway. The annual report we are discussing here today points to important human rights challenges in Norway. A central part of NIM’s work is on how human rights are implemented nationally, and the institution is concerned with the impact of human rights on other rules and how international complaints bodies assess cases against Norway. A key task for NIM is also to report on the human rights situation in Norway. The developments outlined in the Annual Report 2017 by NIM are a consolidation of the monitoring they have carried out during the year, explaining their role and implementation of human rights in Norway and identifying important developments in the year that has passed. When NIM was established in 2015, it was a central objective that Norway should have so-called ‘A’ status. The Committee is pleased that NIM achieved such status in 2017, including: provides a specific access to the UN system. NIM shall also participate in international cooperation to promote and protect human rights, and the Committee is pleased that the institution has developed cooperation with other national institutions and the international network of national institutions in 2017. The mandate of the NIM is broad and gives a responsibility to ensure an overall perspective on human rights. The Annual Communication thus covers several different themes and also makes clear recommendations on how Norwegian authorities should follow up the observations made by NIM in 2017. The Justice Committee also asked the Ministry of Justice and Defence to assess the annual report. We are pleased that the department has made a thorough review of all the recommendations and also refers to the department's letter of reply. However, although the Minister of Justice has assessed all the proposals, the Committee believes, as in the last year's examination of the annual report, that it is also important for the Ministry to come back again with how they have followed up these recommendations. The Annual Communication also makes many recommendations, and NIM has highlighted in particular three challenges that they consider to be important to focus on in the future. There is violence in close relationships, mental illness in prison, and protection against hateful expressions. The Committee agrees that there are challenges in these areas. The Committee also agrees with NIM that ensuring the situation of the mentally ill in prison is an important area that deserves attention. The Committee has several issues on this topic for consideration. We know that many of the prisoners have challenges and mental disorders, but they also have the same patient rights as the general population. It is a demanding group, but the Committee emphasises that they also deserve proper treatment, even if it is challenging to find good solutions. I expect the committee's representatives to explain their comments and proposals themselves, but I would just like to stress that the members of the government parties are pleased that the government's aim is to strengthen the offer to prisoners of mental illness, and has also prioritised this in the budget. NIM also notes that violence in close relationships is a serious problem. Like NIM, the Committee agrees that this is a serious social problem, it is a serious crime, and it has great consequences for those affected and their relatives. I am pleased that the government's efforts in this area are organised through cross-departmental action plans, both to prevent, protect, help and treat, and that criminal prosecution is a topic. I point out that the action plan that the government had from 2014 to 2017 has now expired. It's only been a year. It contained 45 measures that we know are now being taken into account. That status report provides the basis for further work to be assessed by the government. Hateful statements are also important to address, and NIM points to the fight against hateful expressions as an area within Norway’s human rights obligations requiring action. The Committee agrees that this is important, and the government parties also refer to the strategy against hateful expressions, which is the first strategy ever put forward by a government. I would like to thank the Committee on Work and also the NIM for an important annual report.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e879	I want to start by thanking the case manager for a good post and for a good job. I'm glad we got to deal with things now and not in ours, so that we could bring the reviews to the department. The work of mentally ill people must clearly be intensified. This committee is very familiar with this problem, and NIM, as we simplify it to make it simple, is also raising this as a problem. I think that the critical budgetary situation that prisons in Norway have been facing over the last five years has worsened the situation of mentally ill prisoners in Norway. NIM also points out that the situation of insertion in general is demanding. The use of isolation has been criticised by both the Norwegian National Human Rights Institute and the Civilombodsman, and for the Labour Party, it is not good enough that one in this setting seems to be busy. We think the government doesn't do enough to meet these challenges. I would like to point out that the government must be commended for proposing a new Community department in Ila. That's good, but that's not enough to solve the challenges we, and also NIM, point to. Work against power in close relationships must also be intensified. We will discuss it later today during the Petter Eide interpellation debate, but here too it is a main problem that there is a lack of sufficient resources in the police districts and a new action plan. I think it is critical that the government has not yet come up with a new action plan after the previous one went out, which is also pointed out by the Annual Report. I would like to refer to the recommendation that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are behind in the setting, where we again propose a new action plan. We stress that he should be a cross-sectoral, economic and timely commitment and that he should specifically reflect the needs of vulnerable groups. Here I will also refer to the recording that has come from NIM, but also from LDO, among other things. in the Committee's budget statement, that it is important that that action plan also covers the Sami part of our population. The Workers' Party has been a driver to intensify the work against hateful expressions. In order to strengthen that work, one must also strengthen those who are involved in it in the country, namely those who work in the police and in the police districts. FRI, the Association for Gender and Sexual Diversity, has recorded with us in the Committee, among others. during the budgetary hearing, but also in the past, that each police district should have a responsible person working with hateful expressions or crime. The Labour Party is in complete agreement. There is too much variation in the competence around the district and capacity needs to be built up. Then I will mention a theme that the case spokesman did not address, but that NIM has addressed both in the annual report and in the meeting of the Justice Committee. It's about our courts. Independent and effective courts are a central authority for a well-functioning judicial State. And it's the state that's responsible for ensuring that the courts have sufficient resources to settle cases within reasonable time. A joint committee today proposes a proposal for a decision asking the government to ensure that the courts are organised and financed in a way that takes care of the requirements of the Constitution and the EMK to have their cases settled before the Court within a reasonable time. The Labour Party also supports the NIM's recommendation that an overview and a coordinated follow-up should be ensured from the respective Ministry of Norway's recommendations from the international human rights monitoring bodies. A Joint Committee also requests that the government return to the Storting with a review of the recommendations made in the 2017 Annual Report and the follow-up. I finally take up the minority proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e896	The representative of Lene Vågslid has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e901	First, I would like to thank NIM for a thorough annual report, in which they highlight three challenges that it will be important to focus on in the future: violence in close relationships, mental illness in prison and protection against hateful expressions. Work on improving the conditions for mental illness in prisons is very important. The Central Party will point out that the Justice Committee is now considering a matter of precisely limiting isolation and improving the situation of serious mentally ill prisoners, where the Centre Party will make proposals. I have also addressed that theme in an interpellation in the previous session. Norwegian prisoners have the same patient rights as outside prison, but today we are unable to treat them well enough. The budgetary situation is serious for criminal law. As early as 2017, Deputy Regional Director of the Criminal Office of the West Region said: ‘We are down to a level where we can maintain safety to the extent’. The top management said, ‘The situation is almost unmanageable’. Low crewing threatens the safety of those at work and the follow-up of prisoners. On a general basis, rehabilitation in Norwegian prisons is now minimal, and it is particularly serious for those who also suffer from a mental illness. Prisoners are more often isolated than necessary, or subject to other coercion, and lack of medical services, often because there is no capacity to avoid or follow them up in the healthcare system. Unfortunately, it has not improved since 2017. In the state budget for 2019, the criminal justice cuts continue. The government should take immediate action to improve the situation of mentally ill people in prison, including stopping the ABE cuts and relieving criminal services, both for the mentally ill and for the prisoners in general. We need to stop the development of criminal justice where we are unable to uphold fundamental human rights for prisoners. NIM’s observations on violence and sexual abuse in close relationships are also serious. It is estimated that about 150 000 people are exposed to violence in close relationships each year. 8-14 pst. by the female population, violence from partners has occurred and one in 10 16-17-year-olds reports on the experience of violence from the bosses. The Central Party has repeatedly made proposals in Stortinget to strengthen the fight against violence in close relations and sexual abuse. We believe that the government should have promoted a new action plan as it expired in 2017. An action plan must be binding and adequately funded if it is to have the desired effect. Freedom of expression is strong in Norway and will continue to do so. There must be a high threshold for intervention in freedom of expression, but there is an important balance between freedom of expression and the right of individuals to protection against hateful expressions. The Criminal Code and the Discrimination Act restrict freedom of expression, and statements made to promote hatred, persecution or contempt for others, we need to combat. Hateful statements are suitable for creating fear among both individuals and entire minorities, and the Center Party stands in the fight against it. Finally, I would like to address the fact that the Central Party is seriously concerned about the courts. Dispute resolution and prosecution are central to the criminal system and the judicial system. Everyone has an obligation to bring his case before the Court of Justice. It is absolutely essential in the state of law in Norway that we be able to handle criminal cases safely and within a reasonable time. The Courts now face major economic challenges. Legal time limits for proceedings are not observed in the majority of our courts. The courts may not save time and money to go on chords with procedural requirements in individual cases. Therefore, it is now necessary in several courts to cut down in judicial positions in order to meet the budgetary framework. The government needs to ensure, as soon as possible, that the courts are sufficiently financed to be able to resolve matters safely, efficiently and within legal time limits, in order to ensure that judicial proceedings in Norway continue to be in line with human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e927	The human rights situation in Norway is quite good. I have been so lucky to visit approx. 100 countries in the world, and I can tell you that it's pretty much worse to anywhere else. But maybe that's why we need solid and good institutions – and we need to make sure it's still like that. Fortunately, we also have a civil society in Norway that is looking after and watchful for the good human rights situation in Norway. The national human rights institution of Norway, NIM, shall just be one of the institutions to be vigilant for the situation of human rights. They shall ensure that this standard is respected. They shall ensure that the human rights situation in Norway is in line with the Norwegian legislation, but also in line with the international obligations, the Convention obligations, given by both the UN and the EMC, the European Convention on Human Rights. Human rights are defined in UN Conventions and in the Council of Europe Conventions. They act as a kind of constitution for Norway. So Norwegian law cannot be made without it being in line with this law. That's what NIM is set to look out for. This means that NIM’s work has both an important national role to play in ensuring that this works well in Norway, and is also important internationally, because Norway has a role model here, so to speak. They will show the world that even a Champion of Human Rights, as Norway is, is to meet a high standard around this. NIM has delivered a number of recommendations that we have been asked to look at. It can be seen as a minimum action to send the report back to the government to ask them to assess how they do this. The majority has an independent responsibility, given by the Constitution, to ensure that the position of human rights in Norway is good. The size can pick out some of the things that NIM is most concerned about, and make completely concrete decisions. That is precisely what we have done in the proposal for Decision III, on violence in close relations. We've gone through all of what NIM has written. So we've said that well, much is important, but this is actually the most important thing to look at. Again, a small international outlook: although the position of human rights in Norway is largely better than in all, most countries, Norway in the area of violence is in close relations and raped not so much, very different from the rest of the world. This is a major problem in Norway, just as it is largely in Europe and in other parts of the world — of course not as bad as in parts of Africa and Asia. That's exactly why we have taken this out as a very specific area and said that here it is not enough that the Storting just sends it back to the government and asks the government to find out how they can handle it. In the proposal for a decision, the majority says that we should do this in particular, and ask the government to be extra focused in this area, just to give the political signal that in this area it is more serious than in all the other areas, and that in this area, the human rights situation in Norway is not as good – or is approximate as it is in the rest of the world. I'm glad we're receiving treatment for NIM's annual report. This is currently a quite new tradition in Norway. I think that the times we have done so far we have been a little too defensive in this work. We have largely sent it back to the government, without proper processing of the content of this in the storeroom. It's a little better this year than it was last year. I hope that next year we will go even further into some areas, and perhaps also make very specific decisions, in order to exercise the responsibilities of the Grand Duchy in relation to human rights in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e940	Norway’s national human rights institution has a key role to play in promoting and protecting human rights in Norway. Since NIM was established by law in 2015, the institution has been a strong professional player and a clear voice in this important work. The Committee is pleased that in 2017, NIM achieved so-called ‘A’ status under the principles of the United Nations Paris system. It is also gratifying that Gáldu – the centre of competence for indigenous rights – became an integral part of NIM in the same year. Both parts will strengthen the institution in its further work. NIM offers advice and recommendations to the Ministry and Government in various ways. NIM has issued several reports on specific themes. NIM also provides regular consultation opinions, all of which are assessed by the responsible department. I mention that, through meetings, there is also a good dialogue between NIM and various actors, including the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The Councils and recommendations of NIM are generally important and welcome input when the ministries and the government decide what should be done in different areas of activity. NIM has also issued a thorough annual report for 2017 with a number of useful recommendations to the ministries and the government. In the opinion, the Judicial Committee shall in particular promote three areas from the Annual Report, all of which relate to the responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice and Defence: violence in close relations, mental illness in prison and protection against hateful expressions. I agree that these are three very important issues. Like the Committee members from the Right and the Advance Party, I would like to point out that the government is already doing a lot of important work in these areas. As regards the courts referred to in the Committee's recommendation for Decision II, I agree that independent and effective courts are key prerequisites for a well-functioning rule of law. The Government therefore set up the Court of Justice Commission on 11 August 2017. The Commission has been asked to examine how the courts should be organised in order to meet the expectations of efficiency, quality and independence. A basic starting point and the premise for the Commission’s creation was precisely to ensure that the courts were also able to settle citizens’ cases in a timely manner. I also mention that the Department is working on changes in both civil and criminal proceedings to facilitate more effective judicial procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e952	It's going to be a string change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e957	NIM calls for an action plan against selected in close relationships. The previous action plan went out in 2017 – we are soon to be at the end of 2018. I wonder if the Council of State can say anything more about when the government intends to put forward such an action plan, whether it will be economically and time-consuming, and whether it will take on board the clear notion that an action plan must also focus clearly on the Sami population.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e962	I agree that this is a very, very important area, and that is also a priority area. The final report of the action plan to which the representative refers, on violence in close relations, was published in November 2018 and – well, we have come out so far in December. It is obvious that the final report will be assessed, and we will decide how to follow it up. That doesn't mean we're going to put it in a drawer, that means we're going to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e968	I thank you for the answer, but that one question I did not get an answer to. Increasingly, the focus has been on challenges related to the Sami population. Someone has suggested that it should be a separate action plan. We challenge both NIM and LDO on the question of whether the most important thing is that it becomes part of a general action plan. Can the council say anything about what he thinks about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e973	These are just the questions that it is natural to consider now, whether there is a need for a specific measure in the case of the Sami population, or whether it is natural to integrate it into the rest of the work – and in the other work that the Ministry of Justice is doing on an ongoing basis, because I think it is important to remember that the Ministry of Justice has a number of activities that go on violence in close relations, and it is simply at the point of this year that there are just such issues we need to assess. But let me assure the representative that the Sami population will be and is a central part of the assessment we are making.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e978	Thanks for the answer. NIM is also clear on the need to ensure an overview and a coordinated follow-up from the individual departments of the international monitoring bodies’ recommendation to Norway on human rights. I didn't hear anything in the State Council's article about what the State Council meant about that. Here you suggest to SV and the Workers' Party that in the setting, so my question to the Council of State is if it's not a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e983	My starting point is that I think it's right to follow the sector principle here, that is. that it is the individual department which assesses and reports back to Stortinget. Now this isn't a very principleal assessment, but it's an appropriate way to organize work with different ministries in a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e988	One last line to Lene Vågslid – and then there are others who have also asked for lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e993	I'm just trying – as long as it goes! Thanks for the answer. Sectoral principle is an answer. But I'm wondering, what does the Council of State think about is the worst thing that can happen if a man did what we suggested, to get an overview and a coordinated follow-up, as NIM recommends?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e998	This is not a question of the worst that could happen – I don't think anything bad would happen. However, there is more appropriate way to organise time, forces and resources and to ensure that the Council of State, which is always constitutionally responsible, is also responsible for reporting back to international conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1003	A small follow-up to the latest replicating exercise: not only does Norway’s national human rights institution report on human rights in Norway, but a number of international institutions do so. The United Nations Committee on Human Rights, the United Nations Children's Committee, the United Nations Torture Committee and the Council of Europe Torture Committee also report regularly in Norway, not just annually, necessarily but regularly. However, only the report by NIM — i.e. the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights — is dealt with in the Stortinget. So my question to the Minister of Justice will be: can it be in any way appropriate that the reports of the international bodies associated with Norway, such as the Council of Europe and the United Nations, should also be submitted to the Storting for debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1008	It is true, as the representative says, that there are a number of reports that evaluate and assess different parts of not only the justice sector but very many sectors. All these reports are known, and all these reports are published from the Ministry as well, but it has not been appropriate to invite a debate every time a new report comes — perhaps not to gather everyone, because it is quite a work to do so. But we're completely open to discuss any of those things. This is often the case in the United Kingdom, with questions as well as interpellations related to those reports. I suppose that's a quite natural part of Storting's follow-up to how the government deals with international conventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1013	That's the line change. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 6 and 7 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1044	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1060	Life at work is about acts that violate Norwegian laws on pay and employment, social security, taxes and taxes, and are usually carried out in an organised manner. This is done by exploiting workers and/or carrying out work in a way that distorts competition and undermines our social structures. A characteristic feature of labour crime is the multi-crime element, and it is characterised by tax and tax crime, gross accounting and accounting offences, incorrect and deficient accounts, corruption, fraud, bankruptcy, money laundering, currency smuggling, trafficking in human beings, social security fraud, gross fraud, violation of the Foreign Affairs Act, the exchange of labour, prostitution and serious breaches of the Labour Environment Act, etc., etc. Work life crime is part of the paradigm shift we see in the world today. That is why this government has made a major effort to combat and prevent labour-life crime. The first action plan presented by the government came in 2015, and it was revised in 2017. Many of the measures in the action plan have been met. One of the points is the establishment of a-krim centre, and seven are established in Norway. In order to combat this type of crime, public cooperation between different institutions is absolutely essential. Police, tax authorities, Nav, the Labour Inspectorate and many other agencies need to work together to bring this about. It has been shown that there are some obstacles to good cooperation. Professional secrecy and sharing of information have challenged cooperation. This proposition is equivalent to that. Prop. 115 L, Changes to the Data Protection Act, facilitate more effective cooperation between public bodies. A new provision of Section 12(a) of the Data Protection Act is proposed which allows public authorities to provide each other with personal data when necessary to prevent, detect, prevent or sanction labour-life crime. The wording of the new legislative proposal is intended to ensure that all work done by the public against the crime of working life falls within the scope of the provision. Any public body working against this would be able to exchange personal data in line with the proposed provision. The amendment of the legislation will mean that an important obstacle to the effective fight against crime at work is now being removed. We will continue the fight against crime at work through a thorough follow-up to the action plan in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1075	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1091	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1100	I want to start by thanking the Committee for dealing with a matter that has been complicated and difficult. It's hard because there's a lot of opinions about the subject, and there's strong stories behind the different issues of substitution. It is complicated because the parties obviously have quite different understandings of the reality and the consequences of the proposal. To get a meaningful debate, I thought it might be nice to try to structure a little bit. Then I have to start with the very basic, namely that in Norway we have compensation rules that have been more or less unchanged all the way back to the Roman era. They apply regardless of what is in the law. There are principles that stand out well. In addition, we politicians have found it too good to spice our system with some specific compensation schemes in different fields. We have e.g. the system of compensation for victims of violence. We have patient damages. We have some special arrangements for different groups that have been particularly unfortunate in meeting with the public. In addition, we have the municipalities and the counties that have a bouquet of different schemes that are also practiced differently. At the bottom is the Grottinge’s legal compensation scheme, which is designed to trap those falling between two chairs and having no other compensation system to lean on. The sum of this is that we actually have a pretty good replacement system in Norway, but it also has some weaknesses. I think everyone in this room wants to fix some of those weaknesses, but it doesn't matter how you actually do it. Now we've seen examples, for example. in the media, on persons who have been lost by a municipality but are compensated differently based on the municipality in which they live. Then there are some things you can do with this. I've found three things that you theoretically could do. The first thing had to be to change some of today's state schemes, and that's perhaps what's in this slightly wretched proposal to investigate all state compensation schemes, etc. It's often a solution you lean on when you don't know where you want to go. It is an instrument that politicians often use when we want to solve something, but do not have a bearing on the solution. Then it's always okay to figure out, figure out and figure out. We can figure out until we get blue in the face. Here we've simply asked for an investigation that the Department of Merit says is not accurate enough. This scheme may be extended to a wide range of groups and cases, but it does not provide a good solution. Moreover, most of what can be investigated is already investigated. For example, the compensation for victims of violence was now investigated. The judicial compensation scheme was well investigated by Jens Stoltenberg's government, no later than 2013. The conclusion was clear: it should not be changed. Then you create a different system than what we have today. Therefore, we believe that changing existing state schemes will be a dead end. We like to camouflage ourselves behind the desire to investigate more and more, but the honest answer is that it won't solve anything. At least that won't solve the things we've been reading in the media. That's why we're voting against this, and then we're going to live with our intentions being questioned, etc. The second solution is to create completely new state schemes that essentially relieve the municipalities of liability. It is also a bad solution. There would be a typical easy-to-use solution in Norway, where there is always more money, and where all the country can take over is getting better. There's no automation in it. If the person who does not cause any damage is also responsible, we can actually risk making a worse solution. Then we're left with the third and last solution, which is the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, along with the Center Party, go ahead. It is to ensure that the municipalities are conscious of their responsibility, that they improve their systems, and not least improve their practice, so that we get a more unified practice. What we saw in, for example. Focus, was that when equal things gave different substitutes, it was bad. It can be corrected by common procedures. That is our solution and our proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1119	I'll start this article by referring to the NRK Focus Documentary, A Sister's Fight. This is a heartwarming story in which we learn to know a big sister who fights for equal treatment for her siblings, and for justice after experiencing the failure of child protection in Norway. This documenter points in particular to one important point, precisely that there are many different schemes for the upliftment of former child protection children who have experienced the failure of those who would look after them for a very vulnerable period in their lives. Where there is such a high risk of discrimination depending on where you live in the country, it points towards chance and great injustice to those affected. This will be done, for example. when we see that with today's arrangements there are both differences in the maximum amount of payments between municipalities, differences in the time periods for which the municipalities prove, and when it is possible to apply for upliftment or compensation. In addition, there are variations between municipalities as regards the curtailment of the amount paid if the applicant is also remunerated by others. The working party believes that this makes a weakness visible in today's system, which leads to different legal protection practices between municipalities and municipalities and from the time of the search. The casualty and injustice resulting from today's system has been mentioned on several occasions, including: by non-governmental organisations and individuals. The NRK Focus Document makes it clear that in 2017, all batches committed to review today’s legislation. For the government, Minister of Health Bent Höie spoke out. For the Workers' Party, Vice-Chairman Hadia Tajik spoke out clearly. We can now notice that the Right seems to have left the position, and many were probably surprised by the Minister for Children's and Gender Equality's response both in the Focus documenter and to the NRK on the network that this is primarily the responsibility of the municipalities. The Labour Party was therefore well pleased with the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the representatives of Bekkevold and Bollestad, who in a good way raise this serious issue and show the willingness to clean up. There is a high time for a comprehensive review of public upkeep and compensation schemes and for particular consideration of which groups are not currently covered by the schemes and now consider whether they should be included. We need to get an overview of the different municipal and county authorities' systems of uprooting and compensation, so that we can get an overview of any discrimination. In this room, we sometimes deal with things that directly interfere with the lives of individuals. In these matters, we shall be very conscious of our actions and decisions. This is such a case, and then it's not good enough to draw up recommendations and shift away from responsibility, as the majority seems to be doing here. With that, I address the proposals that the Workers' Party has made on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1134	The representative of Aasen-Svensrud then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1139	Every day, a child in Norway is subjected to violence and abuse. Many of these children live in families where child protection should have intervened a lot before. I have met many children who have said: Why did you not come before, this you knew? Many children out there have been failed by the public, and that was also one of the reasons why in 2016 the government put down a sample to look at situations where children were subjected to serious care failure, including death. The NOU that was delivered, which was called failure and betrayal, clearly showed that many have known, but no one has done anything. Not least it showed that no one had spoken to the children this matter. It shows that the public has failed many children. The Focus documenter has been shown that has given a face for this. I want to thank Mona Anita Espedal who, with his fight for his siblings, has stood up and given a face to many of these children. There have been stories that we can't even imagine, and it shows how important it is that once the child protection in a municipality has done a serious assault, the municipality in which this has happened must be conscious of its responsibility and give up to the children who have suffered an injustice. We have one thing to deal with here today where there are two proposals from the Christian People's Party. One is that we're going to have a review of the justice system, which is a system that the Storting has. When we look at the amounts that have been paid out, I think about what we could have done for those children if we had spent that money on something quite different than providing compensation – we could have helped them a lot before. Parties to the Government have chosen not to go into that proposal. One of the reasons is that this scheme was reviewed in 2013, and the Stoltenberg Government, with the Swedish Minister for Children and Gender Equality, concluded that this scheme worked well and that no other groups were required into that scheme. We know that the department is sitting and working on the follow-up to the victim compensation system. I believe that it is important that the government prioritises, and as soon as possible returns to the Storting with its follow-up. A unanimous increase has said that the government will follow it up to get a review of the entire system of compensation for victims of violence. So the question is, would suggestion 1 have helped Mona Anita Espedal? No, but you can help a lot of people who don’t get compensation in the municipality – that’s when the justice system is there to compensate and compensate for those who do not fall under other schemes. Proposal 2, from the Workers' Party, is to have a review of the municipal and county settlement systems to see if there are any problems. Yes, there's something this documentary has shown us, so there's a difference. We know that there are differences, and that will be as long as there are municipal and county councils. As I read the matter, it is only the SV who may have called for us to establish a national system. If we make a national arrangement, the municipalities can waive responsibility. That's not what we want, we want those who have failed to make up for themselves. Then we're left on the challenge. Well, that's the differences. For this reason, the government parties have made a proposal asking the government, together with the KS, to put in place the same guidelines, so that better treatment can be provided in municipalities. Being accused of relinquishing responsibility and being accused of both fraud and lies, I do not believe that this matter belongs to me. For government parties' proposals will help them, are much more concrete and can happen quickly – the government, together with KS, will now have equal guidelines in place, so that those who have been wronged will receive compensation from municipalities, and there will be no more guidelines than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1160	It is serious when children are betrayed by everyone. Where the parents fail to fulfil their responsibilities, the public shall intervene. When the safety net also fails, it is clear that the public must provide for those children. That's the background to the matter we're dealing with now, and I want to refer to the representative Horne's comments on the majority position, which I think was very good. In document 8:165 two proposals have been made. I think it's natural to go through those proposals separately. Proposal No. 1 to carry out an overall review of public upgrading schemes and to consider whether groups outside those schemes should be included. The proposers referred in the document to the judicial remedy system and to the compensation for victims of violence. The judicial compensation scheme was reviewed in 2013 by the government of Stoltenberg, and the conclusion was that it should be maintained as it was, and that it was not appropriate to make changes in principle and establish its own arrangements for specific groups. We're still at it, and we don't think it's good politics to spend resources on another review so soon afterwards. The justice system is currently not based on the demarcation of individual groups but is based on judgement and custom. Any nomination of the groups to be covered will not automatically provide for a better system, but may rather provide for a narrower system covering fewer than it currently does. That is what I believe the proposers want. There's no central party supporting it. Furthermore, I would like to stress that the proposal does not say anything about which groups you want a possible arrangement and delimitation to be included. This means that the proposal for a review opens up an exhaustive list of all types of groups, makes little sense and will lead to very extensive work. Furthermore, I said that the proposers mentioned the compensation for victims of violence in their proposal for a representative. As previous speakers have pointed out, compensation for victims of violence is now under way as a follow-up to NOU 2016:9 Fair and predictable – compensation for violence. That is why we believe that this point is also taken care of. In view of this, the Centre Party will not use resources for a new review, to which the proposal refers. I will go into proposal No. 2, which concerns the review of municipal and county schemes. It is our opinion that the purpose of the proposers here is to create a more equal system in all municipalities and counties. In the case, it is stated that in some municipalities compensation is paid if the municipality has made a mistake, while in other municipalities it is not. That's not true. I would like to remind you that all municipalities are covered by the general liability, and that when a municipality has made a mistake that has caused damage or though, it can trigger liability and compensation. In addition, each municipality and county may choose to set up compensation or uplift schemes. It may be done for a special type of case, for a permanent or short period of time. Examples of such cases may be where serious child-residence failures have been detected, where children have been subjected to violence and abuse, or may be related to child-restraint failures. Those schemes are not intended to be standardised and adapted to general issues. Therefore, it is natural that different practices may exist from municipality to municipality. It can be pointed out in individual cases. However, the centre party believes that there must be tolerance for different practices from municipality to municipality when we want a system in which the municipalities should have their own, voluntary arrangements in addition to the usual liability. There must also be an understanding that different facts in different cases may have an impact on the different payment of compensation. The central party believes that it belongs to the local self-government to set up these types of schemes and that there should not be a State task to intervene in the schemes. As has also been pointed out earlier, no one has proposed a state system with the conditions it would lead to. We believe, however, that guidance to municipalities on how best to have arrangements, if they choose to have it, can be useful. That is why, together with the government parties, we have put forward a proposal with the wish that there should be a recommendation on best practice for compensation and upliftment schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1183	SV and the undersigned are very much in agreement with the historical background given by the rapporteur and agree with parts of the description of the reasons why we have had this debate. So I'm not going to bring that up. I will not go through the various compensation schemes that exist, because it has been done before me. On the other hand, I would like to address the political signals given by the handling of this matter. What is perhaps the most worrying thing is that the majority of people now want to adopt is that we have to have compensation schemes in this area that it will be up to each municipality to comply with. This means that local self-government should trump the importance of making universal arrangements and equalising unequal treatment. That's the one big challenge. I think very many people who are hit by this now, and who will be hit by it in the future, will experience it as very unfair that it should be up to where you live, how this lands. It's made a expectation that you have to equalize that difference. It's come out in the media lately. Some politicians, apparently at least, have given signals different from those that appeared in the media a week ago. Secondly, sending this case back, to some kind of cooperation between the government and the KS, gives a strange signal. KS is an association of interests for all municipalities, including those municipalities that do not want such schemes. So how KS, in cooperation with the government, intends to find solutions that are good for everyone, is simply hard to understand. I think this is a bad suggestion. I think it's a disclaimer from Stortinget's side that you push this back to some kind of cooperation between KS and the government to find a solution. Here, the Storting could at least have directed something more clearly what you want out of this. The third demanding political signal is that it is said that this should be based on volunteering – that there should be voluntary schemes KS and the government should arrive at it. It just underlines the concern that this will be handled very differently. I fully agree that it is those who have failed, who are going to make up for themselves, as the representative Horne said. At the same time, it must be based on a national standard, and not on a voluntary approach, to which this proposal refers. Fourthly, by this decision, the government parties and the Right send a signal – and I refer to the statements made by the case-rapporteur – to municipalities governed by the Right or another government party, that this is not necessary. That means that municipalities with a Right-Rapporteur will be able to refer to the case-rapporteur's, the representative Frölichs, post and say: we have received this guidance from the KS and the government, but we do not have to go into it, just see what the Right-Representative has said in the Stortinget. In total, this is a very large discharge. There are four political signals that make this very disappointing and very offensive to those who have been and will be exposed to it. I refer to the SV's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1200	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1205	I am pleased that the Labour Party and SV in the Judicial Committee support and promote the Christian People's Party's proposal for a comprehensive review of public uprising schemes. The keyword is ‘entire’. I see that the Right Party, the Left Party and the Center refer to the review of the Grand Duchy's judicial compensation system made in 2013, but the whole point of this proposal by the Christian People's Party is that the government is going to carry out a comprehensive review of all public redress schemes – simply because there is a need for such a review in order to increase and ensure justice. We have witnessed this autumn that a case by case has been rolled out in the media about how people who have experienced injustice and, in some cases, have been subjected to serious abuses in the public service are being subjected to another injustice in the face of very varied systems of upliftment. What turns out to be crucial is to a greater extent the municipality in which you live – and not how serious the matter is. That's what I mean seriously that we can't have it. I record that the Right Party, the Left Party and the Center Party are pushing the autonomy of the municipalities forward when they do not choose to support our proposal. What we are asking about in this proposal is a comprehensive review of schemes at different levels to identify two possible problem areas. One is whether some groups per day fall outside all schemes and should therefore be included in a system of upliftment. The second is whether the charging schemes appear unfair because there are so many variations between municipalities in the payments. This is an overall review that must of course be done from the state, but we have not pushed out the result of such a review and have therefore not chiseled out any solutions. Therefore, it surprises me that the Right, Left and Center parties are not even interested in getting such an overview of the arrangements at the different levels. As politicians at both local and national level, we need to be humiliated by the fact that the systems and mechanisms we manage have potential for improvement. In particular, we must be responsive when groups who have been subjected to injustice, precisely within the framework of the institutions for which we are responsible, ask us to take a closer look at a matter. That's why Oluk V. Bollestad and I took it very seriously when we heard about Mona Anita Espedal, which the Norwegian people met in NRK's Focal Point documents this fall, which made us aware of how unfair these arrangements are to many of those who need a real uproar from the public. We hope that this representative proposal, together with the media coverage of the case, can in itself contribute to increased attention to the arrangements – and perhaps even a more fairer practice. The Foundation Recruitment for the Losers conducted a study prior to the Focus documenter showing that only 12-14 pst. they knew that the municipal and county authorities were at all in existence. I had really believed and hoped that the majority of the Storting would be more interested in achieving justice for these groups that are already exposed to enough injustice by the public. The Christian People's Party has not given up in this matter. We will continue to fight for increased justice and upliftment for people who really deserve it. The representative of Aasen-Svensrud has already addressed the proposals we have made in this document 8, and we support those proposals, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1222	I do not see the need for a new review of public uplift schemes. The victims’ compensation scheme is currently under full review as a follow-up to NOU 2016: 9 Fair and predictable – compensation for violence. As regards the justice system, it was thoroughly reviewed as late as 2013. The judicial compensation scheme is the Stortingen’s own scheme. Any person who has come out particularly unfortunate in his meeting with the public, compared with others at the same time, may apply for legal compensation. The course compensation is a discretionary compensation, i.e. a patch on the wound. Economic losses are not covered. It is a condition that the relationship for which legal compensation is sought is not covered by other compensation and reparation schemes. The legal compensation scheme of the majority is unlawful, and there is no substantive limitation on what can be claimed in return for. The cases are determined on the basis of an individual assessment of the reasonableness of the award of remuneration, and the damage must be linked to critical public relations. If the Storting is to ask for a review of state upgrading schemes, it should be made clear what one wants to achieve. It doesn't make sense to ask for a review of which groups are not included. There are potentially very large numbers of different groups. If it is understood that a review of the scheme will result in an exhaustive regulation of which cases trigger upliftment, it is appropriate to be aware that exhaustive rules are not dynamic and provide little room for discretion. Extensive regulation may present a risk of cases that should have been caught falling outside. Today, for example. not all victims of bullying are eligible for legal compensation, but some victims of bullying receive legal compensation after a specific assessment if they are to be blamed by the public. We must avoid making justice an alternative to general rights. The general right to compensation has as its basic principle that the person or persons who has committed the wrong shall be liable. This has an important preventative effect. The judicial compensation scheme has a subsidiary character and is intended to be the last resort to financial compensation. Several reviews of the judicial compensation system have been carried out. In particular, I am bringing forward the thorough and in-depth review that the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Justice and Defence completed in 2013. The conclusion at the time was that the scheme should be maintained as it was and that it was not appropriate to establish new adapted arrangements for specific applicant groups. The scheme for specific applicant groups would normally not be appropriate. It is better to carry out a concrete assessment under a general scheme. The 2013 review was presented to Stortinget in Prop. 1 S for 2013–2014. I believe that the 2013 conclusion is still standing. With regard to proposals for a review of the various municipal and county settlements and compensation schemes, I would like to point out that this is a system which the municipalities themselves are free to set up. We must accept that they choose different solutions, although this may lead to different practices based on the circumstances of each municipality or county. The established arrangements operate on the side of the legal compensation system and other state schemes. I would assume that a solution whereby the government takes initiatives towards the KS to assess the preparation of a best practice recommendation, as proposed by the majority of the Committees, could contribute to equal treatment, while maintaining autonomy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1238	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1243	It is quite legitimate to disagree with what is being proposed today. I mean, it's okay to think that what we're proposing is wrong. The problem is that in the 2017 election campaign there were clear promises from all parties, with the exception of the Center Party – it should be right – that one wanted a full review of the legislation. It creates certain expectations, and when it's said in an election fight, you have to assume that there's something you're going to follow up. Does the Council of State recognise that what was said on behalf of the Government Party in 2017, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1250	No, I can't say that. These claims also have a local self-government average in themselves. Who should make the payments in the different municipalities and counties is one question. Who will make the state reviews is another question. Who should make an assessment of the Storting's own schemes is also a question. I just hesitate to notice that I think everyone feels about the individual creatures that are presented in the media, and that this is not about anyone being more or less to correct the injustice that it is easy to live into. It is more a question of placing the responsibility for injustice in a much closer context with the responsibility of those who are to pay out any scheme as compensation or compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1259	My question was in what way you can acknowledge that one stands by what one said in this case – clearly shown in the focal point – or not. It's a little rhetorical -- I get it -- because we've left that position. But can the Council of State explain to me what, among other things, Minister of Health Bent Höie and representatives of the Progress Party and for the Left, did it mean that one was in agreement that one had to have a full review of the legislation? What do you want to interpret from it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1264	It is, of course, difficult for me to say what representatives who spoke meant – except to record what they said. Some interpretation beyond that, it's hard for me to do. But I have to say that a review of best practice, to which it is added to the KS and the municipalities, I think is a good and most acceptable response to the challenges you saw at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1269	There will also be questions about words and interpretation from me – the Minister of Justice will excuse me. In the proposal for decisions that we are most likely to adopt today, it is requested that the best practice recommendation for voluntary municipal and county compensation schemes be initiated. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Justice to clarify what is meant by ‘voluntary’. Is there a voluntary nature to have compensation schemes, or is there a voluntary nature to choose from a menu of different schemes? And in that case will the Minister of Justice make a set of alternatives into which the municipalities can go?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1276	As the representative Eide certainly knows, this is not a proposal formulated by me or the Ministry of Justice, but of course we should follow it up. A dialogue with the KS will show what is an appropriate way to organise it and at what level the volunteer will be. What I think is useful, however, is that we have a political democratic system in Norway that initially allows inequalities. There are different care for the elderly, there are different childcare facilities, there are different ways to organise child protection. It's part of what's local autonomy. I interpret this proposal in such a way that you want to maintain local self-government. That's what I have to base the dialogue we have with KS.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1281	Thank you very much for your answer. However, I would like to go a little further into how the Minister of Justice experiences the concept of ‘freedom’. Is it so – although he has not formulated it, if he interprets it this way – that the concept of ‘freedom’ implies that municipalities also have a willingness not to have any compensation schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1288	As this is a dialogue that will take place between the KS and the Department, I think that this issue also needs to be discussed. We in the Ministry of Justice have not intended to promote a proposal to do something that is voluntary today, as a coercion. That's not our intention. Our intention is to follow up the decision that is coming and to engage in a dialogue. But I've noticed what's the premise for the proposal. The premise for the proposal is that municipal autonomy should exist. I think that's important for us not to underestimate in the dialogue we're going to have. This means that there will be different possibilities to choose practices based on what is a KS recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1295	I think the last answer was pretty interesting. I cannot interpret it differently than that the Minister of Justice is going to accept that volunteering is also going to be about some municipalities – in a dialogue with the KS – actually not choosing to have uplifting arrangements. In that dialogue with KS, best practice should also be discussed. I just wonder if the Minister of Justice can elaborate on what he wants to put into the concept of 'best practice' when he's going to enter into a dialogue with the KS.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1302	I don't think you, as the representative Becquerad does, should interpret that I put either one or the other in the concept of 'freedom'. What I'm stressing is that we use the concept of "municipal autonomy" as the basis for the dialogue that is going to be with KS, because that's what's in the premises. It will in many ways be up to the Storting, who has formulated the proposal, and those who have made contributions today, who represent the majority. That will be an important part of what I take with me in the further dialogue with KS. What I want to put in ‘best practice’, I don’t have any opinion about now. There's some of the things that will come out of that dialogue with KS. On the basis of the dialogue with KS, I would like to make the formulations of the majority here. I would also like to base the comments that I have heard that the representatives of the majority have made in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1312	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1319	The author says that the parties have different understandings of reality. Yeah, we've got that in between. We have to be honest about that. But there's a sense of reality one in a way that can't get away from this debate, and that's what I think is the worst. As I said in the line change instead, I think it's quite legitimate to disagree in the matter. But there was a clear call for a wanted full review, and it didn't mean one anyway. I also think that when Peter Frölich thinks that the Workers' Party, which is the original proposal of the Christian People's Party, is greedy, perhaps the government party now prefers, the very definition of wool. What one gets out of the decision here today is maybe nothing, maybe a little bit of change. Maybe someone would like to do this in a better way – I think, because I have a lot of confidence in many speakers around the country who want better arrangements. But we don't know what we get. I think the proposal to take an initiative towards KS is far too bad. I thought it was well illustrated in the line change, where the representative Bekkewold asks the Minister of Justice what is best practice. I think if you want to know what's best practice, you might need to do some kind of review. I would like to pay tribute to the representative, Solvency Horne, who is always in debates on these issues, at least shows a genuine understanding of what we're actually talking about. The report by the representative Horne on the review of the system of compensation for victims of violence is very important. The problem is that only repeated reminders from the Progress Party on Stortinget do not seem to have much effect. We have read the Ministry's response to the call for proposals on the follow-up to the NOU on compensation for victims of violence. Although Solveig Horne has said in several debates that work must go quickly, it does not seem to do so. I want Solvency Horne to be happy to influence his own minister and say his own government in this matter, for she is very, very important. I would like the Centre Party to have supported the Workers' Party, SV and the Christian People's Party in this matter today. I think there is something misunderstood about the debate on municipal self-government. Here you want a pass, a wish to watch error. There's a good reason to do that, and I want to ask the Center Party to think about one more time before we go to voting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1338	In the case of proposal No: 1, from the Christian People's Party, there is already a full review of the system of victims of violence. In addition, the Stockholm Judicial Remuneration Scheme was thoroughly reviewed in 2013, which has been said a lot about here today. It was concluded that custom schemes for special search groups should not be created. Today, there are no substantive limits on what one can seek compensation for under the judicial remedy system. Starting to define which groups are to be included and not, this may lead to a risk that the event that should have been captured ends up falling outside. In the case of proposal No: 2, from the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that the municipalities are covered by the universal right to compensation. Under these rules, municipalities may become liable if they have failed. This applies, inter alia, to: if the protection of children has not intervened when they should have done so, and when the municipalities have done wrong, and it should also be the responsibility of the municipalities. The compensation schemes in question exclude the general right to compensation. Many municipalities have voluntarily chosen to set up their own settlement schemes. This is not a state governed by it. Therefore, the centre party does not wish to impose requirements on the municipalities as to what the scheme will look like. There are many municipalities that do not have such uplifting schemes today. I mean it's positive for several municipalities well to set up such schemes. Then there is an advantage if one has an example of how such a system can be designed in a fair and good way. Our proposal to set up a best practice recommendation will mean that the municipalities that have already created upgrading schemes can improve their schemes based on a recommendation. The municipalities that for various reasons have not created such schemes, which may have refused to do so, will be given good guidance. I hope that such a recommendation can serve as an incentive to create uplifting arrangements in several municipalities, and that the schemes that already exist can be more and better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1349	Let me just be perfectly clear: adopting a complete investigation of everything is really an investigation of nothing. We've been in politics long enough to know that that's how it works. On the other hand, proposing that the government should now meet with KS in order to combat different practices in municipalities is one of the most concrete things you can do to get to the root of the problem. We don't need an investigation -- we really don't need an investigation of the state of the municipalities. And you know why? I can give the fasit here and now. It is just to turn Focus on and see that there is a link between different substitution schemes that are practised differently. That's the fasit. The question we can address here and now in this room is, what do we want to do with it? How far do we want to go to direct the municipalities from this hall? We've said that there's a fundamental distinction here. There's something called local autonomy. We may have strong opinions about how the municipalities should set up these schemes, but it is better to do so in cooperation with the municipalities than to relieve them of responsibility and actually make our compensation system worse, or to impose things on the municipalities through coercion. Petter Eide was inside a point that I wanted to sign out. He was uncertain whether I signaled an accident related to the local authorities' attitude to compensation schemes. I don't know how he could interpret himself until then, but at least I can take the opportunity to be very clear: local authorities who do not provide a decent compensation scheme when the municipalities have made serious mistakes do not deserve re-election, whether they are red, blue, yellow or green.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1358	It may be difficult for those who are sitting and listening to this debate to understand what it is essentially about. But the fact that the opposition makes it like the majority in this case doesn't want to give up, that we don't see the injustice that very many of these children and young people have been exposed to, is going to be wrong. However, I have also heard that before this harvest, so it must now just be. I have given a political signal on this matter, and it is that I want us to have equal guidelines in the municipalities. I believe that the majority's proposal now clearly provides for equal guidelines to be put in place. So we have the compensation for the victims, which the government is going through, and I repeat, I hope that it will quickly come into place. We have the justice system, which in 2013 came to a conclusion that works well, so what the minority wants to have a full review of it, and what they want to achieve with it, I can't quite see. So I'm going to give some credit to SV, which is actually so concrete in its single proposal that they ask the government if necessary to set up a national compensation scheme or national legislation for municipal schemes. But it's all there is to it. For us it has been important that we have a voluntary scheme outside the municipalities, but it does not relieve the municipalities of liability. All municipalities are covered by a liability obligation, and then municipalities – and all municipalities should have – have a compensation scheme in addition to which we see that there are far too many differences, and that now makes us want to put in place a similar code. The proposal for the Christian People’s Party states that they wish to ‘get an overview of potentially problematic discrimination’. Yes, having been part of the political life here some years I know that it's going to take time to have a review of it. But it won't just take time. Why do we need a review to see if there are any problem differences when we already know that there are some problematic differences? Then we have to do something about it, and that's what the majority do in this case. We ask the government, together with the KS, to put in place a best practice, similar guidelines in those compensation schemes, so that responsibility is placed there. It must lie with the municipalities – it is the municipalities that have done the wrong thing to fail these children. And then the victims' compensation system and the justice system, which works well, should also contribute to the compensation arrangements that we are going to have here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1371	I am absolutely sure that everyone here agrees that these are terrible bad things. There are things where we want to do the best, and the Central Party believes that we have a proposal that is far better than the proposals promoted by the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, and that's why we choose to go for it. It's a misunderstanding that's been repeated indefinitely here, and it's that compensation on a general basis is voluntary for the municipalities. It is not voluntary for municipalities to be liable for civil liability under private law liability, it is not voluntary to be convicted of criminal liability in criminal matters, or of reprisals in criminal matters. I want to challenge the proposers, the Christian People's Party, because here it is repeated several times that you want to review all the arrangements. However, the proposal does not provide guidance as to the arrangements for which it is intended, in addition to the compensation for the victims of violence and the system of compensation for justice. In addition, the proposal does not provide any guidance for which groups the Christian People's Party really wants to integrate into any new arrangements. I also think it is very special that neither the proposers nor the Workers' Party nor the SV make any further assessments or considerations about the importance of intervening in municipal responsibility. I believe that the majority today does not write down responsibility, on the contrary, we take responsibility for placing the responsibility where it belongs, namely with the municipalities, which are damages, which should be responsible. If you want equal arrangements in all municipalities, there are no longer municipal schemes, then there are state schemes. As far as I know, it's only SV who's been honest that they want to propose it, so there it doesn't seem like the minority parties agree on what they really think they want. I also find it problematic and a little special that neither the proposers nor the minority have taken up the importance of procedural relationships in the matter of compensation. In damages cases where a claim for compensation is rejected by a municipality, one can try a case before the courts, but this may involve a high risk for the defendant, who will often be the weak party up against the municipality. I believe that the problem is to a large extent not just a lack of authority for compensation, but the possibility of enforcing the right you might have. After today we will deal with a matter that those who are right will also get right. I believe that this is also most relevant in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1386	Then I will also be allowed to use the introductory phrase: let me be very clear. SV wants national schemes. We do not want different practices from municipality to municipality. People should be treated equally wherever they live. If it is then required that a national system, like a law or obligation in respect of human rights or whatever it may be, should of course not be up to local self-government to decide whether to get these arrangements. That is why we have agreed to this with national schemes. In the line change, I got a little confused, I have to admit. For there, it emerged — a little back and forth — that the Minister of Justice also felt that volunteering could mean volunteering to have no arrangements. Later in the debate, the representative Frölich said that he felt that there had to be decent arrangements. But that is not what the proposal for a decision says. There's nothing about decent arrangements. There are voluntary arrangements. I think he should have written it if that's what he thought it should be: decent arrangements. But there are voluntary arrangements. The third article in this debate on volunteering, by Emilie Enger Mehl, was very clarifying. She's a lawyer, and she says that of course it's not voluntary. So here you have three different interpretations of the term 'freedom'. The Minister of Justice has his explanation. The representative of the Right has one explanation. And Enger Mehl says that of course it's not voluntary. To Enger Mehl: It is actually voluntary, the term ‘voluntary’ is in the proposal. And then kind of the confusion around this is pretty big. To the Central Party: I believe that it should not be the case that municipal self-government should thwart any other policy. Here we are looking for good arrangements to give people good compensation. There can be no such thing as the fear that the municipalities will be overestimated in their own thinking about this should be more important than the fact that people get good arrangements. But I would like to ask the representatives from the government parties, and also from the Central Party, to clarify to this room what the term ‘freedom’ means in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1399	It is remarkable that the Council of State of the Progressive Party draws up local self-government as a sort of sacred grail in this debate, he even uses the elderly care as an example, all the time the Progress Party has, after all, made itself a spokesperson to state just this service offer. As a local politician for many years, I know a lot about the importance of local self-government and have a great deal of respect for the fact that decisions and responsibilities should be kept under the tightest possible control of the nearest decision-making body. But this is in any case a degression in this case, for the case is not primarily about local self-government, it is about justice for individuals who have failed by the public. The proposals of the Christian People's Party think we are balancing this in a good way. That is why the Labour Party has taken up its two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1408	I'm not going to extend the debate very much, but I'm also going to settle for this point of volunteering. When I hear the post of Solvency Horne, I hear a representative saying – and I want – the same guidelines. She wants likeness. If that is what one meant, it should not be stated ‘voluntary’ in proposals for decisions. So the question is now: will the Labour Party vote for the proposals we have made on the matter and propose alternative voting, that they be set up against the plural setting? But I think that the government party should have considered taking out the word ‘voluntary’ if it is such that one actually means what the representative Solvency Horne says. What kind of meaning would it be if we went into some of the local self-government, for example? after a review, should we find out that we should have a common code, that we should have changed guidelines, ear-marked means? There are more solutions here than those Peter Frülich thought were foolish, as he stood up to list. There is one that could have been found if one carried out a new review. I don't think it's like that because you've looked at something before, it's going to be the exact same result if you look at it again. It could have come in a lot of new moments. Maybe you have to do it in a more thorough way. Maybe we should politically order it even more clearly, and I am too much in agreement with those who praise SV for making the suggestions they make today. A good place to start would be to get a new review. Then I agree with Petter Eide that when Peter Frølich thinks that if a person does not experience decent arrangements, according to what I understood from his post, a person should not actually vote for that spokesman in municipal elections, or that spokesperson should take his hat and go. Yes, it's legitimate to mean, but I think it's too passive, when we here at the Stortinget see how unfair it is, just as Solveig Horne says. It's not like we're wondering if the schemes are unfair. It has quite a lot of good reasons for both claiming and saying, but it's very different practice in Norway, and it wasn't the theme of the line change here instead. When Becquerad challenges what's best practice, one doesn't necessarily know that either, and that resistance to taking a review I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1417	One of the last things I did before I arrived at Stortinget in 2009 was as a municipal politician to lead the municipality's chastisement scheme for former children's protection. I know it's very different practice at what level you set in terms of these uplift schemes. We were going to decide what level to put ourselves on, and then we had a menu of different solutions from both the municipality of Norway and the county councils. Fortunately, we chose to go to the highest level. Otherwise, I record that the Central Party is very concerned that the Christian People's Party in its proposals is only committed to having a review of the victims' compensation scheme or the justice system. No, we want an overall review of all compensation schemes at all levels. One has to see these two proposals in context. Otherwise, I record that the majority today is likely to have an impact on their proposal to engage in dialogue with the KS in order to develop a best practice for voluntary municipal and county municipal schemes. I have registered that the proposers themselves cannot explain neither best practice nor whether this should be voluntary schemes or not. That, I believe, is the weakness of the proposal that is likely to have a majority today. Then we can risk getting the very outcome that the representative Frölich himself believes the two proposals that the Christian People's Party has promoted will get, namely that we end up with nothing because this is voluntary.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1427	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1432	I saw the need to get hold of the representative that Petter Eide picked up – what is voluntary, what isn't? It seems that SV does not at all relate to the existence of general liability for everyone, including municipalities. In the post to the representative Eide, he said that they were not aware of it, and if they have not been aware of it when they dealt with this matter, my confidence in it is even more impaired. This debate has shown more than anything else that the minority does not agree with themselves on what their proposals are. Some people want a state system, some don't want it, and no one has thought particularly carefully through what it might mean. They send responsibility to the government, which is to make an overall review – while we are actually proposing something quite concrete, which is to make a recommendation on how to do this in the best possible way in all municipalities and county municipalities. I think that is a good practical policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1439	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1455	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1464	We're dealing with Innst today. 71 S for 2018–2019 from the Judicial Committee on the Proposals for Representatives of the Grandparents, Lene Vågslid, Maria Aasen-Svensrud and Jan Bøhler to strengthen the legal certainty of people, so that those who are entitled may also be entitled. Dispute resolution in the courts may involve considerable costs. The availability of free legal aid means that it is not only those who can afford it, who get it right. It's not going to be an economy that decides if anyone can claim their rights. It is important for legal certainty that legal aid is also available to vulnerable groups. In order for the free legal aid system to function optimally and in accordance with its purpose, it must be adapted to the society in which we live. The Committee has agreed that the current legal aid system needs to be adapted to societal developments. An effective and targeted system is needed to meet changing needs. The majority decided in 2016 that the government would come back with proposals for a new legal aid model. The disagreement in the Committee today is primarily in the time perspective of the proposal for a new system. In addition, there is disagreement as to whether some of the proposals in the proposal for a representative are to be adopted at present or whether to await the government's proposal for a new system of free legal aid. The party strongly supports the proposals made in the draft representative and has given reasons for this in our comments in the vote. The centre party is concerned that we should put in place a better and more up-to-date system, and is critical of the time spent by the government in this matter. It is positive that a sample has been set up to assess what action can be taken to improve the scheme, but it should have been done much earlier in the view of the Centre Party, so that we do not have to wait many years to put in place a new and more accurate system of free legal assistance, which guarantees justice in society. I would also like to emphasise that the salary rate is an important ground for legal certainty and that it is important to have a right to negotiate for the law associations. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1483	Legal certainty is one of the pillars of society. It is a hallmark of a rule of law and a democracy that there should be equality of law and good legal certainty for all. That's also the way it should be in Norway. The background to the Labour Party’s proposal is that there is little point in being entitled to the costs of the necessary court proceedings preventing you from actually getting the right. Important well-being related to the family, young people, your home or work may be lost. At a time when more and more welfare goods are being legalised, unequal access to qualified legal advice and judicial proceedings will help to increase the diversity of the country. Those who cannot afford a lawyer or other legal assistance are less likely to do so than those who can afford. The law doesn't really equal everyone. Norway is a country with relatively low inequalities, but more and more we see an increase in inequality. It also applies to access to the legal system. If everyone is to be equal to the law, they should also have access to good legal assistance with at least means. It's a rule of law for a law-abiding society. It is a paradox that the state should have unlimited means against its inhabitants, while some people do not get their rights to the state. Following the hearing of Norway in the United Nations Committee on Human Rights in March, the United Nations held previous criticisms of Norway for lack of legal aid. Free legal aid shall be provided in cases where ‘the interests of justice so require’. This is not the case when less and less legal aid is paid, although the economic differences in society actually increase. Access to the courts for finding a solution to conflicts is fundamental in a country governed by law. However, many people with normal income experience conflict resolution in the courts as inaccessible as a result of the risk of losing the case and being judged at very high costs. This is a challenge because access to justice should be real, and because the cost level could lead to people not taking the chance to take the case to court, even if they think they're right. The Labour Party believes that there is a need to put in place clear measures to reduce the costs of conflict resolution in the courts. This is not only about free legal aid or conduct for those with the lowest income, it is also about ordinary people, ordinary disputes and ordinary matters. If only the strongest get their right, it will contribute to increasing class distinctions in society. Through the Workers' Party's proposal, we ask the Government to submit proposals for a new legal aid model to ensure the extension of the field of use, to degrees of ownership and to raise income limits. We also ask the government to increase the use of mediation and conflict resolution outside the courts and to put in place concrete measures to reduce the costs of proceedings before the courts. I want to refer to the case manager's posts, where she talked about putting down a legal aid selection to be completed in 2022. It's, at least in my opinion, quite passive. Now it is two years since the Storting decided that one should review the legal aid system, and then it is not particularly effective to come now with a proposal to bring down a selection. We believe that one should not push for good action for years when one can make changes now, which would be for the best for people. So I notice that the government party in the comments indicates that one announces a change in the dispute law, and that one will come back to some of these questions. I think one could have done that at the same time as one supported several of these suggestions. It's important to strengthen people's access to justice and prevent people from simply trying their rights, because one can sit back with a bigger bill after the trial is over, than the dispute might be about. I take up the suggestions from the Working Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1508	The representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1513	The Right Party and the Progressive Party want a thorough review of the free legal aid system. We want to see whether the scheme should be extended to several areas or changed in other ways. The aim is to ensure a fair, targeted and effective system. The changes currently under investigation could have a budgetary impact of 150 million. SEK-250 million. kr if the income limit for tried and tested free legal aid is raised. In addition, if the scheme is extended to several areas, additional costs will be added. We want a thorough assessment of the consequences and whether this is going to be the right use of money. I record that changes in the income limit of the Workers' Party's alternative budget have not been taken into account. In the case of the settlement councils, the government is well in the process of facilitating the enhancement of competences. It is set at NOK 800000 for 2018 for this. Courses shall also be streamed, so it will be very accessible to the members of the Conciliation Board. The Councils of Conflict have been considerably strengthened. This has happened in the context of the introduction of juvenile sentences and follow-up, and an increase of 16 million has been proposed this year in the budget. kr. The proposal to amend the dispute law comes next year. The aim is to strengthen active judicial governance, both in order to ensure that the scope of the proceedings is proportionate to the importance of the dispute and in order to achieve a shorter duration of proceedings. The value limit for the sum of disputes is also assessed by small claims proceedings. I must again point out that the proposal before us today has considerable budgetary implications. Overall, it's estimated at 0.5 billion. kr. We believe that it is important to identify the different needs first, before deciding to use such large sums. It is also important to consider how the scheme can be more cost-effective. The parties who wish to address the proposal now, with such budgetary costs, should also show that they give priority to it in their budgets. I can't find it again when I read the various alternate budgets of these parties. Government Parties look forward to the investigation of the newly reduced sample being submitted. If we really want to improve the legal aid system, we first have to let the experts say how this should be organised. So we can spend money on it. The Right-wing Party and the Progressive Party shall make the following proposals: ‘The size calls on the government in the ongoing investigation of the legal aid scheme to return to the Stortinget with its follow-up measures to improve its efficiency and effectiveness.’ – Then the proposal is taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1539	The representative Guro Angell Gimse has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1544	Everyone in this room agrees that we should have a judicial policy to ensure equal rights and access to justice. So it shouldn't be the size of your wallet that determines whether you get legal certainty. In a democratic society, in a state of law like Norway, we're going to afford to make sure that everyone gets this in the same way, no matter how much money they have. That's why we have a system to balance this out. We have free legal assistance offered by lawyers – they get the bill covered by the public – and we also provide support to organisations providing legal assistance. In total, these are two very good arrangements, and what we're now discussing is how we can expand especially the first one. In fact, we live in a society of increasing economic differences, where it is obvious that there will be more in the future that will fall outside the free legal aid system. The government has included in the budget that we adopted yesterday a cut in the free legal aid scheme, on the grounds that there is less use for the scheme. We believe that the income limit that determines who qualifies for free legal aid has remained silent for ten years. At the same time, wages and social security are adjusted according to inflation and increased living costs. With the government cut, this means that more and more people who have previously qualified for free legal aid are now crossing the income line. One of the groups that loses this opportunity is young disabled, who is lying and tilting just around the sum that decides whether or not to qualify for free legal aid. The income limit for free legal aid is 246 000 kroner, the basic amount for disabled persons is 247 000 kroner. So these are people who earn little, and the income limit for free legal aid is about the same as the level of disability. We think that's fundamentally unfair. Then I am concerned that we – and that is what this proposal says – must also look at how the free legal aid system is to be extended. This may be particularly true in the area of salary collection. In a society with an increasingly brutal working life, we find that there are more and more groups who simply don't get paid, or have poor working conditions, and they need legal help to deal with it properly. We have discussed the crime of working life earlier today, and those affected by the crime of working life will also need free legal assistance. The current free legal aid system does not cover the requirements, for example: for the collection of wages and salaries. The Storting, or the Judicial Committee, is also currently discussing mental illness in prisons. This is also a group that is not entitled to free legal aid, and we need to see if we can get into the system. Then Guri Angell Gimse mentioned here that the proposals are irresponsible, because they have considerable budgetary implications. What is suggested here is that we ask the government to look at different aspects of free legal aid and then come back to the Storting – that's usually how big and government cooperates – and when this comes back with different calculations on what it costs, then of course we have to discuss the economy. It must be absolutely permissible for the representatives of the big business to present different proposals for assessment to the government, and then we will get the matter back, and then we will have to look at the budgetary implications. I think that is absolutely within the scope of the work that it has been arranged for here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1557	The rule of law guarantees our democracy and our rights, and for this to be well respected and the rule of law to function as it should, the whole chain of our justice system is important, both the legal aid systems, the police and prosecution authorities have their means, and the courts have their means. This is a whole where the weakest term makes the system look weaker overall. Legal aid schemes are therefore important, because they provide them with the least resources and perhaps the weakest groups in society have the opportunity to stand up for and exercise their rights. I am therefore pleased that the government has reduced the sample to review the entire legal aid scheme and that it will deliver its proposals by 1 May 2020. Government parties agree that legal aid schemes need to be adapted to the new everyday life we are in, and also follow the changes that time brings with them. We have also proposed that the government return to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain with measures once the review of the arrangements has been completed and after these have been evaluated. The representative Angell Gimse mentioned in an excellent way the strengths of both the conflict council and the settlement board in these matters, and it is important to show that we are also strengthening and improving where this is needed along the way. It was mentioned from the Chair that it has been cut into the free legal aid mechanism in the budget for next year. I will reject that. This is a so-called ‘regulatory arrangement’, and arrangements thus budgeted vary up and down according to the needs expected. So I'm going to reject that this is a cut, but it's an adjustment to the need that's estimated for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1568	The Judicial Committee points out important issues in its attitude. I am pleased to note that many of the Committee's proposals are already being followed up. With regard to the need for legal assistance, this is considerable, especially for the vulnerable groups in society. I think it is time to adapt more closely today's legal aid system to social development, the increased legalisation and the needs of those in need of legal assistance. It is important that the legal aid system takes the right groups of people and is offered in the right areas. Therefore, in October this year, the Government set up a sample that has been commissioned to go through the entire legal aid scheme and to assess what steps can be taken to use the funds for the scheme in a more fair, targeted and cost-effective way. The Legal Aid Committee shall address key challenges in this area and propose changes to adapt the scheme to current needs. The government will return to Stortinget with proposals for action when the selection has delivered its opinion. The complexity and extent of the change needs of the scheme are the background to the assessment of the need to reduce a public sample. I think it would be very unfortunate to present proposals for a new legal aid model in parallel with the work of the sample. The sample is set up to assess major overall repriorities and changes to the scheme. It is essential for the sample to complete its work, and it is the responsibility of waiting for its conclusions, so that the resources available to us are used as accurately and efficiently as possible. I believe that only such an approach could provide real renewal and a long-term improvement of the scheme, which could last over time. For the purpose of determining the salary rate of lawyers, this shall be assessed in the context of the budgetary procedure each year. Annual meetings are held with the Association of Lawyers, where they have the opportunity to promote their views, as is the case with the Association of Lawyers, and the Department is listening. I believe that a change to the existing negotiated solution model will put too much emphasis on future budgetary processes, which in turn could have an impact on other priority areas in the justice sector. As far as conflict resolution is concerned, I believe that it is an effective way of resolving conflicts and I agree with the majority of the Committee that the conflict councils should be strengthened. The Councils of Conflict have been considerably strengthened since 2014 in the context of the introduction of the new criminal responses to juvenile punishment and follow-up. Furthermore, an increase of 16 million has been proposed. to the Councils of Conflict in the draft budget of the year. The aim is to speed up and intensify the follow-up of young people who commit serious repeated crime. The conflict councils also implement a major digitisation process, which will make the process more efficient and free time for employees to provide services to users. Treatment in the Conciliation Boards provides a simpler, faster and cheaper dispute resolution than in the courts. In consultation notes on amendments to the Arbitration Act, the Dispute Law Evaluation, the Ministry has proposed raising the amount limit for compulsory settlement proceedings. It is expected that this will give more cases to the Conciliation Boards, and slightly fewer cases to the General Courts, which will provide a reasonable way of dealing with them. It is also noted that annual courses are held, financed by the Ministry, in order to ensure that the members of the Conciliation Board have the necessary professional competence, which helps to ensure legal certainty for the parties. I agree with the majority of the Committee that an important objective is to reduce the level of costs in civil matters. We therefore have good information on how the rules of the dispute law work in practice, and thus a good basis for assessing legislative changes that can help to influence the level of costs in the right direction. I would like to point out that the above consultation notes with proposals for amendments to the dispute law have recently been consulted. The Ministry is now following up the hearing. The changes considered include, inter alia,: an active case management from the court. It is an objective that the handling of cases should be proportionate, that the proceedings should be proportionate to the importance of the case and the value of the subject-matter of the dispute. Through an active role, the right could contribute to this by structuring and addressing matters during the preparation of the main negotiations. This is an important instrument for achieving shorter time and lower costs of action. Furthermore, different changes in the rules on costs of action are considered, so that judges carry out a real review of the level of costs incurred by the parties to the proceedings to a greater extent than at present. I would also like to point out that the ministry is considering proposals to raise the value limit for treatment according to the rules on small claims. Such a proposal would mean that more disputes than at present would be subject to the cost-reduction rule applicable to the small claims process and could thus contribute to mitigating the level of costs involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1591	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1597	Does the Minister of Justice see it as a challenge to the legal security of ordinary people when there is a risk of being charged between 300,000 and 700,000 kroner if a loses a civil case, and that claiming its right today can be seen to a large extent as a privilege for those with the most money?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1602	Once we made a consultation note on changes to the dispute law, it's because we thought there was a need to make changes to the dispute law. The hearing period expired in October, and we sit down to review this. I think there might be a lot of ways to bring down the cost. One thing, of course, as some people here suggest, is that the budget assesses the aid schemes. Another thing is to see if you can make the process itself more efficient and correct, so that the costs don't get as high as they are. But we've identified a need, and that's why we've started a process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1611	I thank you for your answer. It is essentially what the Labour Party is proposing today: some concrete proposals on how to reduce the costs of the case to the process. If you agree with these proposals, but don't want to vote for them now, but want to present them yourself, I hope that we will at least see them again when proposals for changes in disputes come. My next line really concerns the question of the follow-up to the call decision to review the legal aid scheme, because it has spent two years on it. So now the proposal is to set up a public selection to deliver its position in 2020. Does the council itself mean that it is a pace he is proud of?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1618	We've reduced the sample size, and it has different problems. It shall assess the rules, priorities and matters. It's important that this is done thoroughly, so that we can understand the economic consequences of this. It's easy to wish for rules that give more to everyone, whenever. But we need to have an overview of the economic consequences, and that means that we need to evaluate very carefully whether we are actually prioritizing the means we have, correctly and in a good way. Then I can also assure the representative Vågslid that with regard to the proposals from the Workers' Party, there is no rejection of them in my post. It's just that we're going to take them further into our assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1625	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1643	It's a long day for the Justice Committee in the main hall today, so I hope we have some energy to discuss this matter, and also two other interviews that come after me – also on very central issues. The picture of crime in Norway is changing, with a positive change. Crime related to profits, drugs and violence in public spaces is being reduced in all social groups. This is a Western trend. There's also less juvenile delinquency, maybe a little bit across what we get the impression in the media, at least if we see this over a period of ten years. There has been a clear decrease in the number of offences throughout the five-year period, almost 19 p.p. decline. So it's going well in a lot of ways in Norway. Criminologists are a little uncertain about the reason for this, but in the case of, for example: youth, it points out that changes in social media make young people be more inside and not so much out on the street and smash street lights, as I did in my youth. So we're facing another crime scene that has received little attention. In Norwegian homes there is a significant amount of use of power and physical violence in couples. More than every four women and more than every five men have experienced that the spouse or the cohabiter has at least once exercised physical power. A little over 5 pst. has experienced this from the partner during the last year. Every tenth woman has experienced a violent assault in the couple relationship, such as being suffocated, assaulted where a knife or other weapon has been used, beaten her head against an object, etc. One in ten women in Norway reports that they have been raped once during their lifetime. These are pretty serious numbers. We know from various scale studies that approx. 10 pst. of those who have been raped – only 10 p.m. – notifies this relationship. While such cases were reported to a small extent in the past — the police used the term ‘housekeeping’ for this — luckily, more and more such cases are coming to the police. There is a huge increase in the number of reports of family violence and sexual abuse, including against children, and a massive increase in the number of rapes. While one type of crime goes down, crime and reports are increasing in another area. We are facing a major challenge, we must have a police and judicial system in Norway that is able to change after that change – from the old crime scene to the new crime scene. The police's priorities are governed both by the National Attorney and by letters of assignment to the police. The attorney general is very clear to the police prosecution that this kind of case I have described should be given priority – that is the term you use, which means that if there is competition for time and capacity inside the police, it is these matters that have to be dealt with in other cases. If there is a conflict between operating an intrusion, or car theft or running after young people who smoke hashish, or, for that matter, establishing passport offices in many places in Norway, there is investigation into violence in close relationships to be prioritised, not the other things. That's what the Riksadvokat says. Other ways to control this are through letters of assignment to the police. But despite the very clear priorities of the Riksadvokat, that priority is not going to happen. The police report an average resolution of family violence of only 33 p.m. In some police districts, e.g. in the south-east, the clearance is all the way down to 16 pst. That means that if you are a woman who has reported her husband for assault, or a daughter who has reported her father, eight out of ten of these in this area will receive a standard letter from the police that their case has been dismissed, while the man they believe has committed an assault, still perhaps lives with them. In the case of rape, the numbers are just as bad. That's 80 pst. of the cases closed. In the West police district, that is, in Bergen and the surrounding area, nine out of ten things are being blamed. In the VG today, the state attorney there says that although nine out of ten cases are being laid down, it doesn't give him anything very bad night sleep. He says that to VG – an eye-catching statement. But it's not his fault, because it's actually a political responsibility that women in Norway don't get enough protection from the state. When the police don't manage to prioritize such matters, as the Riksadvokat asks, and as I think we have to demand, we have to take this responsibility at a different level. In fact, in cases where women are mainly victims, the legal system in Norway fails. This applies to family violence and rape, but also to trafficking in human beings. I believe this is the absolute greatest challenge for justice policy in Norway. It's more serious than juvenile delinquency, because it's about a small group. This is for the representative Gulati – we will discuss this matter a little later today. This is definitely more serious than persecuting young people who use lighter drugs, this is also more serious than using police resources to pick up families with children who are on asylum receptions or in church asylum, on which a lot of police resources are used. We'll discuss object protection later this week. Is it to protect more than 100,000 women who have been subjected to this – to provide them with proper protection – more or less important than object protection? I'm asking the question. That many things are resolved has many reasons. Many such cases have to be settled, because there is no basis in the position of the evidence. But when I talk to the police about this, the police themselves state that this is due to little resources – mainly because of little resources. But it's also because, they say, internal reorganization. They use a lot of resources to convert to the new police reform. They also complain that there are internal procedures that are not good enough to handle these matters properly. And even so, they complain that there are different pay incentives in the police. You earn more money on being out there driving a patrol than being inside investigating an assault case. It is clear that this is something I think the Minister of Justice has to look at. When we don't manage to get the police to convert to this new crime scene, I think it is necessary that we steer the police from Stortinget somewhat more closely. Of course, I'm basically concerned that the police should make their own assessments, but when we don't get it done, and when the police don't – for various reasons – the Storting must be clearer in place. I have therefore mentioned – and we will have future debates on this at Stortinget – that we must have earmarked resources for the police to investigate family violence and rape cases. This means that when a police district gets a sum of money earmarked for this field, they can't choose to buy a new car. No, they're going to spend that money on investigators for assault cases. We also believe that the Storting must decide that the police should set up their own groups in each police district to focus on rape and violence in close relations – their own dedicated policemen who are to work on this. A major challenge is that all those – mainly women – who get their cases laid down get a standard letter back that the case is closed. I believe that in these cases this family and these women should also have – if not otherwise – a telephone or an opportunity to meet the police. It will be a caring way to deal with a settlement. I also believe that the Minister of Justice has to look at the pay incentives in the police, so that there is a stronger motivation within the police to work on these kinds of issues. All in all, we are facing a major challenge. In the state of law in Norway, police continue to work slightly according to old traditions — they are not doing enough to convert to the new crime scene. That is what I am inviting to debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1681	Crime is changing. New forms of crime arise, others change character over time, and some forms of crime become less topical or disappear altogether, as society changes elsewhere or as society's attitudes to crime change. In the last five years, there has been an increase in reports of violence, abuse and sexual law offences. For sexual offences alone, there has been an increase of 66 pst. since 2013. Several factors may be involved in explaining this increase. More transparency about violence and abuse in society has contributed to more reporting to police and auxiliaries. In addition, there is an increasing number of cases that occur via the Internet, where the perpetrator reaches a large number of victims. The government has put in place a number of measures to meet challenges with the increased number of cases in this area. Our ambitions are made visible in our political platform, the Jeløya Declaration, where we state that the fight against violence in close relations and sexualised violence must be strengthened and given priority in the future. Another, no less important signal from the government is the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Control of Violence against Women and Violence in Close Relations. Through this Convention, we have committed ourselves to further intensifying this work. The action shall focus on prevention, protection and prosecution. In addition, comprehensive policies are to be developed in which we have committed ourselves to ensuring that all actions form part of a coherent and coordinated framework. We have already started implementing our Convention obligations. Coordination at State level is carried out by a cross-ministerial working group with representatives from six ministries and their Directorates. Action has been mainly coordinated through cross-ministerial action plans where prevention is an essential part of the effort, as well as assistance and treatment provision, criminal prosecution and action aimed at strengthening cooperation and coordination. An important part of prevention in the justice sector is to be able to provide good protection to the vulnerable, so that new abuses do not occur. Several protective measures may be applied by the police. Mobile violence alert and use of code 6 — blocked address — are examples of measures to ensure the safety of persons exposed to violence in close relationships. Another example is the ban on visits, which aims to protect victims of violence, threats and harassment. The refusal of access order shall mean that the prohibition is directed against, prohibited from staying at a specific place, or prohibited from contacting one or more specified persons. It is important that we are sure that the various measures work as intended. In a few weeks' time, we will be presented with a report where the overall problem has been investigating the extent to which a restraining order is an effective tool to protect victims of violence in close relationships. In the ultimate consequence, violence in close relationships leads to the loss of life. Partner drops amount to between 20 pst. and 30 pst of all killings in Norway each year. In 2017, 25 killings were committed in Norway. Nine of the victims were partners or ex-partners to the perpetrator. Research shows that in seven out of ten cases, there is registered partner violence before the killing. This indicates that there is a potential for prevention. This is the background for the government in October setting up a separate sample to review killing cases where the perpetrator is at the time or former partner. The aim is to identify the extent and, where appropriate, the manner in which failure has occurred in the handling by the public service operator before these matters. The sample shall make recommendations which may contribute to the prevention and prevention of future occurrences. I would also like to mention that the government is working on a new action plan against rape to be completed in 2019. The plan of escalation against violence and abuse is another important tool in the government’s efforts to reduce the incidence of violence in close relations and to strengthen the custody of children exposed to violence and abuse. The escalation plan, presented in 2016, focuses mainly on violence and abuse against children and young people. The plan runs out in 2021 and involves a gradual escalation of efforts. Never before has such a binding plan been submitted in this area. Let me go over to that part of the interpellant's question that deals with criminal proceedings. Through the State budget, the letter of assignment to the Police Directorate and the Riksadvokat's letter of objectives and priorities, there have been clear indications that serious crime should be given priority. Violence, abuse and sexual law offences are among the areas covered by this definition. In situations of resource scarcity, the task of each police officer is to ensure that the priority issues are given priority. Both in the interests of the individual subject and in the interests of clarification of the case, it is important that the investigation is initiated promptly, and that the total time of proceedings, from notification to the time of completion of the investigation, is made as short as possible. Disclosure is a key objective of police investigation. However, the evidence situation and thus the possibility of clarification will vary from case to case and from case to case. The percentage of data thus varies considerably for different types of offences. Despite the fact that issues of abuse in close relations have been given priority in criminal proceedings, there are factors that explain that it is demanding to ensure a high level of clarification of this type of case. In many of these cases, the evidence situation will be challenging. This could be done, for example, by: for cases where the criminal offence reported is somewhat delayed in time. In other cases, there will be a lack of technical evidence or witnesses to support the explanation of the parties involved. There will also be cases where offended persons do not wish to contribute to the disclosure of the case because of the close relationship with the perpetrator. However, I would like to stress that the objective of high clarification should never lead to a reduction in the requirement of proof in each case. It is essential to ensure that investigations with the highest quality possible and that those exposed to an act of integrity are met with respect and consideration. The establishment of support centres for victims of crime in all police districts is a significant contribution towards strengthening victims. The aim of support centres is to help to safeguard insults in the process from a police report until a decision is made. It is important that victims of violence have the necessary confidence that the police and the prosecution authority will take the matter seriously, although in some cases it is not possible to resolve the matter. More action has been taken to strengthen police investigations. As part of the near-police reform, the Police Directorate and the Riksadvokat have developed an action plan on quality assurance in the field of investigation and criminal proceedings. The plan contains a number of measures that will develop the research subject and help to improve the quality of research in the future than today. Among other things, the investigation shall become more knowledge-based and facilitate the increased use of civilians with a professionally relevant background, including in so-called everyday criminality. Measures shall also be put in place to improve the management of investigations and to create stronger investigative environments. The introduction of on-site police work will help to speed up the investigation. This is expected to result in shorter procedures and improved clearance rates. Rapid and reliable information from the offended, suspected and witnesses to the site is crucial in the initial phase of the investigation. This applies not least in matters of violence in close relationships and sexual offences. With regard to the issue of governance tools, policy priorities are operationalised through objectives and requirements in the letter of assignment to the Directorate of Police. The 2018 letter of award sets out an activity-specific target for effective, high-quality criminal proceedings. This target will continue in 2019 to ensure continuity and to compare results over time. There are related management parameters and performance requirements related to process time, clearance percentage and balances. In addition, the Police Directorate and the National Attorney's Office provide a presentation of the data that has been used down on crime types through the Strasak report, reported crime and police criminal proceedings. I would also like to refer to the figures already set by the Advocate General in his letter of target and priority. Finally, let there be no doubt — this is undoubtedly one of the most important fights against crime, as this government has established, priority should also be given to other criminal matters if one is faced with a situation where scarce resources need to be prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1723	I am very pleased with the special conclusion of the Minister of Justice. He fully agrees with me that this is the most serious crime, to which we must put all the cloths to fight. That means that when we see that the police actually don't manage to deliver on this conversion that we have to do, I want to hold on to the fact that we have to take some heavier grip. When I listen to the Minister of Justice now, he frameworks a whole series of actions and action plans in this area, and then it should almost not be necessary for us to do anything more. Nevertheless, we see that in Bergen only one in ten rape cases are filed before the court, nine out of ten being consecrated. In the Busherud area, where the president comes from, only 16 pst. of family violence cases brought before the Court of Justice. It's completely scandalous numbers, and it leaves many thousands of women in the most terrible despair. I promise you. This is actually an area where Norway is not so much different from other countries. Violence against women, family violence and rape are definitely the greatest human rights violations in the world. Amnesty describes it as the biggest challenge on a global scale that countries do least with. Just to clear up the concepts and why this can be defined as a human rights violation: the individual man, for example, who beats or rapes, he is a criminal actor and must of course be punished. But if the state does not do enough to protect the woman from this criminal act, then it is the state that fails, and the state that violates human rights. When we have figures like this in Norway – that the Norwegian State is unable to protect women from abuse, as we see here – we need to discuss whether the Norwegian State is also guilty of extensive human rights violations. Some of that has also been criticised for internationally. We have to raise this to an overall level, and that is why I believe that the Storting must take an initiative to address these issues to a greater extent – precisely because it is also about human rights. But I am pleased with the Minister of Justice's observation and his personal assurance that he is looking at this seriously, and I will promise him that I will follow closely the way this goes forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1736	I think there are three items that are useful to bring forward: One is that in this area there has been a strong growth. That's what the interpellant said, and he repeated it too. That growth has been almost explosive. Then it may not be so unnatural that the police spend some longer time getting to the finish line. That doesn't mean that these things haven't been prioritized, that just means that the growth has been so large that in many areas you haven't achieved what you're going to do, and you're following. The other important thing is that the police reform adopted by the Stortinget a few years ago is being implemented for all practical purposes at structural level this year — this year. I understand that many in the United Kingdom think it has been a long time since the adoption of the reform, but it is being implemented in individual police districts this year. The reform, which is primarily a quality reform – it is important to remember, and resources have increased at the same time as reform – is a quality reform that I hope and believe will provide quality results over time. But it may be a little early to expect full success already in the year of the reform. It'll probably take some time. I also want to give the representative credit for a very important thing, and it's a willingness to prioritize this, and almost name other things that he doesn't think are so important. Because after I became Minister of Justice in April, I have been to this pulpit quite many times, and most people have wanted earring or dedicated teams to many different types of crime – violence in close relationships is something else, rape is something else, youth, gangs, work life crime, animal law. I am quite often at this pulpit and listen to the desire to dedicate police resources or earmark funds for various types of crime, or, for that matter, I am on this pulpit and I hear wishes and are challenged as to why no dedicated funds have been earmarked for object protection and more concrete – or I am on this pulpit and I am challenged as to why I cannot earmark funds for a loner's office in Hemnes or elsewhere or a police station around. This is the first time I have heard one of the representatives say what he thinks we can give priority to, at least indirectly. I think that in many ways is an important thing, because it is clear that the police too must give priority. And I think it's very useful that the big deal in between has a priority debate. That doesn't mean you can't give priority to more things, but you can't give priority to everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1747	The level of reports related to violence and child abuse is increasing. The interpellance travelled by SV points to a serious topic that we have also discussed earlier in this room. Last time, the Workers' Party pointed out that the so-called escalation plan of the government was not a step up at all. Unfortunately, although the involvement with the Council of State is priceworthy, it is still so. There will be too much talk and too little power. It doesn't help children to talk, it needs action. Nevertheless, the government does not follow up this critical work in a good enough way. When the appropriations are not available – yes, then we see the consequences too clearly, as SV refers to in his interpellation. The Labour Party has repeatedly proposed measures in the United Kingdom to strengthen the fight against violence in close relations and sexual abuse. It is serious that the government has not promoted a new action plan against violence in close relations after the previous one went out in 2017. Action plans that are a clear description of actions and when actions are to be implemented are a tool that has proved to be very effective. There has been an explosion in the number of cases, but there is not enough money left to follow up these. This the government has to take over. Police statistics show that the number of cases involving sexual activity, intercourse and infringing behaviour carried out against children between 14 and 16 years of age has increased by 182.3 pst. since 2013. At the same time, the police districts, which are to investigate matters, have had less economic space under the Solberg government. The Labour Party believes that action against violence and abuse in close relationships requires a clear and strong strengthening. When violence and abuse occur in and around our families, this is not just a serious problem for the affected, it is a social problem. Abuse and violence make children and adults sick and have serious consequences for people's lives. The cost to individuals and society as a whole is significant. Unfortunately, the escalation plan by the government is neither concrete, obligatory nor sufficiently funded. The plan has major shortcomings and has received extensive criticism both from the Children’s Ombudsman and from UNICEF. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we propose 1.1 billion. in addition to the government's proposals in several framework areas dealing with this theme. The Labour Party has found the money and has made the priorities. Violence and assault are serious crimes to which society must clearly respond. The police with charges and investigations must be strengthened, and the courts must be able to deal with the growing queue of people waiting for justice and completion of their affairs, so that they can move on in their lives. Finally, work on the rehabilitation of both violent and moral convictions in the country’s prisons needs to be strengthened, so that no new abuses and new acts of violence are committed once those convictions have been completed and are to be returned to our neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1770	It is incredibly important to have a continuous work against violence in close relationships, and it is important to debate the topic. The representative, Eide, should have boasted that he is addressing the issue. Talking about violence against women and children and giving attention to the theme helps to eliminate the silence, shame and guilt, which may be the most important aspect of a victim of violence. A lot has also happened. It's not that it's been quite calm. The view of violence in close relationships has changed in the last 20 years. It is no longer the problem of the individual family. It's a social problem that we all recognize, all parties recognize it, and there's a lot of talk about it in a lot of different forums. I have given the representative Eide some credit, but I also have to give some criticism. I very much disagree with the representative Eide said earlier today that we are as bad in Norway as in any other country to deal with violence in close relations. I also disagree that there is such a bad attitude on the part of the police that we have to go in and control them in detail. It's actually quite remarkable to make such a proposal. It's black-painting the situation. It's perhaps worst for women and children to warn about violence that there are doubts about the system that's made around this, that they might be scared away and prevented from notifying about a serious situation. Most likely, women and children who are alerting about violence in close relationships will meet a competent police officer and a competent auxiliaries. There has been a lot of talk today that there has been a huge increase in reports of rape and family violence in the last three to four years. Kripos believes that there is reason to believe that greater transparency around this theme and more campaigns make more people choose to report. We know that keeping up with the increase has been a challenge for the police. Our Minister of Justice has said for several rounds in the media and here today that this is an important area for the police to prioritise. But we don't go in and control them in detail, because we know there's a lot of good work going on. Otherwise, the government continues to make targeted efforts against violence in close relations, and through the near-police reform, we have got a larger trade union environment. We have gained better competence from investigators of these kinds of things – there are now separate teams in all police departments. Through the Action Plan against violence in close relations, the government has strengthened the offer to victims of violence. Project November, which was one of the actions of the Action Plan, continues to work. There's a project at Stovner, where victims of violence in close relationships get help from different professionals at the same location. We have also strengthened the offer of victims of violence by establishing support centres for victims of crime in all police districts. There is also a lot of research on violence in close relationships. For the period 2014 to 2019, a research programme has been established and studies related to violence against the elderly have been carried out so far. The programme is continued for the next five-year period. In addition, we put a great deal of effort into the escalation plan against violence and assault, and we have put in a total of 800 million. kr for actions that we are in the process of implementing. There is also, as the Minister for Justice pointed out, a group of experts has been set up to look at partner killings and come back with proposals for measures to prevent such killings. In this year's budget, together with the Christian People's Party, we have allocated a total of 50 million. to investigate violence against children and to increase support for the State Children's Home. Of these means, we have also chosen to designate a piece of charge, which we know can be a bottleneck in this case. It's a long way to go when you're going to solve a social problem, but we're actually doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1789	I did not know if I should take the floor in this debate, at least not after the representative Angell Gimse spoke in such a good way about all the work that has been started. Nevertheless, I believe that such an important topic as this deserves a good debate in the Stortinget, and I am pleased that the representative Eide has promoted this interpellation. This is a theme that concerns us all – cross-politically – and it is a theme that concerns us when we see that there are so many things that we experience being blamed. What's the reason, and what's the solution to this? We should also be glad that there is an increase in the number of reviews. It has not been so many years since we registered – and were concerned about – that there were too few people who reported specifically rape, and there were too few who went to see the auxiliaries. We have more and more campaigns, more and more transparency and a stronger focus on this in the media as well, and things going on in the family are no longer a private matter. It has also led to more reviews. It's true, as the interpellant and the Council of State say, there's a change in the crime scene. There is also something the police have to take over in the districts. I want to get into a couple of things. I also believe that the police reform, the investigation promise and the efforts to put in place larger trade unions can help to bring up both the percentage of information and the increase in treatment in the police districts. At least I hope so. When it is so clear that these matters should take precedence, even when the police have to give priority, and there are so clear signals from the Riksadvokat – are you going to start detailing the police, or are we going to trust that we have a system in Norway where the signals that both the political environments and not least the Riksadvokat are being followed? I believe that this is also about management in the police districts, but these issues are so clearly signalled, also politically, that priority should be given to them. Several have been involved in the work of the government in connection with violence and abuse and violence in close relations. I also think it's very fun with all the action plans, but I just want to say that action plans don't solve all the world's problems. However, they are involved in structuring the work done in many departmental departments and directorates, and they give greater impact to the proposals that lie there. Although the action plan on violence in close relations expired in 2017, it is not that the work stops in the departments. I think the Council of State was very clear on that today. A report has been received less than a month ago to look at the measures in the action plan, how this should be continued, and how the government should deal with this. I trust that the government will follow up. Whether it's an action plan or something else, we'll have to wait and see. The most important thing now is that an action plan against rape has been launched, which will come next year. We have an escalating plan. We may disagree and say that the escalation plan is not good enough, but I would like to stress that it is the first time that such a binding action plan has been made by some government. It is an action plan that received criticism because there was too little funding. However, the content and themes that were there – focusing on prevention, those working out there and in contact with children and adults – must have knowledge and competence, follow-up of those who have been subjected to violence and abuse, and criminal justice measures – there are measures that lie there. I am very proud that the government parties together with the Christian People's Party, which has been a champion of the escalation plan like the rest of us, have been able to put in place a historic effort that obliges the government to follow up on. To the effort I have seen on family protection, many people believe that family protection offices are divorce offices, but they also work with families who have a conflict, and where there is violence, and it's an important work being done to expose violence. Knowledge of violence and abuse in both health and nursery education is also important for the detection of violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1812	Family elections, election sentences and sexual abuse against children are serious crimes that must be a high priority of the police. We can all be a few of them about that. The National Attorney General has also instructed the police to give such matters a high priority. I thought it was positive that the interpellant Eide invited to debate on how to secure itself against this very thing. The increasing length of proceedings and the build-up of the cows in such serious cases are alarming. There may be several reasons for this, including: Discovering the police several cases of sexual abuse against children. The head of intelligence and investigation in the Oslo police district has said that they are tired of recruiting competent people, especially to the department for the investigation of serious sexual crime. Resources and economics are a bit more police districts tired of, and the Central Party is very clear that more room for action is needed in order to prioritize and take the necessary action locally. The government has a key role in the way they control the funds here. I've also been very excited about the Progress Party Council's response to this interpellation. That being said, I would like to stress that it is not certain that setting a target is the right way to proceed, as the interpellant has been. There are already many target figures in the police, and with respect to reporting, this is not always the best method. The danger of counting everything that is possible is that one does not count as actually counting. In other words, one usually reaches the measure, but not the actual measure of the starting point. I think a must be careful using this method, and at least he must not be used uncritically. I look forward to righting the Minister of Justice's concrete plans to ensure the necessary priority for the investigation of family election, electoral selection and child abuse, and I hope to get an answer on how he will facilitate the police's recruitment of competence for research into these kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1823	All right, first of all, thank you to the interpellant Petter Eide for raising a very important debate. In February this year, the Christian People's Party called four different state councils for a historical interpellation. The State Councils of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs were asked to explain the status of the measures linked to the plan of action against violence and abuse in their respective departments. There was a clear need for even better coordination between the different departments, a responsibility of the State Councils of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, and far more offensive efforts by the government. That is why it was good to see that in the autumn the government provided the cost overview related to measures in the plan of action against violence and abuse. Of course, the Christian People's Party would prefer that more funds were allocated to even more of these measures, including in the budget itself, and in our alternative state budget we strengthened the appropriations for the fight against violence and abuse by over half a billion dollars. The Christian People's Party has seen with great concern and concern the sharp increase in the number of reports of violence and abuse against children. The police report that reports for sexual intercourse and rape of children under 14 have increased by 46 pst. from last year to this year. This is probably partly about increasing awareness that leads to more cases being discovered and reported, which is of course a good thing, but it also shows that, unfortunately, this is a criminal field that is about to escalate and destroy many thousands of children's lives. Therefore, these cases require the full attention and offensive action of the Minister of Justice, who also takes into account the use of new technologies and increasingly sophisticated methods to trick children and young people into situations they do not get out of. The Christian People's Party believes that one of the most important tasks that politicians have is to fight for a safe childhood for all children. The family is the child’s first and most molding community, so it is all the more harmful when not at home is the safe base for the child as it should be. In those cases, we, as a large community, are responsible for the help of the children, and not least for the police prioritizing the investigation of these matters. We're approaching Christmas, which is going to be a joyous celebration, especially for the smallest of us, but we know that some children are horrifying at a time when parents like to drink more than usual, and for some of these, Christmas also means an increased risk of being subjected to violence and abuse. That's why I and the Christian People's Party want to put us behind the representative Petter Eide, who is asking how the Council of State will work to get a higher percentage of information on the issues of violence and child abuse, as well as ensure the police's prioritisation of these matters. In addition, I was deeply concerned when I read VG's review of pre-treated rape cases, which shows that there are some large geographical variations in what can determine whether or not a reported rape ends in court. And I think it's nice that you can sleep well at night if you have knowledge of this. I would also like to hear what the Council of State will do to ensure that residence is not essential for a fair trial, especially in the case of rape cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1839	This is a serious situation in Eastern police districts. Aid lawyers are concerned about the legal certainty of children and adults who are exposed to violence in close relationships. The chief of police has said that the demanding situation makes matters that deal with violence have to wait. In response to written questions, the Council of State has stated that the situation in East police districts is not good enough. The Advocate General established that the situation described could not be maintained. When a National Council on Security admits serious failure within its area of competence, it is appropriate to ask what the Council of State intends to do to ensure that children who have experienced violence in close relations are guaranteed their legal certainty. That is the responsibility of the Council of State, as being the highest responsible. I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important question. Terrorism and violence in close relationships are a social problem and are serious crime, which needs to be prevented much better than today. Abuse and violence make children and adults ill and have serious consequences for the quality of life of those affected. The costs for individuals and for society are significant. There are a number of policy measures to combat violence and abuse. We need to enable the police to discover more and solve more issues, and we need to strengthen the children's houses. It's about priorities. The police have taken significant steps in the right direction in the fight against violence in close relationships and abuses, but they need increased resources to meet the scale of cases resulting from the detection of several cases. Data from Vista Analysis in 2012 show that violence in close relationships costs society as much as between 4.5 billion. kr and 6 brd. kr annually. It is worth noting that there are significant political differences in the power of action in the fight against violence in close relationships. Where, through the so-called escalation plan against violence and assault, the government has invested 67 million. kr for 2019, the Workers' Party proposes a strengthening of over 1 billion. kr in the fight against violence and abuse. In the past, the Labour Party has made proposals for an action plan against violence in close relations and an action plan against rape. The previous action plan against rape expired in 2014. The action plan against violence in close relations went out last year. It has been claimed from this pulpit that an action plan alone is not the answer. No, but an action plan commits, an action plan makes a structure work, has to deliver and has to report. It is worrying when the Council of State or the government does not take that responsibility. The numbers speak for themselves – and behind every number, it's a bad story. Strong measures are needed to prevent, investigate and deal effectively with cases in the Court of Justice. The Council of State would like to clarify why the government and he himself do not see the point that a new action plan needs to be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1856	First of all, thank you to the representative Petter Eide, who is raising a very important interpellation debate. Chosen in close relationships, sexual abuse, dictation – this is gross crime and a serious social problem, and I feel that I mean cross-politically. And then there's a little bit of a difference of opinion, especially when it comes to budgetary and resource issues. It is a fact that the police districts – the twelve now have – have experienced a huge increase. Capacity has exploded many places, so that those who are victims of crime are standing in line longer than before. When it comes to having the police detailed, SV should be allowed to put their words as they please. For the Labour Party, there is no doubt that work on violence in close relations and sexual abuse will be a priority of the police. But what I think is most important now is that the police districts have a resource situation that enabled the police to do what the Stortinget has decided. We've seen a lot of things in the media lately. Everyone reads about Tanja and her election history from Northernland. I don't think for a second that the police in Northern Ireland don't want to work on this in the best possible way. I don't meet any police in this country who say this isn't important. They also want to give priority to these things. But the feedback we get now, is that many people who are investigating such cases, have to choose between serious cases, serious cases, serious cases and serious cases. The capacity is so splintered that it is not just to prioritize them but to allow sufficient funds for the police districts. The legal security of both women and children in matters such as this is delayed when one has to wait as long as one does now to get matters settled. I don't think anyone in this room thinks it's in line with the people's legal opinion that perpetrators get a penalty discount after doing cruel criminal acts, as a result of long lay time in the police. I haven't met anyone who thought it was okay. Nevertheless, it happens, because matters lie too long. Following VG, the investigation period in elective cases increased by 45 pst. from 2014 to 2018. Then there is reason to take over what we are all a few about, that campaigns, which Kripos and the police have run around the whole country, work – they work! It may not be a surprise to anyone that we now see – fortunately, we must say – an increase in the number of messages, but then the Storting must follow up with the permissions and resources of the police districts, so that they are able to do the job we expect from them. We're talking about Focus here before today. Focus also has a document around Selection. There's a very good illustration of what it's like for someone who's experienced a rough selection, and who's been waiting for years and still hasn't been able to explain it, sitting on, for example. a doctor’s office and see a poster stating that it is important for a reporter to tell. It is experienced by a lot of people who are very tough and difficult when the matter is not resolved because it is going to lie down for so long. The representative Horne referred to the police reform and the investigation promise. The investigation promise is currently a promise and not a real one. I think it's positive that the agreement between the government and the Christian People's Party gave extra promises that were ear-marked for investigating power and abuse. That's good, but that's not enough. The challenge is much greater than that, and the Labour Party is about 70 million. kr on the research table, in addition to proposing to strengthen the police districts by 340 million. kr. This has been heard many times by the Committee, but the context of the criminal proceedings has to be linked. When a person now experiences waiting longer than before in the police, and a criminal discount if one has waited a long time to sue the court, it is challenging for legal certainty. That is why I am concerned – despite the fact that we are a few people here today about the seriousness of this – that a problem cannot be met well enough when sending police districts into 2019 with a still very demanding resource situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1877	Thank you very much to all those who have participated in this interview. I think it's been a nice debate. We've got a lot of good moments up. An interpellation is a little bit different than other deliberations. We're given the opportunity to focus a little bit deeper on one thing, we can discuss different things 'face to face' with the minister, and since we're not going to decide anything, we're not going to vote over anything, we can listen a little bit more than what we do in general collapse debates. There's sometimes an advantage in this house. I record from the debate that we largely agree on the problem description. No one has said that this is not serious, most have said that this is the most serious. That's what the Minister of Justice said, and I'm very happy to hear that, because it's an obligating concept to use. I then speak to the Minister of Justice when he personally assures the Storting that he is behind the counsel of the Riksadvokat to the police on how to prioritise this, and is also willing to use the letters of assignment to get the police to give priority in that direction. Before I finish completely, I have a very small comment to Guro Angell Gimse about things she may have heard I have said, but as I have not said. I do not believe that Norway is as bad as any other country, but there is little difference between Norway and other countries. In the case of violence in close relationships, the World Health Organisation operates with figures showing that one in three women in the world are exposed to violence in close relationships. The figures for Norway are one in four. For rape, the WHO says that there is one in six who is being raped, in Norway there is one in ten. So the difference isn't that big. Norway is better than the world average — it should be lacking — but we still have a major problem. Nor am I criticising the police, I definitely do not, the police work under certain framework conditions that they have to deal with. But I believe that it is the Constitutional duty of the Storting to govern the police. The police have a monopoly on violence and are our powers, and if we say that the police are going to do whatever they want, we're not doing our job. We're the ones who have to run the police. Who else is going to run the police? Nor is it that this government is going down the road to detailed management. Foreign policy is very detailed. When it comes to disposing of asylum seekers who do not have a residence in the country, there are very concrete figures on how to put this into practice. But all in all: thank you very much for a good debate, and thank you also to the Minister of Justice, who has met me on many points.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1890	Like most representatives, I think this has been a very good debate. I think it's an important debate, and I expect that we'll have it multiple times in different variants here in this room. I think it deserves it. I also agree with the interpellant that an interpellation is often a very good way to discuss things, and that is in many ways a debate I appreciate having. I also have to admit that we have challenges in this sector that I wish we didn't have. It is wrong to say that this is due to a resource situation, for this government has, after all, granted 3 billion. more in the police operating budget and more than 1 500 police officers. But we are in the midst of a reform, and as I stressed, the reform has been implemented this year. Then it's important to remember why we have a reform, and it's in order to have stronger, bigger and more robust units, where you can be good at prioritizing the important crime, that you can actually have dedicated teams that become good and develop knowledge and competence. I believe that the right governance in these areas is with the police chief when it comes to dedicating people. Our governance parameter is how we want the Police Directorate to report on targets, and that is, of course, the Riksadvokat's priorities. The Advocate General also has the possibility to supervise the police districts as to how they follow up on the priorities, what matters are being placed before him, and what matters are being explored further. So we've had an approximate explosive growth in the number of rapes, and we've in part had an even larger growth in online assault cases. These matters have in common that they are demanding research and taking a lot of resources. If one has several of these within a district, they take a very large part of the investigation capacity. This means that there will be differences between police districts. It is not because one of the police districts is worse or less important than anything else, but because the crime scene is actually different in the different police districts. That's why we let each police district try to control the resources so that it hits the crime scene, the threat and the challenges that are always right there. We have just implemented a police reform to improve on these issues. It is precisely these kinds of issues the police reform should be an answer to, it is not a challenge or a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1905	The debate on substance is then closed. 11th off.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1924	In the fall, a new coal started at 550 students at Politihøgskolan. That's the lowest number since 2009, when the red-green government increased its number to 720, which it's been on until now. The increase to 720 from 2009 had the background that then police director Ingelin Killengreen in 2008 presented the report Police against 2020. Here it was proposed to build up police coverage in Norway from 1.8 to 2.0 police posts per 1 000 inhabitants, and this gained broad political support. Because of population growth, it was estimated that this would require 2,700 more police posts by 2020. So to do this, the number of police students had to be increased. As late as the last year of the Right-Christian People's Party-Left government sat, in 2005, the annual high school was at the police high school of 360, which barely covers the number of police who end up or retire every year. It was then impossible to increase police coverage in Norway. Therefore, the red-green government doubled the recording at the Police College to 720 per year from 2009. It takes three years for them to be ready for service, so it was only from 2012 that we could start seeing the results. It's been going on and on since then. When I asked Minister of Justice Per-Willy Amundsen on July 7, 2017, he replied that the police coverage was 1.82, i.e. that it had increased by 0.02 pst., from 1.8 to 1.82, since 2009. We hope now that we will achieve the target by 2020, but a very tight police budget for the coming year will enable us to question it. In the ten years since two per 1,000 were launched, there has been a huge increase in the tasks we expect the police to solve. It's just to refer to online crime and ID thefts, to terrorism and preparedness, to rape and assault, to violence in close relationships, which we discussed here just now, to criminal gangs and organized crime, to human trafficking and labour crime, to social control and honorary violence, to tax and tax crime, etc. Meeting this with an increase in the number of police officers by 0.2 per 1000 inhabitants in 12 years is not exactly to be taken too hard. Every time we politicians and society meet a new major crime challenge, we say that the police need to prioritise the higher and deploy more resources. I'm not in any doubt that piercing the police around the country wants to do the most of what we ask for here at Stortinget. But the more and more tasks they get, the harder it gets to keep up. The number of unresolved and closed cases is increasing inaccuracies, and all except one police district reported in the summer and fall that they are much in deficit. Of course, both the media, the public and we politicians are strongly responding to this, but the police are not the only ones who have to stand in the pit of shame. The challenges facing the police cannot be solved simply by improving efficiency, prioritisation and reorganisation, such as police reform. It's also about being honest enough to see if the basic capacity of the Norwegian police is large enough to solve the fast-growing tasks we're imposing on them. In countries that have for a long time had the same crime scene as we are now facing, and with which we can compare in many other ways, the police coverage is between three and three and a half years of work per thousand inhabitants, so we have the goal of getting up in two in 2020. The countries to which I refer include: Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium and France — these are Eurostat figures for 2016 — while the southern European countries are several times higher than the figures I mentioned. Thus, Norway's target of two annual works per 1000 by 2020 is low in the European context and not a certain target that we will finally settle down on. We have to be able to call it a very balanced and careful growth of 12 years, and the Killangereen report of 2008 also stated that this is a minimum to ‘ensure a sound police service’. And that was before one could know about – and of course could know about – the great growth in tasks and challenges for the police nationally and internationally we have seen in the last ten years. It was therefore disappointing that the government chose to cut the recording at the police high school even now from the fall of down to 550. They justify that, in any case, we will achieve the target of two per 1 000 by 2020, because 720 new police will be graduated per year until then, as it is a three-year run at the Police College. They did not want to talk about it in the 2017 election campaign. I tried to record it. Nor did the report that was called the capacity and competence needs of the Police and Länsmannssetatet, which came before Christmas 2017, recommend that you start this year, but so you chose to do it anyway. What we of the Labour Party did when the proposal to cut the police high school came up in the revised budget was to suggest that instead we do a new, thorough analysis of the police's future tasks. We first wanted it to be treated before we started cutting the number of police students, and thought it should be a good and collective procedure to use on such an important issue. There was, as mentioned, a report that called for the capacity and competence of the Police and National Assembly just before Christmas last year. The work was led by a special adviser in the Ministry of Health and Welfare, Joakim Lystad, and the report was named after him as head of the working group. They also say that the trends indicate that the capacity needs of the police will increase. They say that something should go beyond the planned need for two per 1,000. They will not reduce the admission to the Police College as early as the government has done, but from next year, 2019. They will eventually go all the way down to 450 or 380 – they have two alternatives in the recording at the Police College. Instead, they will focus more on civil education and on continuing education, and they justify the need for more types of competence. There will be a new development of police in Norway with what they add up to, as they say to use those who are trained in other educational places, for example. universities, and taking bachelor's and master's degrees there, and if they combine it with taking 60 points in police matters at the Police College, they shall be given police duties and be able to use police uniforms. From their alternatives, the sample says that the track of having equalised education from other educational establishments and having 60 points in police subjects should be able to give up to 4,280 police in 2025 – after the alternative they are designing. They also have a proposal to share and specialise in education at the high school of Police, i.e. to get more of the specialisation you get in other types of education places and schools, and that the high school of police must be prepared not to rely so much on generalist education, but to add up to specialisation from the beginning of police training. I have a great deal of faith in that track, because it will also give the Norwegian police more of a common basis, that is, specializing in the educational courses at the Police College. What worries me is that the report that came was just 42 pages, and there were lots of repetitions in it, summaries, etc., so the real new content was on many fewer pages, and it can't be called an investigation in any way. There had been some uncertainty intervals, three scenarios, called ‘cowind’, the second being ‘mixed drops’ and the third ‘press from all sides’. Very general categories – societal development, threat development, climate development, efficiencies – were mentioned, but there was no analysis of developments in e.g. economic crime, cybercrime, violence in close relations, terrorism and preparedness, etc., and what the various fields will require of police capacity and competence. So I think it's insufficient to build on in the future discussion at Stortinget about what kind of police personnel we'll need in the decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1958	I agree with the representative. We have to think about the future, we have to make wise choices and make priorities today, so that we get a Norwegian police force well equipped to meet tomorrow's needs and challenges. We now have a historically high police crew. Since the government joined, the number of police posts has increased by over 1,500. The government is also on track to achieve the target of two police annuals per 1 000 inhabitants by 2020. By 31 December 2008, we had a police coverage of 1.64 police posts per 1 000 inhabitants. At the end of the third quarter of this year, the police coverage is 1.92. Much has happened since 2008. Since its accession, this government has launched a number of necessary measures and improvements to facilitate a good police service. We saw that there was a great need to make structural and organisational changes in the Norwegian police, and we have followed up on this. Police have gained many new jobs, improved capacity to detect and solve crime, and significant investments have been made to improve preparedness and response. This will include a new police emergency centre, a number of new police helicopters, the strengthening of PST's efforts to prevent terrorism and growth in IP3 teams and emergency troops. We have also strengthened the work against child abuse by, among other things. to increase the capacity of the state's children's home and to strengthen police investigations into violence against children. So the government has already taken the necessary steps. With the near-police reform, the government made absolutely necessary and important choices for the police of the future. Today, we have more robust police districts and operational centres and larger trade unions that provide good conditions for detecting and combating crime. We have established police contacts for all the municipalities of the country, so that the good local anchoring and contact that the police have traditionally had with municipal partners and the population can be further developed. At the heart of the quality part of the reform are the six standard functions, prevention as a primary strategy and the investigation commitment. Overall, these measures will change police working methods and processes, which require employees to acquire new ways of working. It implies that very many employees have carried out or have to carry out demanding careers of competence. The investigation commitment alone involves annual compulsory training for the field of investigation. The representative asks about two annual works per 1000 inhabitants. I state that this target is linked to two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants and is a national target. This target has made it possible to implement systematic and planned efforts on the police over several years. The near-police reform and the involvement of police-trained staff have given the department a historic boost. Police have never been better equipped to solve their social mission than they are today. In 2017, the government presented the perspective communication on the challenges of the future that will shape society as a whole. Globalisation with increased flows of people, goods and services across national borders, population developments where more people live in cities, climate change with more extreme weather, and technological developments with increasingly faster pace shifts are key elements of development. All these developments will also characterise Norwegian police and its ability to solve the societal mission and tasks of preparedness, prevention and combating crime in the future. In particular, I would like to highlight the technological development and change in the crime scene as a result of it. ICT has become an integral part of society, is used for important social services and is part of everyday life for most people. Technological developments have also contributed to a shift in the image of crime, where crime has become more dominant through or against digital channels, and there is more complex crime. An example is online assault, where there could be one perpetrator and sometimes hundreds of victims. This crime does not have geographical boundaries; it is resource-intensive to investigate and organise. These developments need to be put in a better position for police and prosecution authorities to deal with. The government is planning to send a big message in the spring session. The notification will address the future challenges that the police and prosecution authorities will face and the requirements that this imposes for the development of both capacity and competence. We are now in a situation where the work of investigating and rectifying today's and tomorrow's crime needs to be reinforced. In this case, particular attention must be paid to both the composition of competences and the capacity of the police. Through more than 1,500 new police officers and women, we have laid a good foundation. We're going to build on the expertise that's already in the police department and provide further development. At the same time, we need more specialists who are trained in the ordinary university and higher education system and who add the necessary additional competence to police work. The police need, among other things: more with sound ICT training and analytical competence. All in all, we need a broader competence in the police of the future. But we don't start on the bar hill. There have already been a number of police officers who have a high level of competence to meet a more digital image of crime and threats. A central measure here is the establishment of a national cybercrime centre at Kripos. If the police succeed in preventing and combating new forms of crime, the agency must be given room for action and flexibility. The government and the government must provide allocations and set targets. However, police management must be able to make the appropriations adopted available to crew, equipment and materials as far as possible. It must be the Police Directorate and the police officers who, on the basis of police assessments, allocate resources so that the police achieve the objectives and implement the priorities set by politicians. How we measure or assess the quality of the services provided by the police to society will be one of the key issues of police competence that we will discuss in the Single European Act. I would also like to add that it is not just appropriations, objectives and priorities that are necessary for the police to be well equipped to meet tomorrow's crime scene; I would also like to assess whether we have a legislative and regulatory framework adapted to the changes in the crime scene. I will not foreshadow the debate I hope the message will contribute to. It becomes important. We all have a responsibility for a robust and forward-looking police force. I look forward to continuing this important debate when the message is submitted to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1988	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I noticed that it was operated on with slightly different numbers about the situation when the process started. In the Killangereen report, page 60, they assumed that the police coverage was then 1.8 per 1 000 inhabitants while the Council of State mentioned 1.68. It's not really important here. They can only be from different times — the figures in the report, when it was written, versus the figures the Council of State has. In any case, it's not a big development whether it's from about. 1,7 or 1,8 up to 2 per 1 000 in 12 years. What's a little difficult to get at is the Council of State's view of how we're going to figure out what is the right measure for the development of the police in the decades to come. We reached a target of two per 1,000 in 2008. It was the result of a comprehensive discussion and extensive work. This time, as I mentioned, there is a rather short note on 42 pages, with many repetitions, which are not close to drawing up what concrete, major future challenges the police are facing, and what they will require of the development of different capacities and competences. It is common, when making a big message, to build on investigations and analyses to arrive at good recommendations for Stortinget. If you're going to build on that report, you have a very thin foundation. The Council of State says that the police should not be handled in detail, but we need to have a formation on the overall dimension of the police, as we had in 2008, and as the Storting has agreed since. The government clearly has an opinion about it when it has been decided to reduce the number of police high school to 550 from this year on – and did so before the Lystad group recommended it. Obviously, the government has some sort of perception of what the need is. I don't think you should just look into the air and find a figure for how many policemen you're going to train in the years to come. I think we should go deeper into it than that, and that was my purpose with this interpellation. I would also say, when the Council of State indicates that we need more special expertise, more in-depth knowledge in the various fields with which the police are to work, for example. data crime, that I believe an important answer to it is that if the Police College had developed its educational pathways more closely related to it, it would be more focused on police tasks than if you rely too much on general university education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e1999	The big message that I'm notifying will come in the spring, should just outline what kind of formation we have about the dimensioning of people with police training. There is no doubt that there will be more police in Norway in the years to come, but now that we see that we reach the target of two per 1,000, there may be reason to think about, breathe and do exactly the analysis that the representative is asking for, before we decide what the next dimension is. The increase up to now in Police College was also intended as a temporary increase in order to reach a target. If you introduce a temporary measure, and when you do what you need to do, it is reasonable to ask yourself the question: what now? I can also assure the representative that I have made no premonition as to what the content of police education should be, what the lines should look like, what the specialisation should be. I have also made no preconceptions about how many we need with police training versus other groups. That's what we're going to find out. But it might be useful to remember that just setting a new, high target because it sounds great politically, also means bonds for the police officers to have a kind of education and give less flexibility. I think it's right to have such a measure. We just have to make sure that it's not the one that has the highest measure that wins. What this is about is to dimension the police so that they meet the crime scene – not necessarily yesterday, and perhaps not today, but what is the crime scene in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2008	I would like to start by thanking the representative Jan Bøhler for travelling a very important interpellation debate. There are two things I think it is quite unwise to do if a person is thinking of improving the situation in the police. If one wants to reach the target of two policemen per 1,000 inhabitants, it's a very clever way to reach that goal. I would like to give some examples of feedback we have now received on the situation in the police district. With the budget to be allocated to several figures for 2019, one in the South-East police district has to decrease by about 50. We get feedback that one in Oslo might have to go down with 130-150 settings to balance. In the Aust police district we get feedback that this is about maybe 60 positions. Møre and Romsdal have about 50 job vacancies as of today. These will give us feedback on the need to keep the next year out of work in order to balance one, given what will be agreed for 2019. In Northern Ireland, one with the proposed budget framework will have to keep at least 10–15 job vacancies in 2019 to stay indoors. This is a bad policy to improve the situation in the police, and to meet all the challenges we faced in the previous interpellation debate, there were very many people who had to meet. I hear the Minister of Justice say they have established police contacts in all municipalities. I would like to have documented that, because that is not the feedback we received when we asked and checked. On the contrary, it's a long way to go until it's in place. Fifty million. They say that the government has proposed in the State budget to get the police students to work. I understand that very well. That the government claims that this represents 180 new positions is in itself provocative, says the Police Union to us. This means that politicians either do not take over the police directorate's own calculations that the police's position costs over 1 million. kr a year, or that they think the police students should be happy if they get three months in the building, the police community has told us. From the East Police District, we have been given some examples of reality, because it is clear that target numbers and statistics themselves do not always tell us what reality is. There, among other things, we have: to the right that the new police method, the police work in the city, which we are very few that is very good, means that a patrol spends much more time doing it than one did before. We get to the right that it might have taken 10 minutes before, but now it takes 40 minutes. It also means that it takes more time to complete the tasks, because there are other pressing and serious events, and there are not enough patrols to take off. In other words, there are major challenges when it comes to capacity and manpower. In connection with the budget, we have asked questions to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice and Defence about how many of the newly born students from the Swedish Police College get a job, as there are also very different figures. But if we stick to the numbers we got from the department itself, we got 99 pst. permanent employment in 2008–2014. In 2015, 94 pst. job, in 2016 received 82 pst. it, in 2017 got 61 pst. that, and then we're told from the ministry that the corresponding number for September is 12 pst. I think this is a disturbing development, and that one in this way actually separates itself from the goal of two police per 1,000 inhabitants. I also don't think it's related to what the Prime Minister has answered me in the Question Time, and as the Minister of Justice repeated here from the pulpit, that one has added more than 1,500 new ones. We have received a response from the Ministry of Finance that there were 6,800 who went on tour at the end of 2017, which is the closest we can define operational service. That's an increase of 250 from 2015. There's something quite different than what the Prime Minister has answered me in question time. I mean it also underpins my claim that one doesn't put the police districts in a good enough position to reach the metrics we've seen for them. It is a fact that some police officers around the country are now working in civilian positions and are counted as two per 1,000.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2030	The representative Bohemian addresses a good problem, as he often does. I am pleased with the reply from the Minister of Justice to the announcement that is being made, how the future dimensioning of the police and other matters in the justice sector will be addressed. As the Minister of Justice probably also pointed out, the number of police posts has to rise in the years to come, but the temporary target number that we have had an extra effort to achieve, we are in the process of achieving – we are on the way – and then we have to re-evaluate, as the representative of Bøhler has to address what will be the next objectives and the future need. We need a good and strengthened preparedness in Norway, but here we also need to see the whole – both in the criminal justice chain and in all the other instruments that constitute our preparedness. I would like to remind you that the reconciliation queue is almost gone, the number of places in KRUS has increased in recent years to add to more educated people there, the penalties are tightened up in a number of areas because one has thought it is right, the investments in new police helicopters, different new measures in the field of arms, both point and patrol weapons, the strengthening of children's homes, the strengthening of special organs – there are many things that have been done together that contribute to a better preparedness and that need to be seen in full. We must not blind ourselves to just one factor, although the number of police posts is obviously important and has therefore also been increased in recent years. There is no doubt that crime is more complicated and complex than before. It crosses both borders and sectors and well reminds us of a more hybrid issue than anything else. It must be able to deal with the police and the justice system of the future. Therefore, the dimensioning, composition and organisation of both special bodies and other aspects of the justice sector are as important as the number of police posts and police personnel in the districts. We also notice, when we are talking to the police districts, that more freedom is required in terms of how to use the funds. Although we have been very happy from a political point of view – and we have wanted – to earmark as much money as possible for police posts, we also get feedback that some places, for example. there is a greater need for investment in equipment, cars and other things than additional employees. So this whole thing has to be looked at when you're doing an assessment of what the next measurement should be, or how the future dimensioning is to be organized. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Justice has announced that there will be a communication that will also take these matters into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2040	I'm glad that the interpellant, Bohemia, has given us the opportunity to discuss this matter today. It means a lot to us what the police in Norway will look like in the future. Representatives Bøhler and Vågslid both have been involved in that, and I have to say that I share the concerns about what is happening in the districts. I will take my own home country, More and Romesdal, which currently has the lowest police coverage in the whole country, and has had it over time. Figures from September 30 show that the police district has 1.45 police per 1 000 inhabitants. If the objectives of two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants are met on a national basis, this does not mean that all police districts have two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants – this is because some police districts cut the average. Now I don't argue in any way to cut the police posts in the police districts that have more than two per 1,000, but it's important for the Central Party that the target of 2 per 1,000 benefits the whole country. Another issue I think is that when we debate this issue, the imbalance that has developed between police positions and civil positions in the police is important. There have been cases in the media about police officers sorting mail because it is no longer civilly added to do such support tasks. The statistics show a police position, but don't say anything about what this police position does. The sibling settings scope covers a large area. What goes on during the survey is seen as very different, but is a very important competence for the police to hold. The change in the crime scene in recent years requires police to bring in people with different backgrounds in the investigation. It may relate to civil choices with economic, IT, engineering, psychology, statistics or analysis competence. The police must be able to acquire such competence where they think it is necessary. It requires, first of all, that the police have financial room for action to do such priorities, but it also requires an analysis of the police’s future tasks and capacity needs. This may be a theme that we'll come back to another day, but I also need to be given a short chance to refer to the prosecution authority. When the police get more police positions, the prosecution authority must also follow. It's not always that we politicians are just as good at pointing at this particular thing. Once again, it's about balance. When a plan on how the police will look in the future, it needs to focus on getting more police force out of police positions. At the same time, the police must have the possibility of assigning the necessary competences to people in civil positions. It's important. The target of two per 1,000 is an important guide. At the same time, we can't have tunnel vision where this is the only goal. We also need to see the big picture and make sure that the police have a good composition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2060	It goes toward the end of a long day, so I stumbled in the stairs. Thank you very much to the interpellant Jan Bøhler for a very important recording. I think it is absolutely essential that we discuss the role of the police and also the size of the police force. This, of course, is a debate that belongs in the main hall. Who else is going to discuss the police – the size and scope – than us? The police are precisely our means of power; they have monopoly of violence. It is quite obvious that this is a debate that belongs here. The interesting thing is that crime in Norway is going down, so why are we going to have more policemen? We have to ask ourselves questions about that. What are we going to do with more policemen when crime goes down? The easiest answer to that would be that then we need fewer policemen, not more. The answer to this is that crime is falling in many areas, but is increasing in some areas, and the areas where crime is increasing require a different type of resource and more policemen. Had the traditional crime continued as it was before, we would have actually needed fewer policemen, no more. But the new crime scene is different and requires slightly different types of resources. Personally, I have no relation to the number two per 1000 – it was introduced in this house before my time – or one per 500. That sounds like a lot to me. Our decision is one per 1,500. But that's the way it is. Nevertheless, I agree with the intention. The problems we discussed in the previous interview are so extensive, and in the reports from the police themselves they say they can't solve these problems, where women are mainly the victims, without more resources. Obviously, there are internal organisational challenges, too, but all the police I'm talking to are talking about resources. I think it is absolutely essential in this debate that we distinguish between police and civil education. It is important – and this is for the representative of Bøhler – that it is not the Police College and the Police Union that are to preside over this debate. Changes in the crime scene probably require a slightly different type of police. When I use the word 'police people', it's not necessarily about police trainers. It may well be a socionomist, a criminologist or a computer engineer from NTNU who is an expert on data crime or online crime and child abuse, etc. These are also policemen, and the increase in police force is likely to occur in these areas, because it responds better to the new crime scene we are actually facing. That is why I also disagree with the demands of the Joint Police Association that they should have a kind of job guarantee for the police students. I believe that it must be up to the management of each police district to find out what kind of competence we need: do we need one with traditional police training from the Police College, or do we need to strengthen the resources of the children's home with a psychologist or a sociologist? There has to be a local decision, so that the growth of the police doesn't necessarily have to take the form of people from the Police College. The debate on the number of people we might have to be a little careful with, because the debate on the number of people shifts the focus a little away from the most important discussion, and that's how we prioritise internally. We can't solve these new problems that we've discussed thoroughly in the last hour, just by looking at the number; we actually have to look at what the police are prioritizing internally. I want to warn you a little bit about focusing too much on the number. We need to have a discussion about what they're prioritizing, and how we get to the conversion internally of the resources we actually have today. And the resources we have today must be converted to solve the crime scene we are facing today. This was in the previous interpellation debate, but I mention it now anyway, because I believe that the disposal of the resources we actually have now is a very important discussion as the debate on how many there should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2075	I would like to thank you for your contributions, which were interesting. There's perhaps one point I'd like to mention to the representative Gulati in connection with his posts, and actually also to what the Council of State said in the last post before the representatives of the big business: that you're about to reach the goal, so you take down the number of students from the high school of police. I think it's more right with the opposite order, that you first do an assessment, an analysis, of what you'll need to do in the future, before you take the number you're training down. If you don't do it on a very uncertain basis. We need a better basis for such major decisions. There is no one in Norway now – I think – in some of the police districts, in the population, which means that we have too many policemen. On the contrary, there are dramatic calls for the police to do more on the one hand and on the other, and there are long remaining lists in all the police districts other than one. There are major deficiencies in the investigation and implementation of a number of very serious issues, which we have also been dealing with here today. So I think you should have gone forward in the reverse order. As far as the representative Eide referred to on statistics: I was myself in debates here in the Stortingen when we were in government, where I referred to statistics from the 1990s. I would say that since the 1990s, if you look at the general national statistics, the total crime rates have been pointing downwards. This is because the crime scene varies, changes, and so on. The number of drug-crime cases depends on the number of cases initiated by the police. That's what makes the statistics, it's police-initiated things it's based on. But I'm glad that the representative Eide said, that the forms of crime are changing, that the issues are becoming more complicated and more demanding for the police to work with, things about, for example. economic crime, organized crime, criminal gangs and violence in close relationships, where few people will testify against their parents, against their families, and it is difficult to get things out of hand. What I would like to draw attention to is that it is an important option for us when the majority of people have now cut off their training in the police. It's going to be an important choice we're going to make in terms of this in the years to come. We cannot solve this just with priorities, it is also about the capacity of the police – if we are to be fair to the Norwegian police.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2086	With the upcoming big message, I intend to invite you to a debate on both the capacity, content and priority of education. I think it's an interesting debate, and I hope we can get back to it. I have to say on a slightly more general basis that sitting and listening to some of the opposition's posts – where it is that no matter what the target is, a representative from the Workers' Party would like to say that it should be higher, and no matter what the government's budget proposal, they want it to be higher – to become a little boring. It's going to be a little bit mechanical, and it's going to be a little bit of an autonomous answer. Whatever the question is, the figures should be higher and better, and everything should be met with more resources. In this way, I think it was more interesting to hear the comments from the representative, Eide, who wanted to discuss what content and what kind of composition police education should have. I think that's an important question. That question should be based on the very challenge of seeing a change in crime. And it might go faster and faster than we thought. At least there's a new type of crime being revealed. Part of it may not only be a change in crime; part of it is also that the new police reform makes us discover crime we haven't uncovered before. We then face issues of both competence and priority, but of course also of capacity and resources. My wish for the future is not to remove the debate on capacity and resources, but it becomes a little boring if all the debate is just about it – and you don't want to discuss educational content and how it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2102	The debate on substance is closed. So 12 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2128	We live in a small corner of the world that has probably been shielded from some of the challenges that are more common elsewhere, including on the European continent. But several of these challenges have now become more and more part of everyday life also in Norway, and not least in our dear capital. The increase in juvenile delinquency and the picture we've seen in the rest of the world, perhaps especially in the last two years, is what characterizes us all, and that contributes to uncertainty, perhaps especially among the people who live in those parts of Oslo where this has been most prevalent. We know that much of this is related to immigration and integration challenges, social challenges and exclusion, that many ports are outside the school system and therefore become part of environments that we do not want. This is very worrying. We have seen a kind of raw, brutal crime also develop among young people down to the age of 14 to 15 – the age of 12 to 13 – who are also involved in crime, are part of the gang, and are cynically used because of their low age, and who know that they are used for that reason. These are people without respect for law, order or authority. The type of crime we've seen now is both raw and brutal and of a different kind than before. I think many of the tools Norway has had have been aimed at a different type of crime, namely, young people who have made a mistake or two in life, but then they need to be helped back to a more normal way of life for young people, without the early mistakes of their whole lives. But it's a different type of crime than what we're seeing now, which is that people of early age almost get into a career path as repeaters. We have also seen statistics that a relatively large number of young people, including minors, who have a criminal lifestyle, have repeated things on the scroll, including violence against the police. I am pleased that the government has announced more measures and that even more measures have been identified. We need, among other things: looking at new types of sanctions for young people, perhaps something that lies between child protection and prison, because what we need to show is doing these kinds of things, it has to have consequences. I was with the NRK today and a father named Artur, at Lambertseter School. This father has a son who has been subjected for a long time to violence and bullying at his school. In one case a few weeks ago, he was again knocked up. A politician who happened to be at school, trying to intervene and stop the incident, even ended up being suffocated by two 14-year-old boys, and ended up in hospitals. This is a tragic example and a single case, but perhaps also an illustration of a little bit of the raw, brutal crime we've seen developing among some youth environments in parts of Oslo, and for which we need new tools. I have promoted this interpellation to challenge the Minister of Justice to see if there are more measures – in addition to the measures and investigations already launched and which we naturally wish to welcome – that they consider necessary to tackle the worrying picture we see especially in Oslo south and east.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2143	As youth crime is now increasing after many years of decline, it is necessary that we rapidly adopt the necessary measures to reverse the trend. Furthermore, it is totally unacceptable that criminal gangs develop and create insecurity in some neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods. The concern is greatest for the eastern districts of Oslo, especially in the south of Oslo. In a number of major cities in Europe, we have seen an increasing challenge of juvenile delinquency, reproductions, conflicts between different criminal environments and shooting episodes in public space. We're not going further than to our neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark until we see an alarming number of settlements and shootings between criminal communities. It is important for me to make it clear that we are not near such a state either in Oslo or in larger urban areas outside Oslo. However, when we look at developments in other countries, including our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Denmark, there is still reason to give priority to prevention and combating efforts now. We need to be in the forefront to prevent a similar situation – to which we may sometimes see trends – but as I said, we are not yet in the very serious situation that we have in our neighbouring countries. Therefore, in the State budget for 2019, the government has proposed that it be set at 50 million. kr to a specific package to strengthen efforts against juvenile crime and gangs. The funds are proposed divided into three main components: strengthening child protection efforts by 10 million. kr, to strengthen the work of the conflict councils, including the alternative criminal justice responses to juvenile sentences and youth follow-up, by 16 million. NOK 24 million, and to strengthen the police. SEK, of which 16 million. kr to be spent in the Oslo area and SEK 8 million. kr to strengthen the efforts of the special organs Kripos and Økokrim. At the same time, resources are deployed at different levels, ranging from early efforts to actions against established reprehensibles. Efforts must be made at the same time in the prevention track and in the criminal proceedings trail. The proposed strengthening of child protection is important in order to ensure that they can get early on with measures that can create lasting positive changes for children and young people in the risk zone and their families. The strengthening of the conflict councils shall contribute to the faster and closer follow-up of young people who have committed serious and repeated crime, including young people who are being subjected to the reactions of juvenile sentences and youth follow-up. The conflict councils have a criminal enforcement responsibility and it is important to strengthen their capacity to do this. The strengthening of the police covers the breadth from early efforts to sharper instruments against established gang members and backers. The prevention of youth in the risk zone shall be reinforced, with the aim of preventing recruitment into criminal relay environments. In particular, the effort will be linked to the Oslo area, where a specific challenge has been identified in the last year. But we also see trends in other urban areas in Norway. The police themselves have pointed to the link between juvenile delinquency and poor growing-up conditions with violence and family abuse. Therefore, the November police project is to be continued and expanded in 2019 to cover several parts of Oslo East. In addition, better investigation and prosecution capacity shall be invested in the area of violence in close relations. At the same time, efforts against the established criminal communities and behindrs shall be intensified by strengthening Kripos and Ecocrim. These national environments have specific competences and capacities related to the serious and organised crime, profit-based crime and international crime. In the 2019 state budget, the funds for the specific police operations in Oslo South will also be continued at 30 million. kr and Oslo in the inner east by 7 mill. kr. In particular, they shall be used to prevent prevention and to prevent recruitment into criminal relay environments. These funds shall be seen in conjunction with other resources allocated as part of the territorial effort initiated here in cooperation between the State and the Municipality of Oslo. This year, the Ministry of Justice and Security asked the conflict councils, the police and the National Attorney General to make brief and longer-term calls for action to prevent and combat repeat crime. This has been important to get a proper picture of the current situation. Some inputs to actions have already been included in the specific package of the 2019 State Budget, others require legislative or regulatory changes. The Ministry has therefore started work on assessing possible legislative changes. There will later be a need for a wide-ranging consultation. It is too early to say a little more about when the government will be able to promote a proposition with proposals for legislative changes, for the Stortinget. Several of the recordings that have been made are about how we meet young people who commit serious and/or repeated crime, including in a context related to repeat crime. This may in practice be about whether the responses available are used in a sufficiently good way. It may also be a question of whether there is a need to extend the scope for different reactions or the need for further reactions. We have to think about this anew. At the same time, there are certain fundamental principles that apply. The criminal lavalry controls the responses that society has to respond to. Furthermore, prisons for children should only be used in special cases when all other alternatives have been assessed and found inadequate. The Ministry has received input on the use of alternative criminal responses to juvenile punishment and follow-up. These reactions entered into force on 1 July 2014. Nordic research is carrying out a follow-up evaluation of the new responses. The Ministry has received an en route report and will receive the final report in spring 2019. The recordings received by the Ministry from the actors in the criminal case chain, together with the follow-up evaluation, will provide a very good knowledge base for any adjustment of the reactions. We also need to look into whether we have the resources and means necessary to combat the established communities and the serious and organised crime they commit. In addition to punishing the criminal acts carried out, we must be able to hit the profit of the environments from illegal crime. If we want to take advantage of it, we also remove the status of these environments. The Government, through its commitment to the 2019 State Budget proposal and the work undertaken to assess legislative changes, has taken important steps to increase efforts to combat juvenile crime and recriminalism. This is a challenge that we have to give top priority to. I will follow developments in this area closely in the future, and I expect to see the results of the steps taken. However, it is important to take more action at the same time, both to grant money over the budget and to see if there is juvenile punishment and youth follow-up that works for the most serious repetitions, and whether the police have the necessary legislation and powers to combat the most serious recriminality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2168	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the answer, and it is reassuring to see that more measures are being taken that, hopefully, will have an impact. As the Minister of Justice also says, the situation in Oslo is not as bad as elsewhere, fortunately, but what we see today, and as we have seen in the last two to three years, is quite different from what we are used to in Norway and Oslo. A term that has been widely used in the debate is so-called Swedish states. Fortunately, that's something we don't have in Oslo, but we don't get away from seeing examples and trends of so-called Swedish states, which creates insecurity among the population. Nor can we escape what are the underlying reasons why some of these problems have been created. Much of this is related to poor integration and, in particular, to high levels of immigration in some parts of the capital. I am therefore pleased that the government has now also said to protect Oslo – and elsewhere with a particularly high proportion of immigrants – for the settlement of refugees in the situation we now have, where there will be few asylum seekers in Norway. To close the eyes to the relationship between high immigration and some of these challenges resulting from poor integration and emerging things, errors are made. We have been lucky in Norway that has avoided some of the major problems that have been common elsewhere in Europe for many years, but if we make the same mistakes as these countries do, we cannot expect another result. The Minister of Justice has said several times that they are trying in Oslo and Norway to solve something that almost nobody else has done. I believe that we will be able to reverse the trend with both juvenile crime and a number of other things in Oslo, but that will require political action – and that we dare to address and correct the factors surrounding immigration and integration that have created just these problems in a number of places. We need action in a number of areas. We need prevention measures, where we are already very good. The Justice Committee visited Oslo police district last week and was told that there are now 80 preventers only in the east of Oslo. It is important, but we also need strong measures against the hard-boiled gangs and the juvenile criminals who are already in a criminal lifestyle.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2181	The established nightlife environments in Oslo with serious crime in itself do not include so many people. I have a great deal of faith that with proper legislative changes and proper instruments and resources you will succeed in punishing them. What concerns me, however, is one of the things that the representative was about, that if you have 15 members, maybe 150 will be the next generation members. That is the great concern. There are some juvenile delinquency growing, with repeaters related to some areas, and if these are allowed to organize themselves as established gene communities, we have a challenge. That is why it is important to use so much resources in youth settings — down to child protection — where we can see that some of these problems occur. I also agree with Mr Gulati that we should be open and honest here; it is also linked to integration challenges. That's it in Oslo east, and so is it in the rest of Europe. Unfortunately, when we look around the rest of the European cities, we find no major cities that have actually succeeded. So our challenge is to succeed in something that no one else has ever done before, and it's a cross of thought for us. In Sweden, more than 300 shooting episodes were held last year. It's a serious high number. We're not there in Norway, but we're going to try to concentrate the efforts of child protection, from juveniles to criminals, to new legislative changes and have a broad front in order to succeed in an area with which very few other big cities in Europe have succeeded, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2192	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this matter, which engages many people around the neighbourhood of Oslo. And it's also important to note in terms of numbers over how many are involved in this, that in any case there are few. But at the same time, there is a culture in these environments to avoid talking to the police, not to keep quiet, not to report, so that the figures we have over reported conditions are uncertain about the activity we live in these areas, know and still hear about. The police told the Justice Committee when we were visiting there that they were concerned about these juvenile criminal environments. The police have said that these environments exist at least five to seven places in Oslo, and that they lack impulse control, and that they are therefore carrying out, among other things. some serious acts of violence that we have not seen happen in the same way – or seen as much of it – in the past. So I'm glad we can talk about it. I would like to use an example, one I have had contact with for several years. He has stood out publicly, in the media, most recently in Utrop today, with his history. His name is Nahom, and I have had contact with him since he was a childer and was taken for it; he operated in my community, in the upper part of the Groruddalen. I think it's important to be able to learn from one story to see concretely what it is that we can do. He received a juvenile punishment for having been a child tern in a child-rearing environment, a juvenile-criminal community, you might say. He says, and those who have followed him up, say, that that juvenile punishment was very difficult to fill with content. There was no offer, there was no kind of cooperation with other actors in the municipality/city so that you could shape some content in that juvenile punishment. It does not help to judge anyone for juvenile punishment if no concrete content is actually established on what to do in return for the punishment. He has also mentioned to me – and we have also included it in a proposal here on the Stortinget that we will consider later – that we lack a proper exit programme, a programme that is complete and not just a few measures, which can make them manage to get out of the environment, to avoid all these commitments, all the loyalty, all the revenges and things that lie there. You almost have to be a hero to get out of it if you stay in these environments and meet everyone for the day. Nahom has been subjected to two attacks with knives, machetes, now on the late summer/harvest, and only because of his ability to deal with things in those environments has he been able to get quite completely away. But it's very serious, and there's few things to do in this and get out of it if they're not in the exit program, which is much better, and which is something quite different than the little single measures we have today. Nahom also suggested to me – which we have followed up after having had contact with the police in Oslo, who have also suggested it – that we add the weapon most used in these youth environments, machete, which is so easy to obtain in sports shops in Oslo for NOK 300 – 1000. ; that it is added to the knives which are not allowed to be acquired and held in Norway. There are other types of knives, such as batang knives, carambit knives, etc., and we suggest adding machete. Nahom also says that we must have sanctions against those who simply continue to commit crime – as he sees around them – despite the fact that they receive juvenile punishment, youth follow-up. The Council of State also mentioned that there is youth follow-up, juvenile punishment that is the main track for them between 15 and 18 years of age, but for those who are chronic, who are not able to stop the means and do not care about them, we need to have juvenile units in criminal care that can get them out of the environment and build up a different situation for them. There are many successful experiences from the four youth places that are on Eidsvoll and the four that are in Bergen, but we would suggest that more places be created. It was added to 14 by the red-green government. It's not a big increase, but the police think we need more capacity. I also want to end by saying that that is possible. I was with Nahom at the City Hall about a week and a half ago, where he received a letter as a youth worker. He's gotten out of it. But we need to learn from the experience of how heavy and difficult it is, and what we should do here on the Stortinget in order to help more people who can commit serious juvenile delinquency, out of it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2209	Let me first say that I hope the Council of State will consider the proposals and ideas that Jan Bøhler now put forward, about a stronger reaction to them from 15 to 18 years of age than it is now, so that as early as possible you get a clear signal that this is not acceptable. It is, of course, the usual child education that somehow you have to make sure that children at different ages are informed about what is acceptable and what is not, and then there must be some kind of reaction that is somehow unpleasant. In this interpellation from Himanshu Gulati, which I think is very fine, the question of whether the word ‘youth crime’ should have been replaced by ‘migrant juvenile delinquency’ or ‘minority juvenile delinquency’. In other words, are we facing a youth problem, or are we facing an integration problem? When you're going to take action against something that's not the way it should be, we need to know what it is, and what group we're going to be concerned about. Last year there were several newspaper reports about 151 repeaters in these gangs operating in Oslo, and it is – and was then – almost impossible to know who the 151 are. Are there many young people of Norwegian and different countries — or the origin of their parents — or are there any common denominators among the 151? Then everyone said, "We don't know, we don't have statistics on, for example, ethnic basis. Because of course, if it turned out that of the 151, 140 were children and young people of immigrant parents and 11 of Norwegians, yes, we would have an integration problem and could start discussing it. If it had been evenly distributed among all the young people, we would have had a youth problem. It's like when a doctor has to diagnose a person who's sick – then you have to know what to do, and what are the necessary medications. So I'm going to ask the Council of State to make sure that we keep some statistics and overview for the future, so that we can identify. I believe that the common denominator here is primarily young people from immigrant families. Then we have to do something about integration, and then we have to do something early. Maybe there's another common denominator, whether it's a particular country of origin the parents come from, or it's a special culture, or it's a special religion. So we're going to have to try to identify as much as possible in order to deploy instruments as early as possible. In Oslo City Council, we have proposed the creation of a separate integration office that can coordinate the prevention work, which is now completely broken. Child protection does its own, schools do their own, kindergartens do their own, sports do their own, youth clubs do their own, but no one can early identify that this little child is in a family type and in a kind of environment that allows us to predict that it's going to go wrong. One of the things that should make sense is getting a language mapping: Are there parents who make sure that a child aged 2-3 has a plan to learn Norwegian before they start school? With a home visit, which is already carried out after a child is born, it would be possible to check if there are plans for this child to learn Norwegian before it starts school. The vast majority would be able to say and explain that it is going well. However, if parents do not think it is important for a small child to become Norwegian and learn Norwegian language and practice, then it has been identified that already here one should take care of and give advice and advice and help and assistance. And to the few parents where it is necessary to say that we do not accept that they oppose their children becoming Norwegian and having this as their own country, different instruments can be used. You can make sure that your children go to kindergarten, which you now have legal access to impose, and make sure to follow up the few families where, based on experience, you have found that there is a great opportunity for this child to go wrong if we don't do anything active from early on. Today, no one is coordinating all these different levels and is mainstreaming. And there's also one thing I'd like to ask the Council of State to consider, whether he can't do anything, at the earliest possible time, if there's a common denominator among those who end up as juvenile criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2224	I want to thank the interpellant for addressing this topic. This is a sad thing we're still coming back to, and it's precisely because the evolution we see in parts of the capital is so serious. First of all, I would like to say that I think it is positive that the government party has seen the counter-crime in focus, and I understand that this is a demanding and complex field for the police to deal with – not least because it concerns so many minors who are at risk of establishing a criminal lifestyle, or who are already doing this well. It must be stressed that it is not a job for the police alone to fight against recriminalism. Other establishments must also be involved in this work locally. But the efforts of the police in the form of prevention, rapid reaction and follow-up are a decisive part of this struggle. I mean, it's important to bet on the local police, also in Oslo. Police must be present locally in the district, and they must know the environment and individuals involved. A week ago, the VG published the contents of a classified document in which a police special group called for an alarm to be issued against gangs. The letter states that the police are missing an overview of the crime scene in which central gang members are involved. It also states that the work that is going on today does not have a desired effect. One has put in tens of millions of dollars to work against recrime, but, as the letter says, the police lack research capacity. I hope the Council of State understands that this is alarming for us who have been given the right many times that the situation is under control, and that there should be a better overview of the rest environment now than before. The fact that the police cannot have a complete overview of everything happening at any given time, most of them will understand. What is particularly worrying, however, is that there is no consistency between the letter and the signals we have received from the Council of State that the situation should be under control. I would like the Council of State to tell me if he has received any other input from the police about how the effort against recrime crime can be organised in a better way, and I also hope that he can say something about how he actually follows up this point that is pointed out in the letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2239	We're a few left in the hall, but we're still discussing an important topic. We definitely have to take juvenile delinquency seriously, but it has to be based on knowledge and documentation and not on myths and false premises. We're going to use the police, we're going to use prevention, and we're definitely going to use social measures. When I say it that way initially, it's because the premise of this interpellation is actually wrong, or at least very imprecise. Crime among young people in Oslo has risen in the last two years, but it was much worse ten years ago. It has not only increased in the last two years, but this increase has been marginal – a slight increase: from 2016, 5.8 pst. Among young people under 18 years of age, crime increased to 6.4 pst, an increase from 5.8 pst. to 6.4 pst. in two years. But in 2007, the number was 8.4 pst, a small increase also among a limited group. Due to a lot of attention around this in winter and spring last year, the police together with the municipality introduced a number of measures. The representative Gulati can read in the VG 9 September, where the police report that there has never been so little crime in the Groruddalen as in the summer of 2018 – not ‘never’, it is wrong, but it has been very peaceful in the Groruddalen – and the police themselves report that it is due to good cooperation between the police and the municipality, which the Minister of Justice has also explained here. Premiss No. 2 which is the basis for the interpellation is that there is uncertainty among the population because of this. Where in the world did he get this? Is this his personal experience when he meets people around who have experienced this, or is it the documented, knowledge-based thing? In the municipality's own public opinion poll, which was presented not long ago, Oslo has a separate chapter on security. I can show the representative Gulati these numbers later. It appears that the audience in Oslo experiences the city as safer and safer. They experience the center as safer than last year and the year before there. They experience external urban areas as safer, both in the evening and in the daytime. So the premise that is presented, that people are walking around and afraid, is wrong. It's the representative Gulati who creates this impression. The documentation from those who actually go in and look at it cannot refer to it. I think we should definitely take the increase in juvenile delinquency in the last two years seriously, but we should do it knowledge-based, not myth-based, and definitely not based on subversive political motives. I suspect the Advance Party to want to make a story about Oslo as a dangerous city. It is important for the Progress Party to tell the story of Oslo as a dangerous city, because in this way they can create a heavy basis for their immigration-restrictive policy, and we have heard that here today; both the representative Gulati and the representative Hagen have justified youth crime – the small increase – with immigration. They need to draw a picture of Oslo as a dangerous city to justify their immigration policy and to justify more weapons to the police, but also to justify stricter penalties, which have also emerged in the debate today. If you want to achieve these three things that I mentioned, you have to vote in favour – that Oslo is a dangerous city. Oslo is not a dangerous city. He can't prove that Oslo has become a more dangerous city for most people in Oslo. As for the link between immigration and juvenile crime, as both Carl I. Hagen and Himanshu Gulati have mentioned, I'm going to be involved in discussing it if they can prove it. The evidence showed that all immigrant groups in Norway have this criminal gene in them, which causes them to create such a threat. I can also tell from other reports that there are more immigrant groups in Oslo who are less criminal than the average population – some are more, others are actually smaller. It is an important discussion to discuss immigration and crime, but we need to make sure that it is also knowledge-based and based on evidence, not a subservient political debate for anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2259	I would like to thank you for a lot of good input into this debate, and I also note that the last speaker denies some of the issues and premises that have led to the interpellation. I wonder if the representative will at all follow the same media that I and many others have done in the last year. There has been no lack of examples and statistics of a new type of raw and brutal crime among a group of people. There have been several public meetings, battles at T-Bahn stations and elsewhere, several shooting episodes in a few days. There have been many examples of people standing up and expressing concern about the situation in their neighbourhoods. In some schools in this city, there are now also private security guards and metal detectors due to uncertainty. So finding examples of this uncertainty is not difficult, but I have to say I'm a little surprised that the representative Eide hasn't got the same concerns. Fortunately, we do not have Swedish states in Norway – although I understand that everyone can put different things into that concept – but it is not possible to get away from seeing more and more examples and trends of the kind of adverse events and conditions that we have seen in Sweden and other countries. The type of trends and examples that have also occurred in Oslo. What we want is to put an end to this before it evolves and becomes as bad as anywhere else. Albert Einstein said that madness is doing the same thing over and over and expecting a completely different result. When I address immigration in this debate, it is because I feel that the anxiety about the topic has caused the situation to go from bad to worse and have become partially irreversible in some other countries — for example. in Sweden, where, because of the lack of courage to deal with the problems early enough, they have developed until much longer. I am very pleased with the measures that have been taken. We're going to prevent, we're going to deploy resources within both child protection, school, police — all of these things. But my point is that it does not help to put resources in place to solve the challenges we now see, if at the same time we do not dare to talk about and address the underlying causes – immigration, poor integration, which are reinforced by ghettoization – and when you see a very high concentration of immigrant population in certain parts of the city, when the pressure is so strong. If we are to be able to deal with the situation in heavily burdened urban areas in Oslo today, we also need to ease the pressure by having a more controlled immigration into these areas in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2270	The representative Eide said something that I really agree with: it is important to have a knowledge-based debate and know what the starting point is. In that way, I did not hear a contradiction to what Carl I. Hagen said, I realized that the representative Hagen wanted more knowledge and more numbers. I share both the starting point of Mr Eides and Mr Hagen, that it is important to know what we are talking about, and it is important to get the numbers we can get. We know a little about the SALTO report from the police and the municipality. We could probably have had better numbers, but of the 2017 figures for what was said were repeated repeaters, which had been followed over several years, 34 out of a total of 36 had foreign parents, and only one had parents who were both ethnically Norwegian. Of these 34, we also see another interesting thing -- and it's also part of the knowledge building -- and it was that 25 of them had criminal relations before they were 15 years old, that is, under the criminal lavalier, and they were actually registered with, I think, 255 relationships together. It's also interesting, because it points to another important part of the knowledge building, that you have to start early. This is a challenge that starts very early, and that's why we probably have a lot to pick up here on prevention. Then it is important that we both use resources and look at laws and regulations at all levels, i.e. children, young people and adults. After we have provided in this State budget money to combat recriminalism among both children and young people, we will follow up with changes in the law. We're going to look at child protection. It's obvious that we need something for those under 18 and maybe even under 15. We need to see if the obligation of professional secrecy prevents the police, children's, school and social affairs from cooperating well enough on the youngest. We have to look at youth, if we can have a quick response. It's a matter of resources, but it's also a question of whether we need all the consents that are needed from young people to deploy resources. We need to see if we need more places in juvenile prisons. And we have to look at the most serious part, which is recriminalism, where it's natural to also consider membership in gangs, and where it's natural to consider better the possibility of withdrawing dividends. Because, in addition to these youth challenges, we see that what is happening in some other countries is that foreign residents come directly into the big cities and take up the fight for the drug market. So we really have to have several things in our head at once, and I think it's a very reasonable starting point to say that we're going to try to approximate this knowledge-based.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2282	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2294	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2466	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2476	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2501	During the debate, Mr Vågslid has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up and implement an overall plan to ensure the transparency and coordinated follow-up of the individual departments of the international monitoring bodies’ recommendation to Norway on human rights.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2538	It's said over III. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2552	It is then voted over I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2864	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2874	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2913	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2924	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2934	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 3-6, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting with a comprehensive review of public upgrading schemes, which specifically examines the groups not covered by the schemes and assess the manner in which they should be incorporated or covered by other schemes.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure equal access to compensation for public failure to a person who was a child at the time of the failure, irrespective of where the person resides in the country, and to establish, if necessary, a national compensation scheme or national legislation for municipal schemes.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to return to the Grand Duchy with proposals to coordinate the law on compensation with the rules on limitation in criminal law, so that the claims for compensation do not expire before any criminal proceedings are brought.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Grand Duchy’s judicial compensation scheme is better known and better informed as a compensation scheme.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e2978	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a review of the various municipal and county settlement settlements and compensation schemes in order to gain an overview of potential problematic discrimination.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e3002	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with a comprehensive review of public upgrading schemes, which specifically looks at which groups are not covered by the schemes and assesses whether they should be included.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens' Greens' Greens' Party have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e3025	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Guro Angell Gimse on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate access to reasonable legal assistance and first-line legal assistance locally, for example through the establishment of local legal centres which can also provide several legal services under one roof.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision requires the Government to ask the courts to determine actively, in each case, whether it has been ‘reasonable to charge the costs’ in determining the costs of the proceedings.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e3059	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government in the ongoing investigation of the legal aid scheme to return to the Stortinget with its follow-up measures to improve its efficiency and effectiveness.’ The Left, the Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e3106	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e3118	In Case No: No voting theme is available from 11 to 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-04.ana.ud66e3132	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
