ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e69	Honourable co-representatives! On January 9th, the former depositor, Odvar Nordli, left Stange, 90 years old. He represented the Workers' Party and Hedmark for six periods at Stortinget – from 1961 to 1985. During this time he was among others. Member and Vice-Chairman of the Municipal Committee, Chairman of the Social Committee, Member of the Committee on Transport, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Agriculture and Defence. From the spring of 1971 to the autumn of 1972 he was Minister of Local and Labour in Trygve Bratteli's first government, and for five years – from 1976 to 1981 – he was Prime Minister of Norway. Odvar Nordli's heart beat for the little ones in society, but in our political history he remains standing as one of the big ones. He grew up in the middle-war and occupation times of Norway, in a working family in the divided Heathland. Here his social exposure was aroused, here he attached himself to the work movement and went to his school in organizational work, and here he always had his belongings. Nordli described himself as a ‘political craftsman’ and there are many milestones after his craftsmanship. The Working Environment Act, the Health Pay Scheme and the Self-Defined Abortion Act came into place during his reign. At the same time, he was prime minister for a demanding breakup. The recession in the world economy called for a government and a party that refused to compromise on the demand for work for all. It called war and nuclear policy also created domestic political tensions internally in the party, with conflict and shared leadership. The relatively new line of conflict on growth and protection as well as increased self-esteem and pride in our Sami population peaked in the battle around the Alta-Cautokeino expansion. As a politician and statesman, Nordli deserves our respect for what he was doing, and our gratitude for all the good he's done. Today we remember not least the wise and warm man with the moody humor, who never forgot where he came from, and who he represented. We bring peace to Odvar Nordli's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e94	The representatives of Ingunn Foss, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Per Olaf Lundtigen, Jenny Klinge and Heidi Nordby Lunde, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative of Terje Aasland will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e116	It is a pleasure for me to promote a proposal by the representatives of the big business Maria Aasen-Svensrud, Dag Terje Andersen, Arild Grande and myself to ensure that there is no race to the bottom of Nordic passenger traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e121	The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e126	On behalf of the representatives of Oluk V. Bollestad, Tore Storehaug, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold and myself, I am delighted to propose a proposal for national guidelines on access for children's and youth organisations to the use of schools and other public spaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e131	The representative of Ivar Odnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e137	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives Siv Mossleth, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and myself on the need assessment and design of a health certificate for drivers over 75 years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e142	The representative, Siv Mossleth, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e147	On behalf of the representatives of Steinar Ness, Ivar Odnes and myself, I want to promote a representative proposal for a better flight offer across the country through a change in air charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e152	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e157	On behalf of the representatives of the population of Ingvild Kjerkol, Kjersti Toppe, Nicholas Wilkinson, Olug V. Bollestad, Per Espen Stoknes, the Bears of Moxnes and myself, I have the pleasure of promoting a proposal to ensure a good follow-up of people after drug treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e162	The representative, Mr Reiten, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e167	On behalf of the representative Tore Storehaug and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative not to grant extraction permits in particularly valuable and vulnerable areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e172	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e177	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Freddy André Øvstegård, Karin Andersen, Sverre Myrli, Siv Henriette Jacobsen, Nils Kristen Sandtrøen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to draw up draft selections for new sections of the Norwegian railways for the Oslo-Stockholm and Oslo-Gøteborg sections.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e182	The representative, Per Espen Stoknes, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e187	I am delighted to present a proposal on behalf of a somewhat unusual composition, consisting of the representatives of Gisle Meininger Saudland, Lene Westgaard-Halle, Ketil Kjeseth and myself, on the preparation of a detailed legislation for opening and awarding concessions in sea wind. I also enjoy promoting a proposal on behalf of myself to introduce better targets for a green, smart and innovative Norway in line with the OECD Green Growth Indicator Set.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e195	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e215	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e224	As the rapporteur on the matter, I would first like to thank the Committee on good cooperation. I would also like to thank Mr Sameting's representatives, who met the Committee on 9 January, for a good dialogue and for valuable input into the position we are discussing here today. I would like to underline the basis for the special relationship between Sometinge and Stortinge. It is laid down in the Constitution that the Norwegian authorities have a responsibility to facilitate the security and development of their language, culture and society by the Sami People's Party. Samemen is an indigenous people who have the right to special cultural protection under international law. I'm glad to say that the Sametinge takes care of the Sami cultural heritage and the Sami interests in a good way. The consolidation also contributes to the proper management of conflicts arising from time to time. The pooling manages significant responsibilities and appropriations. In 2016, a total allocation of 437.6 million was granted. kr, where the operating costs at the political and administrative level were close to 144 million. kr. It is an increase from 2015 to 2016 that is roughly equal to the increase in the State budget for other purposes. The merger has given rise to problems and has given rise to frustration over the allocation of appropriations for Sami purposes to seven departments. The merger seeks a budgetary model that allows for greater priority to be given to common policies within a given budgetary framework. The size has asked for a review of the budget model for the Sameting, which will bring the appropriations together to a greater extent. No later than the end of the 2018 budget committee, support was given to the work on amendments to the current budget model. I welcome the signals given that the Sameting and the Ministry have come to an agreement on a new budget model, which is more in keeping with the wishes of the Sameting. Sami languages are under pressure. Language is one of the most important areas of the work of the Sameting. In October 2016, the Sami language selection provided its public investigation, which was named Heart Language. This has been at the hearing of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. It refers to 140 hearings. The merger has dealt with this situation and, in its decisions, states that emphasis must be placed on strong language efforts towards children, that more public spaces for languagevitation must be established, and that the State is obliged to take positive specific measures to ensure linguistic equivalence. A representative proposal on Southern Sami language, culture and industry was discussed for some time. Once again, I would like to stress the importance of Southern Sami becoming a major part of the follow-up to the Heart Language. The Committee notes that the annual report of the Liaison Committee refers to major construction matters which have not been resolved. New construction to the Sámi Nationaleater has been called for for a long time, but not even the project has been completed. Southern Sami cultural centre and museum, Saemien Sijte, at Snåsa, have been completed without any start-up allocation. In the Central Party's budget for the current year, we've spent $13 million. kr as a start-up grant. Other parties have also prioritised this, but unfortunately not the government. It's time for the Saemi Sijte to be realized. I understand the impatience that is spreading in the Sami environments. Natural resources are the main basis of the Sami business community and are important for the Sami cultural heritage. Exploitation of natural resources has created conflicts. The Committee notes that the reindeer numbers in Finnmark are now mainly at the level set. After a comprehensive number reduction process, it is important that the reindeer numbers in the areas concerned do not increase again. In 2016, the capital increase adopted a change to the reindeer management law which allows the County to determine an upper rate of reindeer per side when specific reasons so warrant. The Sametinget and the Norwegian Reinbrijtssamer Landsförbund did not reach agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on changes to the Reinbrijtslaw. There was also no agreement in the consultations prior to the government's notification of the wolf in Norwegian nature. The assembly does not want to allow young people or establishments further north. The consultation processes between national authorities and the Sameting do not require a constant agreement, but I share the Ministry's emphasis that the process is an important framework for ensuring the rights of participation in matters relating to them in international law. The Citizen's Committee proposed... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e255	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e260	Thanks to the case rapporteur, who has also managed to assemble the Committee in a few important areas – in my view. The merger has a central role in the work on Sami languages, while the Norwegian authorities have overall responsibilities. The fusion is an important precursor to the development of Sami art and culture. As I said, the starting point is that national authorities have overall responsibilities. The notification shows that there has been a process of bringing together the budget lines of the Sameting into one or less of the budget lines. It's positive. It enables the Sameting to give priority to its issues and actions within a given budgetary framework. It'll be clearer. As I said, we see that there is now agreement on this, and that's good. We look forward to having this put on the table by the Council of State. It is also good for an overall committee to note that the annual report of the Joint Committee refers to major construction issues that have not been resolved, as the case-law rapporteur pointed out. It's Beaivváš, the Sami National Theatre, and Saemien Sijte. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV believe that a more committed plan for the implementation of the Government's projects should be promoted, and it is not good that an overall committee could also support the proposal which these three parties will be promoting today. Then to the consultations. The annual report sets out a separate overview of this. It is stated in the Annual Report that «The Sameting considers that there have been no real consultations» in some cases. In its meeting with the Municipal and Administrative Committee on 9 January this year, it was stated that, when one does not agree with the government that the consultation process is progressing better, this is because the Sametinget believes that the Norwegian authorities – i.e. the government – do not apply the consultation system in some areas as requested by the Sametinget. It is important for the trust and cooperation between Sametinget and the Norwegian authorities that there is an effectively agreed understanding of when and how the consultation mechanism should work. This is not a requirement to agree, it is more a requirement to find out and have confidence that the matters on which it is to be consulted are actually being consulted, so that you do not use the circular bending principle. Appropriations for the Sameting and Sámi objectives have seen a real decline under the Government of Solberg. Such developments exacerbate the possibilities for promoting Sami languages, culture and business, which are very important points. The Workers' Party has significantly strengthened its alternative budgets for both 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 in order to achieve the objective of enhanced language development and the development of Sami culture and industry. I point out that the Workers' Party proposed to strengthen the appropriations for Sami purposes and the Sametinget for 2018 with 79 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. Together, we strengthen the framework for the Sameeting with 35 million. SEK – of the 79 million. kr – which will improve access to Sami educational materials and strengthen work on the repatriation of Sami cultural objects to Sami museums, as examples. We have also proposed a start-up grant for Saemien Sijte of 10 million. kr and a start-up grant to Beaivváš, Sámi Nationaleater, of 10 million. kr. In addition, the Workers' Party also proposed to increase the subsidy rates that municipalities receive for training in Sami by 20 million. kr. So it's an actual reinforcement, which the Workers' Party believes is absolutely necessary in order for us to fulfil our part of the commitment to the whole thing, in order for them to be able to do what is their job. Our proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to promote an obligatory plan for the realisation of Beaivváš Sámi Nationaleater and Saemien Sijte as soon as possible.’ I hope that the Christian People's Party and the government parties can use the hours we now have until voting tonight, to actually seriously consider whether you can go in for that proposal, because it had cleared an old case out of the way, and it had not overturned any government budget. With that, I take up the proposal, which is behind the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, and which has been submitted as a loose proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e289	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e294	First, I would like to thank the case manager and the committee for a thorough job in this matter. We also had a seminar, which several have mentioned, on 9 January with representatives from the Sameting, and for us who were new in the committee, this was a teaching and good round. The conspiracy, as I see it, has evolved over time, and it is today an important arena for democracy and as an organ that fosters good cooperation between the Sami people, the Storting and the government. In the big news, the government indicates that procedures for consultations between state authorities and the Sameting are one of the most important frameworks for ensuring their international rights to participate in matters relating to them. Both the Ministry and the Sametinget indicate that the consultation procedures have strengthened cooperation between the Sametinget and state authorities. It is so great that the Sameting and the government have essentially come to an agreement on the rules of law for consultations. Right has expectations that there will be clear rules as to when and in which matters to conduct consultations and how the consultations will work. A good interaction between the Sami people and authorities has led us here in Norway to a good deal of progress on important issues of common policy. The merger has gradually had an adverse impact on matters relating to the merger. The merger activity in 2016 was extensive, and I want to start by pinking the Sameting for the important effort that was made in a number of areas. So notice, the whole thing is going to do more. The merger has ambitions to further strengthen the efforts in Sami matters and to take an active part in the priorities of collecting the budget in one post, or at least in fewer posts. It's a good character to want such an exposure. The message we are discussing today refers to the consultation between the Sameting department and the Ministry, and that such a message as we are dealing with today may also be more likely to point forward and not just be a story of fact. For the right, this sounds like an exciting development. Having ambitions for common policies and discussing this here in this room we see as important. With such a forward-looking message as outlined by the government, it should be possible to address important issues both on the operational and investment side as a basis for prioritisation. Language has been a challenge for a long time. The Sami languages are very important as cultural bearers. Access to common language competence is a means of preserving the Sami languages for the future. For this reason, it is very good to note that there is agreement between the Department, the Samet and the Sami College that measures are needed to increase the recruitment of Sami teachers in kindergarten and school, and that this has already been effective in increasing the number of applicants for Sami higher education. The message indicates that the follow-up work of the Heart Language is a high priority in the ministry, and that there have been several meetings between the Department and the Sameting on this matter, and it is also very good. The construction of the Sami health park in Karasjok is also well under way. Here, the provision of special health services for somatic, mental health and drug treatment to the Sami population is to be concentrated in one place. More have been involved in the case of Saemien Sijte, who is also very important to the government, and the government has presented this project in the Jeleia Declaration. Both the museum itself and the Sameting have been very impatient in this matter, and the Right now sees the light of government's commitment. That they have raised it in the Yeluia statement is very positive, and we look forward to the further follow-up of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e317	On 6 February 2017, it was a hundred years since the first Sami national meeting was held in Trondheim. The anniversary celebration Tråante 2017 was a day for celebrating Sami culture as an important part of our common Norwegian history. But this was not only a day of celebration and joy; it was also a day of reflection on how the indigenous population has been treated both within and outside the borders of Norway. For 150 years, the people were exposed to a brutal research policy by the governmental powers that must not be forgotten, and I hope this day also focused on the importance of taking care of our common cultural heritage, democracy, justice and diversity. Over a hundred years ago, 150 Sami from Norway and Sweden met in the Methodist Church in Trondheim to discuss the matter. The meeting was the first organized campaign for Sami rights in the Nordic region. Fortunately, much has improved since 1917, but much remains, and perhaps Trouts have contributed to increasing the focus on the importance of preserving Sami culture for the growing generation. Even more important is that we elected people focus on how we can preserve cultural heritage and develop languages and social life. Norway, Sweden and Finland concluded the negotiations on a Nordic co-convention in 2016. The negotiated text of the Convention is to be dealt with in the assemblies. The Convention provides together in the three countries a common legal framework adapted to a Sami-Nordic context. A general objective of the Convention is to maintain, exercise and develop their languages with the least obstacles to cross-border cooperation. The merger has also raised questions about the establishment of a public truth commission on the research of peers. The Progress Party shares the Sameeting’s view that it is and has been necessary to settle with research policy, and that there is a need for more knowledge of the implications of the research policy that has been pursued towards partners and women. Fortunately, the Storing Communication shows that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation wants to have a further dialogue with the Sameting on different ways to gain more knowledge. The fusion is today an important precursor to the development of Sami art and culture. At the same time, national, regional and local authorities also have a responsibility to give Sami culture good development opportunities. The Sameting receives funds from the Ministry of Culture which the Sametinge itself disposes of for different cultural purposes. Furthermore, I am pleased that the Ministry of Culture is in contact with the Sametinget in its work on the Storing Communication on the financing of the NRK and the Storing Communication on commercial public broadcasting. This government has an overall view of how we can facilitate value creation and employment in all parts of the Norwegian economy. Through its instruments, the Sameting contributes to growth and development, including: in primary, cultural and Sami travel industries. There is no doubt that Norway’s northernmost counties attract more tourists than before. Tourism has become an important source of income for Norway, and it is essential that the North states continue their efforts to market the best of Norwegian nature and culture. As a new member of this committee, it is also the first time I am dealing with the annual report of Sameting. I understood early that the Sametinge wanted changes in how their budget was designed. In a seminar for the Sameting on the Stortinget, it was recently found that agreement had been reached with the Minister of Local Affairs on this matter, and I hope the Sameeting will find the new solution appropriate and in line with their intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e334	The merger is important, because Norway is a nation based on two ethnic groups, together and the Nordics, and if not for a very long time, we are going to deal with constitutional proposals to get the term 'ur people' into the Constitution. It's important. I also want to say after hearing the last speeches, from the Progress Party, that I am very happy with what the Progress Party today says about these questions on the Stortinget. Because there are a little new tones – and a lot more pleasant tones – when we look at the future of the Sameet and the Sami questions, and a recognition that I want to praise. This annual report shows developments in many important areas, and I will address some of them. Several have raised the question of the budgeting of the Sameting, which has been a repetition for several years now. One is the fact that the Sameting has reduced its appropriations under this government, and it makes it critically difficult for them. The second is to put in place a system where the needs of the Sameting are reflected in a proposition to the Stortinget, just as you do with the local economy. SV has thought that there should be a way we could get this out, just to get the Sami needs up, which I'm afraid falls a little on the priority list in the different departments when the budget struggle is about the crowns there. Coordination in the Ministry of Local Affairs is, of course, a coordination of the priorities of the other departments. Therefore, this field can easily be slowed down without an overall assessment of the needs to realise it, including national policies, and to give some political scope to the Scoetian Sea. I understand now that you say that you should make a big message. We've had news of joint policy before, with a little bit of space. If this is to be an annual report, it is a step forward, but in its form it is less binding and only guiding, and then we know that the various budgetary processes can easily ignore it and give a different priority. So we wait for what this will be like, and hope that it will be a better system than it was before, and that we actually commit ourselves to implementing the common policies – just as we commit ourselves to achieving the local economy – through the treatment of the municipal proposition each of us. So to the point of language: language is the most important identity marker for all of us. That's why the follow-up to the Nou Heart language is so incredibly important. Some of these languages — the southern Sami languages, but also some of the northern Sami languages — are very threatened, yes, they are on the red list, to put it that way. That's why the follow-up to this monster is important in the future, that you can realize some of the great and important work that was done in the NOU Heart Language. So to another topic that's affected here, the environmental status related to reindeer management and the reduction in reindeer numbers. There has been a case in the Supreme Court recently with a driver who had a small reindeer number, and who was nevertheless required to reduce the reindeer number. Therefore, SV believes that we need to look at new ways of making such reductions, so that there is not a kind of template that everyone should follow whether you have many or few clean ones, but that you can get a proportionality figure that allows many of the small but important business drivers who want to keep up the traditional industry are not unduly affected by the need to reduce the number of reindeer because of the grazing situation. Finally, I would like to say that we are looking forward to the implementation of the Storting decision on a truth commission for research policy. It's necessary if you're going to be able to put bad things behind you.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e351	In this case, I am incredibly happy that I am in a good tradition and take over a staf stick after my party trap and pastors in the municipal committee, Geir Tuskedal. As we know, he repeatedly insisted that the Sameting had to be mastered in his own house, also in budgetary terms. This is why we look forward to the follow-up to the leadership and decisions taken, including: in the budgetary work of the Stortinge, on the activities of the Sametinge. The merger has received its appropriations in several items and from several departments. There is now work going on to look at the collection of all the appropriations in one post, so that the Sameeting – to say it popular – can become masters in their own house. This has been important to us for a long time, and we will be a driver for this further. Let me add that we are addressing a solution to this matter as soon as possible, so that it can be resolved by the government with the first. Many issues related to our indigenous people’s rights and everyday challenges are still a source of debate in Norway. We are pleased that the Sameting was established, and it was necessary for the Sameting to be established, and it plays an increasingly important role. I would also like to wish our indigenous peoples good luck with their work further, a work that matters not only to the Sami population but to the whole of Norway. Finally, I report that the Christian People's Party is in charge of the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e363	The unification is an important part of our democracy. Through the Sameting, the indigenous peoples of Norway have themselves been given responsibility to secure and develop their language, culture and social life. Good practices and systems that ensure effective participation in decision-making processes by the Asset are essential for the legitimacy of the Asset but also for the credibility of the State's common policies. The State has a duty of international law to consult with one another on matters that could directly affect the Sami interests. The obligation is currently implemented in Norwegian law through the 2005 consultation procedures between State authorities and the Sameting. The Ministry is now working – in consultation with Sametinget – with a proposal on the legal rules for consultations. I have great faith that we will be able to land the consultations with the Sameting in a good way in this matter, so that we can make a proposition for the Stortinge during June this year. For many years, the merger has stressed that the current budgetary arrangements, with allocations from several ministries' budgets, are demanding. I am therefore particularly pleased to announce to Stortinget that the government and the Sametinget have agreed that from 2019 a new financial regulation will be established. With the new scheme, allocations to the Sameting will initially be aggregated into one item in the State budget. The model also assumes that each spring a brief situation description and forward-looking message will be presented to the Stortinget on Sami conditions. Assessments of the aggregation shall be made clear in these messages. I have great faith that the new budgetary system will open up a better dialogue on day-to-day common policies between the United Kingdom, the Government and the United Kingdom. The government will ensure good welfare services in the future as well. That is why we are now implementing important structural reforms. As a welfare country, Norway has a responsibility to facilitate good welfare services also to the Sami population. If we are to cope with this, it is essential that in the years ahead we are able to recruit more Sami teachers in schools and good Sami language and culture skills in the health and care sector. These are common challenges that both the Federation and the government are focusing on. The Sami languages are vulnerable. This is particularly true for Southern Sami and Lulesamian. The major community has a responsibility to contribute to the preservation of the Sami languages. It is also important for Sami language users to be able to use their language in contact with public authorities. The government, in cooperation with the Sametinget, appointed a Sami language selection in autumn 2014. The committee delivered its report, The Heart Language, in October 2016. The report covers a wide range of themes and concerns the responsibilities of several departments and public agencies. The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation coordinates the follow-up to the report of the Committee of Languages and prioritises this work. The Ministry has launched the Sameting dialogue on the content of the report and the follow-up. We have a lot of problems ahead of us. Together with the Sametinget and with the support of Stortinget, we will contribute to fulfilling the obligation of the Basic Law § 108. We're going to make it easier for people together to secure and develop their language, their culture and their social life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e378	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e383	I go back a little bit to what I said in my post, which goes on to our proposal: ‘The Government is asked to promote an obligatory plan for the realisation of Beaivváš Sámi Nationaleater and Saemien Sijte as soon as possible.’ This is a matter that we have gone with us year after year – too long. I'm not going to blame for why things have become like they have. Now I'm concerned that we can get a solution to this, which would have been decent in all ways. This should allow the Council of State and the government to join. That would have been good for the purpose, of course. It would have been good for the government. It would have been good for the Storting. It would have been good at all. So my question is, why can't the Council of State now give a little Easter egg and say that this we can join, get this decision through in the Storting today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e395	I am very aware of the importance of these institutions and the need to put them in place. That's also the government's concern. But it is not that we can take matters with budgetary consistency out of context because they are important and because we agree on them. There are a lot of such things. I know that this is being worked on in the departments responsible for it. I think it is a good idea that matters with budgetary consistency are dealt with in a whole – unless you want to see things broken and divided. No one in Norway will be able to do that. That is why we should now await the draft state budget that comes to the autumn before we deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e402	Thanks for the answer. I understand this with budgetary consistency, but it is in many ways the standard response when you just want to delay the matter. I honestly believe that now it has taken too long, and the budgetary consequences have been every year when you have chosen not to prioritize it, and you have changed things, and then, to put it correctly, you have driven a bit of seduction tactics. We should now be able to give it to ourselves. Enough about that. I would also like to ask about the consultation system, because I heard that the Council of State was a little concerned with it myself, if I understood correctly. Year after year, we have been told that the Sameting has been a little dissatisfied – not with the consultation system itself, but because you feel that the government does not deal with matters relating to Sami purposes and consults on things. What does the Council of State think to do to improve it, so we're not going to get this to debate in the Grand Duchy next year as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e411	Very short, because I don't see that we have any relation to the projects, and I'm not going to take the big talk on the Norwegian economy in the last few years, but it's been very demanding years. There have been very tough priorities, and I am very pleased that the government has brought Norway through difficult years, and that the arrows are now pointing in the right direction. I hope we will return quickly to these important matters. There's the Storting busy, there's the government busy, and there's the Sameting busy. With regard to the consultation system, it is true that there have been debates related to this – and that there has been disagreement when it comes to consultation and not. There has been a factual disagreement on a case-by-case basis. I hope we're going to get a little further, we're going to legislate. So I think there'll still be a little bit of different perceptions in different things, but it's important for us to follow up our obligations. I believe that it is important to get a legislative act in place, and I hope that through it we will avoid unnecessary debates further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e418	My question is also about the consultation system, because the rules of procedure between the Sametinget and the national authorities regarding budgets and consultations have been a conflict area for which the Stortinget has repeatedly asked for a solution. One cannot expect that there will always be agreement in these consultations, but if there is agreement on when to consult, what kind of matters to consult about, and how to process, I think the starting point would have been much better. And it's clear that both parties have to contribute to finding these solutions. I think it is important that, after a long time of work, we are now able to set up a unified model for this consultation process between the Sameting and the national authorities. Therefore, I ask the Council of State to explain a little bit where this work is, how the progress in the matter is, and whether she sees it possible to put in place a unified model for the consultation process itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e425	This is a work that both the government, and especially when my predecessors, and the Sameting has prioritised. I feel that there have been many and good dialogues about how to find a common and agreed solution. There is now a solution, and we intend to promote a legislative proposal on the consultation system as soon as possible. Then I have to say, at least based on the experience I have in this area, that there are a lot of things you can regulate, but that there will necessarily still be a debate on different issues. I think you can clear the way very much when you have a common perception of the type of things and the time for when to do this, as the representative mentions. All disagreements don't necessarily work out a bill to clear the way, but we have a good dialogue and a good hope that this will take us a little bit further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e432	First, until the realization of Beaivváš and Saemien Sijte: So what we are proposing here is that we want an obligating plan, because this one has been lying and waiting and waiting – so please, and then there will be nothing. You have to make a plan for how to do this. It is a bit strange to hear the minister say that it has been hard times and difficult and so on. The government has spent 230 billion. kr more than before, and the billions have rolled into things that may not have been heartbreakingly important, so suggesting that there are these projects that will put a government budget at stake is a little hard to understand. So can the Council of State say what is the reason why you don't want an obligating plan to realize projects that the government is also saying it will realize?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e441	A plan is pretty worthless if it can't be implemented. With a plan, it has to follow money. My starting point is in principle, it is not linked to this matter, but to the principle that plans followed by money must be dealt with according to the State budget. There are a lot of good projects, and there are a lot of reasons to prioritize individual projects, but there's a reason we have procedures associated with this. I think that serves Norway, it serves the Stortinget, and it serves the government, because if we are to have an executive, we must actually have a community around how we deal with these matters. So we fully agree on the importance. I believe that there has been no lack of plans either, but there has been a lack of implementation because we have had to give priority to toughness.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e448	It's a plan for realization that's missing. I am now recording that this is not very high on the agenda for what you want to fight for. But I have another question, and it's related to the government's plans now to present a big message to each of us, and can the council say a little more about it? For a big message, it is not binding or binding in its form either, it is a policy option that can be promoted by various types of proposals, such as the 'Government asks the Government' and so on. What is the nature of the commitment made by the Council of State to provide such a large-scale communication, in particular with regard to the financial framework? Because that's what the Sameting has been about, that you have to have a financial framework for the projection of different types of demographics, expenditure increases and so on – like when you put the municipal economy in place through the municipal proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e458	I disagree with the premise that these are projects the government is not concerned about. We are. That is apparent from the Jeløya Declaration. With regard to the message I have shown that we are going to present each of ours, there is a forward-looking message. It's a message that describes the situation related to cohabitation. Assessments have also been made by the Sameting itself to be presented in this Communication. But it's not a municipal proposition. There has been a debate with the Sameting. The merger has had other wishes for such a message, but we have fallen down that this is the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e465	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e472	At the Nordic joint conference in 1971, the well-known words were said that we live together are one people and will continue to be one – neither more nor less than other people. I want to draw attention to a field that in the message is underlined by the Sami language selection, and that concerns access to Sami language competence. The government’s Northern Region Initiative also points to the serious shortage of people with Sami language competence in a number of disciplines. There is a strong consensus between government and the need to take action in both the short and long term, and there is a strong need for a significant increase in the recruitment of special co-teachers to both school and kindergarten and health care, where the lack of Sami language staff is something that goes beyond the best interests of the child, it goes beyond the care of the elderly, and especially patients who are in a particularly difficult situation. The government refers to the commitment of ensuring an equivalent service provision for the whole population. There will only be empty words if there is not a strong lift, and a lift will be the opposite of reducing appropriations for Sami measures. Here I believe that the state must be obliged to take positive specific measures, and that must be done to ensure something that could be in the vicinity of linguistic equivalency. When we talk about one people -- neither more nor less than other people -- it's about having an equivalent everyday life, where you meet people who speak your heart language. Your heart language is spontaneous, that's what you do in desperate situations, in joy and sorrow – and especially when you're hit by terrible events. What would we have felt if a child we know in the community were sent to a Finnish-speaking foster home? Think about it a little bit. What would we have felt if your mother was admitted to a nursing home where it was only French-speaking staff – or if your partner were hit by a stroke, and you know that because of the accident or illness they don't understand the health care staff? These are not just horror scenarios that we imagine; these are things that happen every day. Samemen are a proud people and would have done this job very well themselves, it would not have been for the wrong that was committed during the brutal investigation. That is why it must be corrected in this wrong, and positive specific measures must then be taken. Then the government can't just keep saying that we're going to make plans, that we're going to postpone it to that and that budget -- you're going to have to take action now, because that's now you have the opportunity to educate these people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e485	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e501	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e510	First, thank you to the Committee for a clean and good cooperation on the position we are discussing today. In the proposal for a representative, the Government proposes that the ceiling on total remuneration for employees in the State, including any supplements and pensions, should not be higher than the arrangements applicable to the Prime Minister at all times. Proposalers point to the need to avoid major economic differences in society and to set a good example for the state and public-owned enterprises. There are several reasons why the majority of the Committee does not endorse the proposal for a representative. The size has recently given leadership to the government's wage policy. For example, when examining the ownership notification in June 2014, the Stortinget underlined that the remuneration of directors in state-owned and state-owned companies is the responsibility of the board of directors and that within the guidelines drawn up, it is the responsibility of the board to determine this within the management pay system. Furthermore, it is stated that government directors’ salaries must be competitive but must not be wage-leading. It's important. The guidelines for the government's management pay system do not meet the wishes of the representative for a wage ceiling. However, in the case of pensions and supplementary benefits, there has been a tightening that meets the proposal. The managers of both state and whole-time state companies are now subject to a pension ceiling equivalent to twelve times the basic amount of the people's security. There are also rules for final agreements. The guidelines for the government’s executive remuneration system state that the use of post-paid and right-of-law positions is to be tightened up. Then it has to be said that one thing is rules, and another thing is whether the rules are being complied with. It's not always that we experience that happening. A matter that has aroused much mention lately is the terms of resignation for one of the health companies' directors, especially at the University Hospital Nord-Norway. The terms that were agreed with the management of the health region went well beyond the provisions that I have now referred to. Many people feel that the agreement is unreasonably good, and that state businesses go far too far in using public money to find agreed solutions to avoid conflicts. It shall be emphasised that the agreement was concluded well in advance. The case in Health Nord led to the promotion of a proposal for a representative to be discussed in Stortinget. It concerns Document 8:145 S for 2017-2018, to amend the legislation and practices for final agreements and legal positions for managers also in healthcare companies. It is necessary to have this review. The case mentioned is far from the only one of the same nature that we have had in health businesses and health regions. VG has recently had a review showing this. However, the management salaries of health businesses are not included in the State tariff area for which the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is responsible. And the management salaries in whole-time and rented state companies are below the Minister of Industry. Health enterprises, which are also regarded as state companies, are below the Minister of Health. This is underlined in the letter from the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation to the Committee, where the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Health has also made his assessments. The representative proposal that we are discussing today is therefore about the heads of government – not managers of health businesses or other state businesses or businesses. However, I would like to stress that the different responsibilities do not necessarily justify large differences in pay systems. The head of a health company, the police chief in a police district, the ministerial councils or a leader in Innovation Norway are all leaders of the people most experienced as state businesses. Together with the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, we therefore stress from the Centre Party that permanent pay should be a general rule in government wage policy. The use of bonuses, after-sales bonuses and forms of favourable final agreements should not be part of the government’s policy on directors’ wages and salaries. I believe that these are principles that are more important to establish than to put a ceiling on executive salaries based on what the Prime Minister's salary is. The Central Party, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left have made a proposal in the vote: ‘The government asks the Government to sue the Storting for any changes to the guidelines on directors’ salaries and other types of remuneration for the employees of the State.’ We are doing this because, despite better guidelines for pensions and final agreements, we need to focus on the principles that will apply to the government's leadership wage policy. This is how we can counter increasing differences between managers and employees. With this, I address the proposal of the Senterpartiet.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e545	The representative Willfred Nordlund has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e550	The principles of senior remuneration in companies in which the State is the owner were addressed in Meld. 27 for 2013–2014 and through Innst. 140 S for 2014-2015, where the Stortinget gave leadership to government policy in this area. That's what it says. ‘The Committee considers that the remuneration of directors is the responsibility of the board of directors and upholds the main principles of the state’s attitude to the remuneration of directors of companies in which the State owns, as set out in paragraph 1. current guidelines. The remuneration of directors of companies in which the State is the owner must be competitive but must not be payroll. The emphasis shall be on moderation.’;» The three government councils responsible have all given their views on the proposal for a ceiling on senior remuneration in the country corresponding to the salary level of the Prime Minister. Governments stress that the governments of state-owned companies and companies are responsible for the management of the government's wage policy for these state-owned enterprises and companies. The senior executives of State activities fall within the State tariff area and the Committee stresses that the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation has a responsibility to manage the government's wage policy for these activities. It has been demonstrated that the State must be able to recruit and retain skilled managers and must therefore have flexibility to offer competitive wages. So let's see. Then it is that the Workers' Party believes that permanent pay should be the general rule of government wage policy. The use of bonuses, after-sales and other forms of – call it – favourable final agreements should not be part of the wage policy of leaders, and therefore we are also promoting a proposal here in the United Kingdom today, together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left, which referred to and took up the previous speeches. It is important that the principles of government management pay are based on moderation and that the state should not be wage-leading. In that case, it is the responsibility of the government to effectively follow this up and keep the Storting informed of the principles governing remuneration and remuneration of managers in the country, and that this is followed up in accordance with the assumptions laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e564	Our economic space is going to be smaller in the years to come. We're going to have to prioritize what's most important first, and at the same time we have to reduce the cost where we can. We're totally dependent on getting a more efficient public sector, where we can get more out of each penny. There are, of course, many measures to be taken for it. We need to digitise and simplify, and ensure that we have simpler processes and continue the red tape reform. But in the process of transition we are in, we are also dependent on attracting and holding good leaders who can implement and contribute to solving the challenges facing the public sector. That means that we also have to be able to give competitive conditions. But let it be clear: it is not – and it should not – the task of the state to overwhelm the private sector. Government enterprises and enterprises should not be wage-leading, and I feel that a unanimous increase today is also ending. What a majority in the UK today also seems to agree on is that it would be a bad idea to remove flexibility by tying up executive salaries similar to the Prime Minister's level. When we discuss wages in the state in general and for top managers in the state in particular, I think it is important to remember the economic situation that we have had in Norway in recent years. It's not very many years since we experienced a dramatic fall in oil prices, with increasing unemployment and a lot of moderation in the private sector. Now the arrows of the economy have turned around, unemployment is falling, but we know that in the years to come, there's still going to be moderation in the private payroll. I think it is important that the state also shows the same moderation. There are more leaders in the state who serve more than the prime minister. Many of them have signed agreements several years ago – some before and some after the government change in 2013. There are several reasons why there are some leaders who serve more than the Prime Minister, for example. Some people have special assignments abroad, and they have special supplements, to mention something. Top leaders in the country are a complex group — everything from foreign service to health. That is why it is not right to set a wage cap that applies to everyone. At the same time, we have a responsibility for making reasonable use of taxpayers' money. And it won't be a reasonable use of money to have too high wages, too large parachutes or too large bonuses. Therefore, it is also good that the government has tightened up, among other things. by tightening up the possibility of providing arrears and rights. I am pleased that the government is closely monitoring the development of executive wages that we have in the state, and is also constantly assessing whether there is a need for new measures to ensure that we have wage developments over time following wage developments in the rest of the world. Top executives in the state have a special responsibility, like top executives in the business world. They must be prepared to go on the day if their superiors no longer have confidence in them. They also choose to waive many of the rights of other employees. That is why top managers are entitled to compensation in the form of remuneration. It applies in the country as it does in the private sector. But, of course, remuneration should be within reasonable limits and clear in accordance with the guidelines set. I expect, of course, and also have great confidence that the responsible state councils are clear in their governance dialogue and in the dialogues with the board of directors, that these guidelines are being followed up. Because I expect us to show moderation at the same time as we need the necessary flexibility, so that we get the leaders that the public sector needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e577	I think everyone in this room can gather that moderation in government executive wages is important. We have had some examples of salary levels and final agreements that seem completely unreasonable. At the same time, it is important that the State be competitive towards other sectors. Managing positions in the country are often very demanding and are associated with a high level of responsibility. Then pay limits must not result in competent managers not choosing government jobs. If we set a maximum limit to exclude the best managers because they can get better paid jobs in other sectors, it could potentially be more damaging than the salary level exceeding the Prime Minister's salary. A state-owned company with poor governance can be very expensive to society. The proposal seeks to eliminate differences and points out that economic differences are as toxic to society. There's nothing to suggest that this is a correct statement. At least there is nothing to suggest that society will improve if this proposal has been adopted. What is the real reason why the Prime Minister's salary should be the right maximum level? The Progress Party agrees that moderation is important, but setting any maximum limit there is no good reason to do so. The salary of the Prime Minister is high above the average salary level, and if it is intended to eliminate economic differences, it will not help greatly. The same leaders would probably get the better paid jobs in other sectors, and so the differences would be equal or greater. The only thing to achieve is to remove some potentially skilled leaders who could have helped improve the state sector. I'd rather say that poor management of state corporations is more like married to society. Today, we have guidelines that governments in state corporations are going to deal with. It's important that these are followed up. It is harmful to the reputation, and it is misuse of taxpayers' money if there is a completely unfair pay-back scheme, especially in cases where managers have to leave after failure. It is therefore important to point out that the government has tightened the use of remuneration. The Progress Party does not support this proposal because it will not achieve its intended purpose and has the potential to create far greater negative effects than positive ones. But the fact that we're not in favour of this doesn't mean that we think the theme is irrelevant. We assume that the government will follow closely the wage developments of state companies and that it will take action if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e592	Galoping government management wages are not good governance, either by the tax money or by the government. Nor is it sustainable in the country, in enterprises or in social accounts. So many leaders in the state today serve more than the Prime Minister – 149 is the last figure we've got. It's a little hard to imagine who has more responsibility than the Prime Minister. It is also the case that the Prime Minister must go if you no longer have confidence. The whole reasoning from the majority around this matter seems to me to be very limping. It boils a little bit down to the fact that you think the best always go after the biggest money, and we've heard that in several articles here now. Yes, what kind of message is it to all government employees? I know many of them – well-trained, well-qualified people who I know could probably get a job privately for a much higher salary, but they stay in the state because they think the assignment is important. They are often much more qualified than the manager, have a long education. The state differs from industry in that area. These employees are totally dependent on the state to have. It doesn't work without them. We hear that there are some overpaid managers who are going to have the courage to fire employees after the government's unpriority cheese needs. That's why we're going to have such leadership rewards because they're going to have to watch it. In addition to this, there is an index finger – from the representative Holm Lønseth – to employees both in the state and in private business when there are difficult times, because they have to show moderation. No, it's not like the best leaders always go after the biggest carrots. I think that if you're dependent on millions of people to cross money and do your best at work, it might not be the leadership we're looking for when we're looking for leaders in the public sector. It may not be those looking for employees to resign, but perhaps looking for other savings potential, because the public sector is very much a service to the population and to the business community. It requires that you have competent employees who can do that job. There are many aspects to this matter that are important. What I think the majority jumps over completely, is just this that the whole business, but especially the state, depends on thousands of wise, competent, knowledge-rich people, and that they make one hundred percent effort every day. Everyone understands that, I think. Then we also have to understand that if these people are to make this job a decent salary that is possible for us as a society and as a state to pay, we cannot have leaders living in another economic world. I was watching VG last night. Health firms were concerned, and there is also another proposal for treatment. But it shows another paradox – that these leaders who have some of the so-called heaviest jobs also have plenty of time left to sit in a lot of bosses that they also get money to sit in. I don't understand how it's possible if you have such a demanding job, that it's also possible to sit in a whole range of boards, which are also giant organizations, which of course you have to spend a lot of time getting into if you're going to be able to do a good steering job there. There's something going on in these cases. What we want is to put light on this and get a stop to it. It's because, as a society, we are totally dependent on all other employees being willing to make a hundred percent effort at a salary that society and businesses can bear. Then it's even more important that government management is seen as something other than what you're going to compete with, where the leaders just go after the biggest money, because government business is something other than going after the biggest money. Government activity is administration and service to the whole country and to the whole population and has a different purpose than maximizing its profits. We have to stop this pay gap. Therefore, SV promotes the proposals that are in place, that we need to get a ceiling on total remuneration, and that we need to update the state's guidelines because they are neither good enough nor are being practiced so that we can stop this gallop.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e609	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e614	I would like to give the proposers behind this proposal right in one thing: for big economic differences are not good for our society. But it's good for society that the formation of wages doesn't happen in this room, it happens in the businesses. The same applies to government directors' salaries, there is a responsibility out there, and pay levels must be competitive. So you can spend a lot of time discussing what's competitive. But it is important that we from this room signal that government executives should not be wage-leading, and they should not be wage-driven. A major element of this is that the state must be able to recruit and retain competent leaders in order to perform important societal functions. I'm fully aware that pay is not the only input to make it attractive to work in the state, but it's an important part. That is why I am pleased that a joint committee today is speaking for moderation. Then it's a prerequisite that it's followed that this happens. Therefore, I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e621	It is important that wage developments among national leaders should be reasonable and over time in line with other wage developments in the labour market. The wage developments in the country shall over time follow the norm set by the front line. This has been clarified by the government in the new guidelines for the State's management pay system, and it is a central guideline for wage negotiations in the state. In addition, for the management pay system, the government has tightened the use of remuneration and the possibility of right-wing positions. KMD has also sent letters to the departments where we stress the importance that state top managers do not receive a higher wage increase on an ongoing basis than workers. Last year we invited the departments to show special moderation for the development of the management pay system. The state must be able to recruit, develop and maintain good managers and trade union specialists. It requires that the State has flexibility to offer competitive wages and salaries, including in those parts of the labour market where the level of wages and salaries is high. The State tariff area, for which I am responsible, comprises about 200 state enterprises with nearly 160,000 employees. Activities vary in size, i.e. in the number of employees, as well as in terms of societal tasks, organisation and location. In addition, several establishments have staff on missions abroad, many in security demanding areas. Supplements and compensations necessary under such conditions may amount to significant amounts and will be part of the remuneration. Several of those who currently have a higher salary than the Prime Minister are persons with a highly marketable competence. All this suggests that there will be different frameworks and premises related to the leadership recruitment in the different segments of the government labour market. It would therefore be very unfortunate to operate with an absolute limit on wages, as the Prime Minister's remuneration. The proposal also includes state-owned and state-owned companies, where regional health enterprises are included. ‘Guidelines for remuneration and other remuneration of senior staff of undertakings and companies having State ownership’ are within the scope of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries. These also apply to the regional health enterprises of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The main principle of the guidelines is that remuneration to managers should be competitive but not pay-paying, and emphasis should be placed on moderation. The companies covered by the guidelines are, like the state agencies, very different in size, industry and degree of internationalisation. A cap corresponding to the Prime Minister’s remuneration that does not take such a condition into account could weaken the ability of companies to attract and retain the most appropriate leadership candidates. I am pleased that the Committee has shown support for the fact that it is not appropriate to introduce a wage cap at the level of the Prime Minister's remuneration for heads of state or state companies. This means that we need sufficient flexibility to offer pay and working conditions to attract good and competent top managers in the country. This shall be managed wisely so that for these groups the country also has over time a wage trend in line with the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e639	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e644	This is not about the State not being competitive on wages and salaries. But the state has a special responsibility to show reason and to have a reasonable level of wage fixing and not to be wage-paying. I could imagine asking the Council of State how she will help us to get what I call more clean pay agreements in the state, in the state's business, and where bonus agreements, final package agreements that go beyond any reasonableness, etc., can no longer be part of the pay terms when an employee is employed in the state or in the state's business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e651	We are doing this through our wage-forming policy. The fact that you have it in common that you are employed in the state does not mean that the job you do is subject to the same conditions. There may be very different jobs, and they are in different departments and in different levels. But it's clear that we've tightened up the bonus, we've tightened up the pension, and we've tightened up the pay back agreements for employees with annual contracts. I think that's absolutely right. And I think it's important that we manage the community's resources in a good way, but it's not like we're recruiting in a vacuum. We're recruiting people from the same pool. We're a pretty small country. We have limited expertise in many areas, so here we have to have confidence that our leaders enter into contracts that can be defended and that are transparent. We do this through the powers we give to those who negotiate wages on behalf of the state. And that applies primarily to leaders and rulers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e658	I understand the state's not negotiating in a vacuum. It would be worrying if we had such a system as well. But that doesn't mean you can't get what I want to call the more pure pay agreements. There's nothing to it when you're operating on the system you're doing. I would like to ask the question: Why does the Council of State think that the Storting should not decide that the Government should promote a case for the Storting on any changes to the guidelines for executive salaries and other types of remuneration for the employees of the State – in view of the answer I received earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e665	I do not believe that we have any problem with the fact that we do not have ‘clean’ pay agreements, which is the term used by the representative. We have clear pay agreements with our employees. And so we've tightened up other forms of compensation, which I guess the representative Lauvås really refers to. If this was a problem, there was a basis for making a case, but I don't understand that it is. I perceive that we are following this closely, and that we have confidence that our leaders are entering into proper contracts. And if not, this is what we're dealing with in our ownership dialogue or our dialogue with the leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e670	Principles have been laid down for management salaries and allowances to meet the moderation requirements that we have set out from the Storting in the beginning. If management salaries are to be paid, the emphasis is on moderation and the government is not to be a pay-leader. Pension provisions are, as I was in my post, made clear, and there are also rules on the level of benefits in contracts, including for yardstick positions. The problem, based on the debate we have had, does not necessarily seem to be about the principles and guidelines that have been laid down, but whether these are followed up in practice in State activities. Now I have not understood these guidelines as guidance, on which the Council of State was partly concerned, but which should actually be followed. Will the Council of State contribute to the fact that state-owned enterprises, wholly-owned companies and not least when the departments themselves employ their managers – that is, the discussion today – base on the guidelines given on wage fixing, pensions and other benefits when negotiating agreements with their managers in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e681	The principles and guidelines apply. They have to be followed. But we have to agree that they are of an overall nature. There's a flexibility in the system, because jobs aren't necessarily the same, no recruitment processes are necessarily the same, so here it's going to be concrete decisions. But the guidelines should be followed, and they should be followed up by us as the overall authority. I feel that we are making a connection to government directors' salaries. In the case of state companies, this is under the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but this is followed up in the ownership dialogue. I know that from my previous job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e688	I have to thank you for the answer. I noticed that the Council of State is now saying that the principles should be followed, but that you have to have some flexibility. I don't understand that the majority in this case has necessarily been opposed to some flexibility, because it might be dependent on recruiting the best leaders out there to government employees leaders. It's not really this discussion. My question was whether the Council of State would ensure that these guidelines were followed, including this principle which actually underpins fixed remuneration, with the exception of the defined posts, where one becomes employed on a yearly basis. The basis for negotiation is larger, but we have some employees in the state who do not have goals, where a very large increase in the level of management pay has been seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e695	It is true that there are some agreements, and many of them before the time of this government. We've been tightening up over the last few years. We're following this closely. We have been through a very difficult situation in the Norwegian economy, where it is very important that government wages do not work in terms of wages and, not least, are provocative in a situation where the social partners have taken the utmost responsibility and have shown moderation. It's very important. We have guidelines, but they are of a general nature precisely because there has to be a flexibility that is absolutely necessary. The argument of the Nordlund representative is that this flexibility should be removed – everyone should have the same salary or salary ceiling as the Prime Minister. It does not respond to the challenges facing the state. I think we have good guidelines and we follow them. If there is a need to make changes, we will, of course, do it – as we have done in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e704	I understand from the Council of State that she does not think there is a need for any change in today's situation, where it is obvious that there is a pay gap in the state. And the Council of State seems to share that view that if you're going to get the best leaders, we have to take those who ask for the greatest wages or the greatest benefits. Then I would like to ask the Minister of State, who is responsible for the general public sector in general, whether it is a thoughtful view that in state administration, which is so dependent on highly competent, well-trained experts in very many areas, high wages are to motivate the state employees or the state leaders we are to have, or whether it is perhaps the concern of the community and the task that should be the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e711	First of all, I don't see that we have a pay gap in the state. If we compare with the private one, and we have to do that given that we don't experience being in a vacuum in the recruitment processes – I say that because we recruit from the same pool as the private business one does – I don't feel that we have a pay gap. Nor can I receive income to say that government leaders are only concerned with pay. But what I can say, and it's based on my experience in both the state and the municipality, is that the state is missing out on skilled employees because we have guidelines related to moderation and wage development. What I can say is that municipalities are missing out on skilled employees who they want to hire, simply because they cannot compete in pay. It's okay, that's the way it should be. So we're going to have guidelines on behalf of the community, which means that we can't necessarily compete with pay. But in some cases we should and we have to, and then I think we should have flexibility to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e719	Then you'll have the cord shift over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e724	I may have misunderstood the representative of the Progress Party, but there is no doubt that inequalities in a society lead to a worse society. In countries where inequalities are great, people trust each other less, life expectancy is shorter and child mortality is higher. Greater inequality is not sustainable, either in business or social accounts. Taking care of values like equality, proximity and high levels of trust is important. I basically see that all of the parts in this room can be agreed on. It obliges us by that all must therefore also take seriously that inequalities unfortunately are increasing in society as a whole. The state, through the high management salaries, is helping to drive and strengthen that income inequality. We have to admit that. Maybe it's also the way that most people here want it not to be like that. That should be a good thing for a discussion about how we can counteract it, rather than a demonstration of renunciation, where we hope for moderation. Differences in income in society have increased over the last ten years. The poorest tenth of households received 4.5 pst in 1986. of the income of society after tax. That proportion decreased to 3.7 in 2015. For the richest tenths of households, development has been opposite. The wealthy have a growing share of the cake. Even if we measure by other methods, we see that the differences increase. Disparity in society is not only countered by the fact that we get a thank-you for leadership wages in the state, but when we put limits on how high government executive salaries should be, it sends a signal that the state should not be a driver of greater pay differences. We're not just talking about the payroll here, we're talking about what's driving and what's driving. Most people agree that leaders in the state who get high pay even after they leave give less confidence in the state of the people most. We're talking about moderation and there's a competition between the public and the private about competent leaders. But the public sector also needs good managers. Often I think we've talked too little about good governance in the state. Are the best leaders those who can't be motivated by a salary of less than 2 million. Do you really want to delete this item? In what we are proposing, there is also flexibility. We're willing to discuss it. And is there really a direct link between pay level and skill? It surprises me if a majority in the hall actually means it. Our proposal is something that should be discussed further. That's something you should be able to agree on. There is a need not only to ask for moderation, but also to take some active action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e747	Let me stress that what we are discussing here today is employees in the state. Whether they are permanent employees, or whether they are employed in annual posts, is in itself an important difference as to the type of contract and the replacement pay and bonus schemes available to them. To put it that way: the government’s management pay system was established in 1990, and the latest policy updates came by August 2017. It is important that in the discussion we do not mix those employed by regional health companies, in state enterprises and companies, with those employed by the State. Today we are discussing the employees of the state. And it is – as many speakers have pointed out – important that moderation be exercised in these areas as well. Let me now underline to the Council that the management pay system ‘must also be designed to contribute to confidence in government’. It says read the guidelines. When many parties express that confidence can be impaired if there is too much pay gap, it is a signal that both this hall and the government — the government — should listen to. I shall conclude by saying that the level of pay in the state and in the regional health companies and in other state companies is important to discuss, but the latter two will be discussed in their respective cases and not in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e756	There is a need to think a little bit about what we have proposed today, and it is that we compare other government leaders with the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has a high salary — a level of pay that is manyfold that of ordinary workers, and it is very high above what other leaders in the country have. It's a little strange to hear that there's something very distant that you can't recruit at. I hear over and over that you say you're missing out on skilled employees if you don't offer such wages. Yes, it's a bit of a message to give to all employees who don't have such wages, who are very skilled, who are completely dependent on, and who are willing to stand in the job and do 100 pst. Efforts, every day and every year, because these are so complicated businesses that we depend on those employees. So there's no legitimate reason in skills and things that say these pay levels are going to increase as they do now, because they're often as well educated and competent as you're supposed to lead. If we miss out on skilled leaders in this, we have to worry that we are missing out on other skilled employees down the systems, the ones who are going to do all the work that is going to be done in practice to people who are going to have services or services, or administration. I get a feeling that you think there are two types of people, and that you're looking for something completely different when you're looking for good leaders. Obviously, some qualities are about management, but they might as well be found in good employees who haven't thrown themselves into the pay gap. It is important that the state really implements the moderation that we have now expressed, but as the result shows that it is not implemented. Finally, leaders and social summits often sit on each other's boards and give each other wage increases all the time, making this a spiral. Therefore, it is particularly important that it does not happen in the country. Unfortunately, I think that is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e765	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e781	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each Party Group and 5 minutes to the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e790	Let me first thank the Committee for good cooperation in this matter. I would also like to thank the proposers, Mr Breivik and Mr Grande in the Left Party, for raising an important issue. A brief explanation of the decision before I link some reflections to the proposal itself: the representative proposal suggests that the government should come back to the Stortinget with a proposal for a Norwegian legislation on public finance. The majority of the Committee points out that from the political platform of the government it will facilitate the use of public funding in Norway. The majority therefore believe that the intention behind the proposal has been respected and propose that the proposal be annexed to the protocol. Here in Norway, public funding has been primarily associated with collection for charitable purposes. We've seen that for years. But international public funding, also called crowdfunding, is a growing way of financing business ideas. When the committee was visiting London not so long ago, we got a serious look at the size of this, and it's only a matter of time before this kind of funding could also form a significant part of the Norwegian business community, especially the startup environment. There is a high potential in public funding as a means of raising capital for start-up enterprises. Such access to capital creates jobs and not least business opportunities that would otherwise not have been possible through the traditional way of thinking about financing. Therefore, it is important to simplify the conditions for public funding. Although European legislation is desirable — and preferred too — there is a need to simplify current Norwegian legislation until such EU legislation is in place. All respondents also pointed out the need for adaptation of Norwegian legislation, which today includes public funding. I would also like to mention that during the consultation there was a need for simplification of concession rules in order for loan and equity-based public finance to become an attractive source of capital for Norwegian entrepreneurs. Another important input from ICT Norway, to which I would like to include, is that they ask that the concept of ‘individual cases’ be clarified in the Financial Corporations Act, including the number of projects to which an investor can lend and the amount of loans may be in order for each investor not to be considered to be subject to concession. This is a timely input, which should be assessed in the government's further work on the framework conditions for public funding. I would also like to mention that the Swedish and Finnish law on public finance has been drawn up as good examples and can be good sources of inspiration to make it easier to use public funding in Norway. I look forward to the debate in the Chamber and not least to the follow-up of the matter by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e811	I can essentially join the case spokesperson's considerations. Folk funding is an internationally strongly growing way of financing events, projects and business ideas, and in Norway we are far behind many countries. We're in the initial pit when it comes to this form of funding. The great Norwegian success reMarkable, a paper tablet that I know that at least two of the finance committee's members use to work for the day, is left as one of the few successful examples, and the clearest example, here to the country. The whole committee wants more of this, and the draft representative that we are discussing today has very good intentions. The Committee broadly agrees that there is a need for national legislation, not to make it more difficult, but on the contrary to make public funding simpler, more transparent and more comprehensively regulated. At the same time, it is important to recognise that public funding as a method is far wider than the collection-based product funding of new ideas on platforms such as Kickstarter and Indiegogo. It is therefore necessary to distinguish in this debate between collection-based public funding, which the proposers focus most on, and loan and share-based public funding. In the first place too, challenges need to be addressed, such as: the risk to consumers who may be fooled by good ideas or promise of a high level of service. But it is expected that the biggest growth in this area in the future will occur within the loan and purchase of axles, and that is enough here the need for legislation is greatest. In the United Kingdom, this form of funding is 15 pst. of all new loans to small and medium-sized enterprises as part of their loans to the segment. For a long time, the view has been that this is impossible in Norway with today's legislation, but in January 2018 the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority approved the Monner platform, which allows companies to borrow money from private individuals. Monner is the only Norwegian public finance player who has received a concession from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to operate a business as a paying agent, and is also registered as a loan intermediary. We know that there are several actors waiting for a licence from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, who criticise that it is difficult to get a clear interpretation of the law. Entrepreneurs want clear guidelines, and many want own Norwegian legislation, because it will take too long before joint regulation in Europe will be in place, and there is a need for legislation that is good enough to ensure investor security, but not so complicated that the platform becomes inaccessible to small start-ups. We must listen to this. New technologies provide new opportunities, and policies should be quick to adapt laws and regulations to them. The Labour Party is in favour of public funding. We want Norway to be an attractive country to start and run the fintech bet. There is every reason to believe that the Norwegian public finance market is underdeveloped compared to the countries around us, but that this will quickly turn now when more actors come to the path and investors and businesses get better knowledge of public funding as a method. The legislation must then be included, including in order to prevent unprofessional operators, such as: already attempted to finance consumer loans on a public basis. The Labour Party believes, therefore, that the government must deal with a simpler, applicable regulatory framework, which also takes account of the openness and transparency of this type of financing mechanism and the need for investor protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e828	We are today at the beginning of a digital revolution, a revolution that intervenes in almost all sectors and sectors, and that is going to change the way we work, think, act and make decisions, both in politics and in civil life. The sharing economy is part of this. There's nothing new about renting out a room or driving someone from A to B. The new thing is how to connect more people and thus create a potentially larger market. That is also the case with public funding. Companies all over the world have been collecting money through issues and loans for centuries, and in modern times it has largely happened through large brokerage companies. It has worked fine, but it has not made the potential market much bigger. First, it's relatively expensive to use brokers to get money. It excludes a number of small and medium-sized enterprises that need capital. Secondly, brokerage houses do not — and should not — have the competence and ability to involve small and personal investors. If I, another member of the financial committee or my grandmother for that matter have a few dollars left over, it would be very demanding, if not impossible, to come into contact with an unlisted company that needs capital. Then they go to the bank instead of being invested in jobs. I am pleased that an overall committee expresses the wish that the use of people's finance should be made easier in Norway, as the government also expresses it in the Jeløya platform. We need more people to contribute to our businesses to secure our jobs. If a little bit more of our capital is allocated to small and medium-sized enterprises, technology companies or others, we've come very far. At the hearing of the Financial Committee, a strong desire was expressed by all bodies for simplified legislation that is clearer and clearer than today. The very best would probably have been a pan-European legislative package, but until it can be put in place, it must and should be done a job with the legislation at home. A good start can be to look at Sweden and Finland, which are presented by many as good examples of regulatory authorities. There are several different forms of public funding. It can be very roughly divided between loan-based financing, equity-based financing and donations. Maybe the different forms need different legislation. A concrete example of a simplification that needs to be done is the need to hold a concession in line with someone who advises on funding when making a platform available for issues, even if no investment advice is provided. In other words, the platform itself shall be concessional. The Committee, as the rapporteur said, was on a committee mission in London. There we met a founder and kind of an expert at crowdfunding, or folk funding in Norwegian. He presented a very good argument that has been little in the debate here in Norway. He said that public funding could be involved and erase social differences based on education, class, wealth, banking relations, etc. Now this is probably a more topical debate in the UK than in Norway, but this kind of funding can actually make it easier for Jørgen Hatter and King Solomon to operate in the same market – both as an investor and not least as a company that needs capital in the market. Finally, a small appendix to the Centre Party and to one of their comments in the setting, which specifies that it is necessary to take into account that public funding may pose a significant risk. Of course it can, like any other investment. That's actually the whole point of the market economy and of capitalism, which is, of course, the governing thing for our society today. But we can't make a difference between investments based on how to get money. If there was no risk associated with the investments, it would also not have been possible to raise any return on the investments. I think it applies even to the agrarian librarians.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e847	Crowdfunding, or popular funding, is nothing new and scary. Norwegian communities have been providing public funding for centuries, but never before with such an advanced technological platform as today. It makes it possible to finance the neighbor's good business idea, an exciting cultural project in the hometown or a dog hotel on the Skedsmokoret. Digitalisation has scaled public funding in a way that was not possible in the past. However, the rules governing public funding are fragmented and unclear on many points. In the election campaign, therefore, we in the Left voted to improve the conditions for Norwegian public funding, and we are pleased that we were included in the government statement, the Jeløya platform, in the project. Today’s legislation on public finance is complicated and fragmented. On the one hand, the Swedish Securities Trading Act regulates the industry and, on the other, the law on the management of alternative investment funds and, on the other, the Financial Corporations Act. It is also unclear when the concession obligation arises under the Financial Enterprise Act, which creates uncertainty for the crowdfunding environment in Norway. In the meantime, public funding has become a widespread form of funding in our neighbouring country Finland and partly also in Sweden and Denmark. In Finland, they have established their own legislation on public funding, which sets a clear framework for an industry in growth. In Sweden, there has been a focus on simplifying and clarifying existing legislation. Both approaches have had a positive impact on public funding in our neighbouring Nordic countries. In the election campaign, the Left was early on in demanding the simplification of Norwegian public funding, and in the autumn one of the first proposals we in the Left delivered on the Stortinget, just better conditions for public funding. When the Jeløya platform was signed, we were pleased to join the other two government parties in simplifying the Norwegian legislation on public finance. During the deliberations on the Left's proposal for a representative on public finance, there was a lot of good news about what should be done. I believe that we need to put in place an EU code on crowdfunding in the long term, but that in the meantime we can do a lot to improve the conditions here at home. We need to simplify the rules and clarify the importance of individual cases in the Financial Corporations Act. At the same time, we must ensure investor protection, and the examples we should then build on are from Sweden and Finland. We have to dry out using the sandbox method to test simplification suggestions before they're put to life. Crowdfunding, or public funding, can revolutionise the financing of Norwegian entrepreneurs and cultural projects. If we succeed in legal work, there is no reason why crowdfunding should not be as large in Norway as in Finland. Finally, the majority of the committee, of which we in the Left are part, believes that the government will implement a simplification through dialogue with the Norwegian public finance community, possibly through a regulatory sandbox for fintech, according to the model from among others. Denmark and/or the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e866	It is an important initiative that the Left has taken through the proposal for a representative to be discussed today. There are great opportunities for public funding. Other countries have come much further in this area, both in terms of the level of public funding, and in terms of finding ways to regulate it that are more conducive to it than we have so far done in Norway. There are considerable opportunities for public funding, not least to help finance different projects in different parts of Norway, thus contributing to both value creation and jobs across Norway. In some of the areas in Norway where there is not so much activity today, and where it is not always so easy to obtain funding through traditional channels, public funding can be an important complement, an important addition, to the ordinary funding channels to which one is more used. I also believe that there are many who want to be able to contribute funds in different projects, and who want to help support good ideas that entrepreneurs have, and contribute a small amount of money. What characterises public funding is that there are a lot of people who contribute less money, so that one can get together to realize projects that might not otherwise have been able to obtain funding. This is precisely why it is important to establish a regulatory framework that can be both simple and unbureaucratic, but at the same time is a regulation that provides investor protection, so that it does not risk being used for fraud, money laundering or other activities that we do not want to have. We believe it is important to maintain the legislation in place with regard to financial industry actors and concession. But in the case of public funding, and this is about smaller investments, either crowdfunding or crowdlining, i.e. whether one can contribute equity or loan capital in projects, the question is what the legislation should be like in that area. Through the hearings, we have been informed by stakeholders that it may be reasonable to have a different regulatory framework for the smaller investments, and that one should not require a concession, but for example. have an authorisation scheme. It is important for those who establish themselves and for those who are to invest that one contributes to seriousness and that one has a clear regulatory framework, but it is also important that the legislation is simple and unbureaucratic to deal with, so that it can help people who have good ideas or who have a little money to contribute can contribute to a new system of public funding. For those who are entrepreneurs, there are great opportunities in this. One thing is that you can get funding for your projects, but one also gets tested out a little bit what kind of market opportunities and interest it is for the ideas you have. If one on a crowdfunding platform publishes information and wants to get in e.g. equity and more on the financing side, one also sees what interest there is around the idea or project that one has. If one does not manage to obtain the necessary funding, it is a barometer of how the idea is met out there. That's very good in the proposal. I want to praise the Left both for taking the initiative and for getting a formulation on it in the government platform. We welcome the fact that there is a government proposal for a concrete future legislation that can facilitate public funding in Norway within a responsible and good regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e879	As several have already pointed out, crowdfunding, or public funding, is a growing way of financing events, projects and business ideas. This type of access to capital can create jobs and also solve societal challenges. That is why the Christian People's Party is positive in simplifying the conditions for public funding. We believe that it is desirable to have European legislation that regulates public funding, but sees the need to simplify current Norwegian legislation until such EU legislation is in place. We also noted that during the consultation there was a great need for simplification of concession rules in order for loans and equity-based public funding to become an attractive source of capital for Norwegian entrepreneurs. The involvement in the consultation should be assessed in the further work of the government on the framework conditions for public funding. In the hearing, the Swedish and Finnish legislation on public funding was also presented as good examples. There may be good sources of inspiration here to facilitate the use of public funding in Norway. It is apparent from the government’s political platform that they will facilitate the use of public funding in Norway. That is why the Christian People's Party believes that the intention behind the proposal is respected, so we support the inclusion of the proposal in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e888	I am committed to facilitating technological development that can benefit the Norwegian economy. Innovation can provide new and efficient ways of providing traditional services and can open up new business models. This may help to provide a better end product for the customer. Folk funding can be an example of this, and more with me are concerned about developments in this field. The government will make it easier to use public finance. I am therefore pleased that the Committee on Finance has taken note of this, and I agree that the Government Declaration respects the intention behind the proposal for a representative. I am concerned that we should have a sound financial market regulation. These rules also apply to public financial financing. It has been my opinion that today’s legislation is working properly and contains established mechanisms to ensure key considerations, which are also relevant to public funding. The scope of financial market regulation must be seen in the context of the important considerations to be taken into account by law. However, I have noticed the impressions that some adjustments and adjustments may be needed in the current legislation. There is something I want to take with me in the further work. A prerequisite for a public finance market in Norway is that users have confidence in the platforms. It is therefore important that we are also aware in this area of the risks posed by business models. It is important that simplification of rules does not go at the expense of key considerations, such as: investor protection. At the same time, current regulation must not place unintentional obstacles to the development of public funding. In Norway, the level of public financial funding has been so far limited. This is due, inter alia, to: Norwegian banks and Norwegian capital markets are functioning well. I still see, as the majority of the committee, the potential of public funding. Public funding can be a useful source of capital, especially for small and start-ups, if the platforms work well. As I mentioned, I have noticed the recordings that have come about the need for adaptations in our legislation until a single European legislation is in place. Two weeks ago, the European Commission presented a proposal for an EU legislation on public finance. It is natural for Norway to follow-up and follow-up. I have also noticed the perceptions of the need for clarification in the current legislation and, in particular, the need to clarify what is considered to be funding in individual cases under the Financial Corporations Act. I will follow that up further in the work on public finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e907	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e912	I find that there is some nuance difference in the committee's attitude and the input to the state council. The Council of State shares the intentions of the Committee and of the proposers, so it is not possible, but I feel that the Committee agrees that there is a need for a Norwegian legislation on public funding. Last year’s financial supervision said that, in their view, there was no need for a special regulation on public finance, and the Council of State was perhaps a little unclear in how it would address this issue further. Is it possible for the Council of State to clarify to the Storting whether there is a need for a strange rule of folk finance or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e920	I really don't think there's so much disagreement about this. The government will make it easier to use people's finance in Norway, and I have commented in my own comments where I think it's natural to start. A natural starting point is to assess the need for clarification of individual cases, which many have also addressed in this debate, but I believe that we should in the long run reach a common European regulatory framework. But for all intents and purposes, I will follow up on this and the position that has come from the Financial Committee. I don't think there's very much disagreement here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e925	On 8 March, the European Commission presented a proposal for a common European rules on public finance. It is a little early to get it agreed and not least to have it followed up in Norway. I don't expect the government to read that proposal in detail, but can the government still comment on what track the government wants to follow here? Would you like to follow the processes in the EU and wait with the adaptation to a regulatory framework in place, possibly involving and influencing the regulatory framework in Europe, or would a set of measures be taken immediately to assess the implementation of changes in the Norwegian legislation in parallel with the EU process?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e930	It is absolutely right that the European Commission put forward a proposal on 8 March, and it is based initially on differences between national regulations. There has been an obstacle to cross-border activities and an integrated, single European market. I believe, as I also said instead, that a common approach in this area is positive. Of course, I will continue to follow the process in the European Union, which leads to Norwegian regulation in legislative development, but I will also follow up what has been mentioned in the vote and in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e935	I interpret the Council of State to the effect that in the follow-up to the Government Declaration there will be work on a national code related to crowdfunding. What is also one of the issues raised in the consultation is whether there should be adaptation and adjustment of existing legislation in Norway today, or whether one should have a completely separate code for crowdfunding. I think that is an important signal to existing actors in the industry. Many people are concerned about and believe that much of the legislation works well, but with some adjustments it will work in line with the intention, while others call for more extensive changes. That's why I would like to get a clarification from the Council of State on what the government is adding up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e942	The starting point for the government is what is on the platform, namely that we will facilitate this market to function even better. So I've noticed that there's a slightly different view of how we're going to do it. The starting point is that we have a pretty good code for this, but there is a need to make some adjustments, some improvements. I'm going to go into all of the recordings that have been made. However, I perceive that there is a common intention in the Storting that we should put in place an even better and more well-functioning regulatory framework on the road, in order to be able to harmonise this across the European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e949	In addition, several actors working with crowdfunding have had views on how the Financial Supervisory Authority interprets the legislation that exists today. One thing is that a worker with new legislation and, where appropriate, adaptations to existing legislation, but the Council of State will also take some initiatives towards the Financial Supervisory Authority regarding the interpretation of the legislation that is there today, or the Minister of Finance believes that the Financial Supervisory Authority has a correct interpretation of the legislation that is currently in place, among other things. the scope of the activity before meeting the restrictions laid down in the legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e954	I think it's a natural part of the follow-up and review that I'm going to do as a result of both the treatment here, and what's in the government's platform. I also want to stress that although this is very positively linked to it, there are also risks associated with it, that a good balance needs to be found, and that of course the Financial Supervisory Authority is doing the job they are set to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e959	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e966	Despite challenging times in the Norwegian economy, record companies have been created in recent years. That's good, but we're not going to go there. Norway shall be one of the countries in the world in which it is easiest to start and operate a business. We're going to pay tribute not only to those who do well in the Olympics, but also to those who create new jobs. Then we have to help entrepreneurs with good, feasible ideas get access to the capital needed to start up. Folk funding, crowdfunding, is such an instrument. In more and more countries and to a greater extent, we see common people joining forces to finance business ideas and projects. It is refreshing and democratizing when a large part of the population engages in value creation and contributes to new jobs. The government will facilitate the use of public funding in Norway and will therefore create a more transparent, tidy and simple regulatory framework. Futurehome is a company in Stavanger that started with the frustration that electronics did not talk to each other. It was a separate switch or remote control for each unit. They therefore developed an app where they could control everything of light, warmth and security in the house – make the house smarter. They presented their solutions to those who were most interested in smart homes, and especially the electricians. And the aid came, not only from Norway, but also from countries like Germany, Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands. With hard work, they reached their goal. The reasons behind Futurehome collected 1.3 million. kr with crowdfunding, and with it was adventured for real. In a few years the company has grown to more than 17 employees, and they have offices both in Stavanger and in Oslo – and the adventure has just begun. I believe that in the future we will see more businesses as Futurehome. If we seize the opportunities, we can both solve the challenges in people's everyday lives and create more jobs. Then we have to have a simple and tidy code for crowdfunding, and we have to fix that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e979	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e995	I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation – we have come to a common voice in this matter. And I want to thank the National Audit Office for a good case-by-case basis. This case is about how the government controls that the state's interests are taken care of by state companies and corporations. It includes wholly owned and jointly owned limited-liability companies, public limited-liability companies, public limited-liability companies, health professionals and special-law companies – a quite comprehensive annual survey. The National Audit Office has made many important findings, has comments on several departments on matters that should be corrected, and has a series of recommendations. The Committee considered that the recommendations of the Riksrevision were well founded and supported throughout. We look forward to the follow-up from the government. As rapporteurs, I will refer to the Committee's comments in general, but will focus a special search light on some aspects. The National Audit Office has examined how the major societal objectives adopted are followed up by both the ministries and the state-owned companies themselves. State-owned companies are subject to the treatment of ownership notices by Storting. The Ownership Communication sets out both general societal objectives for all state ownership and wider societal goals for individual societies. In addition, a number of sectoral policy objectives are formulated directly there. Findings of the Riksrevision show that the companies and departments do not have any systematic follow-up to either social or sectoral policy objectives. The National Audit Office has specifically looked at the companies in categories 3 and 4 of the Ownership Notice. The conclusion is that: for most Category 3 companies, the departments base their assessments of social effects mainly on the financial results of the companies; for many of the companies in category 4 – those subject to sectoral policy objectives – there is little clear expectation of the objectives of the company; most of the category 4 companies set their own targets for sectoral policy tasks, while fewer targets for efficient operation It is thought-provoking that government does not follow better-adapted societal goals systematically. The state's ownership of the company is not based on purely income relationships, but on social relationships. In particular, the department does not measure the companies according to the social objectives achieved, and the companies do not report this on their own. The size of the government expects it to follow its recommendations. The next thing I want to make a few comments is about the review of different health issues by the National Audit Office. Access control with health information: Of course, patients must be sure that their health information is treated in a safe manner and does not end up in the wrong hands. Therefore, it is very serious that information is still available on missing information security for patients in health services. In several cases, the national audit has highlighted weaknesses in the information security of healthcare professionals. Nevertheless, there are still breaches of information security. The Committee is concerned about whether the Ministry of Health and Health and regional health professionals are particularly concerned about information security. The work on information security has been ongoing for a long time, several actions have been postponed, and it is unclear when planned actions will be implemented and take effect. The Committee finds it alarming and highly critical that it is unclear when documented weaknesses in information security will be corrected. We ask the Ministry of Health and Welfare to give this matter a high priority in the future. The development of the later time in this field underlines the need for exactly this. The next point is cleaning. The amount of reinhabitation of patients who have been discharged from somatic hospitals has increased. The cleaning rate is particularly interesting because there may be an expression that there is poor quality in the patient treatment process. In 2016, there was a double higher number of redundancies among patients who were outsourced to the municipal health service than in patient groups otherwise. The information between healthcare providers and the local health services on the outsourcing of patients is often insufficient and does not provide a quality guarantee of a holistic and coordinated patient profile. This has to be taken seriously. A central starting point for the whole interaction reform was that communication between hospitals and municipalities should be optimal. This is not the case today, six years after the reform came into force. Finally, I would like to link some comments to beekeeping. The National Audit Office reviewed whether the regional health professionals with underlying health professionals follow up the reporting rules for beekeeping to be added to them. The main findings of the study show that adding to health care services reports little use of beekeeping and that the systems established to report it are being used to a small extent. In addition, regional health professionals have not had enough follow-up to government demands in the first meeting. The Committee believes that it is critical that only 1,400 out of 8,300 added to the investigation carried out by the Riksrevision on reportable health bee jobs have been reported. The figures show that there is a need for greater attention to be given to this issue, in order to prevent unlucky mixing of roles and to ensure independence and trust in the health care system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1037	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a thorough review of a matter that is important for our overview of the governance of state companies. The rapporteur has been clear on what is also clear to the Riksaudition that, in terms of both Category 3 companies and societal impacts, it does not consider financial performance and that it is important to set own requirements for sector policy objectives in the Category 4 companies. I'd like to stress that, because it's very important why we have that division into categories that we have. And when someone has special purposes, some of the outcome goals should be the achievement of the special purposes. However, I will deal primarily with what is under the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and let me begin with the Wine Monopoly. It's quite remarkable that there's a matter here for the Grand Council, which has said a number of times that there has to be a change here – and then the Council of State just leaves it. We can't have it like that. That is why we are asking for clear proposals for changes to the Wine Monopoly Act, and for us to have proper ownership in place, in line with state principles of good ownership. But let me underline what's going on in beekeeping: I perceived it this way during the presentation we had with the Riksrevision, that it's very serious that there are 8,300 who should have stated beekeeping, which doesn't. Most employers would not accept anything like that. But it is also a little special that when some of the explanation seems to be that here it may be difficult to understand the legislation, we got the answer when we asked the National Auditor, that among other things. In the case of ambulance drivers, the percentage of those who had bee jobs — and who had said they had it — was much higher. So they get it. Based on the recent discussion on beekeeping in the health sector, one might get the impression that some of the reasons for this continuing are that, in the debate that has taken place in the public sector, the Council of State has, in fact, long been defending beekeeping. This may sometimes be true, but it must be in line with the understanding of the main employer and not with the interests of the main employer. In the debate that has been so far, it has not seemed that the Council of State – to put it mildly – has had some ‘pressure’ from the top of. I hope that the post the Council of State will hold here, can confirm that he is now addressing that situation. There is, of course, an obvious risk that there may be a role conflict when health professionals in the public sector work at the same time as health professionals in the private sector. So finally to information security, where the committee uses the term "strongly critical", which is a concept we don't use very often, and which is very powerful. It is because of a situation for which the Council of State has previously expressed concern, following questions here in the Grand Duchy, but also developments while the Committee was dealing with this matter, when we were given new examples of uncertainty related to information security, which led a joint committee to find out that it was right to use the term ‘strongly critical’. In the eagerness for outsourcing and private solutions, especially if they’re going out of the country – and I’m not saying it can’t be right to have that kind of cooperation for public agencies as well – it’s vital that information security is in place, no matter who’s going to be doing it. In addition, I can also say that it is good insofar as we can develop that competence in public and in Norway, and not depend on others to solve the advanced information tasks, especially when they relate to privacy and information security.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1054	The Court of Auditors’ comments and recommendations on effective operation are relevant to my ownership. However, I would like to make some comments on the recommendations in the light of Norsk Healthnet, AS Vinmonopolet and some of the issues that have also been raised in the submissions. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry set its own expectations for the sectoral policy objectives of the companies and their efficient operation, in order to ensure that the activities achieve the objectives underlying their ownership. The Governing Boards need to develop and report on objectives and indicators that cover their country’s objectives of ownership. In the business meeting of Norsk Healthnet, I have requested that they ensure that appropriate indicators are in place for the activities. Furthermore, the State undertaking shall conduct benchmarking with other relevant activities in order to develop knowledge for enhanced efficient operation in this way. AS Vinmonopolet is an alcohol policy instrument intended to ensure the responsible sale of alcoholic beverages. The company is part of a larger package of instruments to limit the use of alcohol, and the social effects will have to be seen in the context of the other instruments. The company is governed by an annual letter of assignment describing the company's function, main priorities and areas of activity and what the company should report on. The company itself has set targets for the responsible sale of alcohol and reports to the owner on target achievement. I am of the opinion that these cover the purpose of the company. Furthermore, the Riksrevision has specifically referred to the ownership management of the AS Vinmonopolet. Although the Wine Monopoly Act today does not authorise a formal owner-management arena, today’s mission letter system to the company takes care of the need for ownership management. However, I agree that a formal arena should be established where the owner meets the company's board of directors and management. This will be followed up in the ongoing work on amendments to the Wine Monopoly Act. The National Audit Office has controlled companies under the Ministry of Knowledge engaged in research or research-related activities receiving grants from the Norwegian Research Council, the Ministry of Knowledge, the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs and the Directorate of Health. A review of research and competence centres organised outside the specialist health service receiving grants from the Health Directorate is being carried out. The review has covered the management of grants, the societal mission and the gradual conversion of research funding. I continue this work by entrusting the Health Directorate, in cooperation with the other grant managers, to follow the recommendations made in the National Audit Office's report. The National Audit Office’s examination of hospital effectiveness shows that hospitals have improved their effectiveness compared to 2013. The National Audit Office believes that the Department has followed Storting’s expectations to streamline patient treatment. The findings suggest that improvement in efficiency does not appear to have gone at the expense of quality. The efficient operation of hospitals may be a prerequisite for good quality in the supply. For example, efficiency can release resources that can instead be used for quality improvement. Furthermore, services provided with high efficiency and good organisation could be perceived as good quality services for the patient in response to healthcare. The National Audit Office points out that there are still differences in effectiveness between hospitals. This suggests that there is still the potential to improve the effectiveness of patient treatment. The National Audit Board's recommendations have been followed up in the governance dialogue that I have with the health regions in 2018. The national audit indicates that the extent of the rehabilitation of patients who have been discharged from somatic hospitals has increased slightly between 2011 and 2016. Information on the outsourcing of patients does not have a quality that ensures a holistic and coordinated patient course. Health enterprises do not follow up well enough that employees are aware of the measures and comply with the requirements imposed when outsourcing patients to the community health service. According to the National Audit Office’s assessment, it is possible to reduce the amount of unnecessary reintroduction of patients to be posted to municipalities through better interaction between service levels. Older, vulnerable patients are dependent on well-coordinated services. This presupposes that the municipality is provided with good quality information about patients before they are published by hospitals. I therefore agree with the Riksrevision's consideration of the need for better compliance with routines and regulations in the context of the outsourcing of patients. Regulation on management and quality improvement in healthcare, which entered into force in 2017, shall contribute to this. Health professionals must also have tools to help patients receive coordinated services. The development of a common list of medicinal products available to healthcare professionals across service levels will contribute to this. The same applies to the continuous digital journal solution One incorporates – one journal. Wholeness and coherence are also important issues in the Communication Lifelong and in the next National Health and Sickness Plan. With regard to the issues raised in the debate, which are also mentioned, concerning access management and information security related to patient safety data, I refer to the presentation I made on that topic in the Storting recently. When it comes to the question of beekeeping, I'm 100 pst. agree with the representative Dag Terje Andersen that it is too bad when so few report bee jobs to the employer, when there is already a very clear part of health professionals’ legislation. This is simple and should have been done. It's also something that I'll follow up on the health regions. But I would like to stress that it will not help to increase the reporting of beekeeping by creating the impression that beekeeping itself is a problem. On the contrary, beekeeping for people who work in healthcare is a prerequisite for too much of what we do in healthcare. For example, it will not be possible to train new doctors, nurses and others without the bee jobs of those who also work in the services linked to our universities and colleges. It would be quite demanding for community health services if people who also work in specialist health services do not have bee jobs in municipalities, and it will also be difficult to develop, for example. a profitable health industry in Norway, which is an explicit policy objective, if not those who work in the largest part of our healthcare system, namely public health, have the opportunity to start up and run health business. That's why I'm concerned, and will always be concerned, also stressing that having a beekeeping is not a problem in itself, as long as there's transparency about it, and as long as one fits the sense of role and has it clear. Therefore, health regions need to be better informed, and health professionals with bee jobs need to be better reported, in line with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1088	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1093	Bierverv is only a problem when it is not reported. This is pointed out both by the Committee and by the National Audit Office. To take this seriously and get 100 pst. reporting must be the objective of this matter. My question is really related to some interesting interview conducted by the National Audit Office. They tell us about hospital patients who have waited to print out patients because they consider the municipal supply to be too bad and thus have held the patient back in hospital. It can be seen that municipal services in many places are unable to meet the needs of patients, often patients with complex medical conditions. I have a slightly open question: what is the assessment of this relationship by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1100	Firstly, I think it is wise for doctors to consider offers that the patient should receive in the municipalities when they also assess whether it is right to print out the patient. It is in line with good practice and also in line with the technical guidelines. It is therefore important that we stress that the individual doctor in charge must have the opportunity to make such assessments. Then there's a great variation in the quality and the supply between the municipalities. This is one of the reasons why the government has presented and adopted a primary health service notification – the first of its kind – which is just about how to ensure both the development of better quality of municipal services, reduce variation and, not least, gain more qualitative knowledge about the variations in services in municipalities. That is why we are now establishing, among other things: a quality register for municipal health and care services, as we have for specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1107	Finally, a question of access control, even if the Council of State has briefed on it a little while ago. There has been a warning about a national review of access control, because we know that access control practices are very different and that some enterprises – showing the review of the National Audit Office – have made very own assessments that could be on the edge of data protection legislation. Work on a national review was stopped. That happened when this happened in the press, and it started to be a while ago, and a lot has happened on this particular field of the page. When can the Storting expect a national review of access control and, where appropriate, a proposal for national rules on access control for patient information?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1112	My opinion is that that review is now taking place in the health regions, and that this is being worked on. I also see that what is important is that one follows the rules that are actually there in this area. Greater efforts are also being made to achieve this through the implementation and, of course, the application of the EU Data Protection Directive to healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1117	So there is no national work going on to establish national rules on access control?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1122	Yes, as I said, there is a review going on to ensure that health regions comply with the legislation in this area, and there is a great deal of work going on following the mission we gave as a result of the national audit report in this area. At the same time, work is also being done on legislation relating, inter alia, to: the introduction of the Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1128	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1133	Good performance objectives and indicators are a central tool for the work of a board and for the follow-up of the owner. That's why it's very good that the Riksrevision highlights the ministry's work on this. I will link some comments to the study and to the follow-up of the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. The National Audit Office, as previously mentioned in the debate, has examined the extent to which category 3 and 4 companies have and reports on, targets and indicators for sectoral or societal achievement and efficient operation, and the extent to which departments follow up and assess this. In general, the National Audit Service recommends that: ‘the departments of the ownership dialogue clearly express their expectations as to what companies should achieve from societal or sectoral policy objectives in order to achieve the country’s objectives of ownership’. The Committee is also concerned about this and the ‘reduces more attention from the ministries on the social objectives’. So let me start by stressing that I want to be concerned that the state that owns has attention to all the objectives and justifications of state ownership, including sectoral or societal achievement and efficient operation. I'll get closer to it. The National Audit Board further recommends that: «departements vis-à-vis companies in category 3 have a clearer expectation of the social impact of the companies and the requirement that the companies report how the business activities perform the social effects that the State wishes with ownership». The Committee is also concerned about this and points out that: ‘a more systematic and clear reporting on the societal impact of companies would be useful’. I agree that there is room for the NFD to request more than today that companies report on how their activities contribute to the societal effects that the State wants. Some companies already report this way today, but there is reason why more companies should do it. We need to evaluate it. I will also consider the need to put concrete expectations into the societal impact of companies. In most cases, it will require some thorough assessments, in order to avoid companies being guided by inappropriate targets. In addition, we will consider whether it is necessary, to a greater extent than at present, to obtain information on the social impact of companies from sources other than companies, i.e. from outside. With regard to the companies in category 4, the Riksrevision recommends that the departments: «sets its own expectations as to the sectoral policy objectives and efficient operation of companies, in order to ensure that their activities contribute to the achievement of the objectives underlying their ownership»; and ‘follows up and reports on the objectives and indicators of the Governing Boards covering the country’s objectives with ownership’. The Committee asks the government to follow up these recommendations, and I will. There is always room for further strengthening the exercise of ownership, and this may be such an area. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries, we will look at how we can strengthen our efforts to monitor the development of good governance objectives, strategies and indicators that support the state's ownership objectives and report on them. We must be able to challenge the companies in assessing this and to put concrete performance expectations where appropriate. Finally, the Riksrevision recommends that: «the cross-ministerial forums are used for the exchange of experience and coordination in order to ensure that all departments have sufficient competence to challenge the boards and companies on whether the objectives set for the activities contribute to the achievement of the objectives pursued by the State as a basis for ownership.» These are the arenas we have good experience of using, and we're going to continue. In these forums, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has already drawn attention to and will continue to do so, inter alia, in the future. as a result of the recommendations of the National Audit Office. This will also be a theme for other arenas within and outside the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. Target management is an area where we work to improve the follow-up of owners. We have come a long way in following up business and too many companies also of sectoral policy objectives. We work to achieve good target and result management for all sectoral policy companies. With the grips I've mentioned here, we should take a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1185	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1201	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1217	In two weeks it is 28 years since the cruel night, since the disaster fire at «Scandinavian Star». 159 people died. The disaster affected an entire people, but mainly survivors, survivors and relatives. There have been many, long years of investigations and investigations. There have been many and long years and many disappointments for all those who want answers to what and who triggered the events of this fateful night. Survivors, survivors and relatives have been in a difficult situation, and there are still many unanswered questions. I would like to begin by saying that, although the members of the Committee may not be able to fully understand what this feels like, it has been expressed in the whole of the Committee's work with compassion for those who were so deeply affected by the fire, both in April 1990 and in the future, and it is important for me to express this compassion today. I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation in a difficult matter. It has been difficult to get involved in a very extensive material. It has been difficult to be reminded of the cruel hours, and it has been very difficult to meet the demand that we have to find answers. The Committee has therefore chosen to devote a good deal of time to this matter. An overall committee has done a thorough job, thus showing respect for those who wanted to meet the committee. The task of the Committee is to examine the report of the Investigation Commission which the Stortinget decided to establish in the spring of 2015. The Commission’s report was submitted to Stortinget before the summer of 2017. It is not that the committee should conduct its own scrutiny, but it has nevertheless, and of course, been natural to make a thorough selection of several of the theories and concrete references that have been lifted by the groups we have met. The Committee has met all the groups of interested parties who have wished to meet the Committee, and the Committee has stressed the importance of giving them a good opportunity to present their views on the incident itself, the follow-up to the disaster and the follow-up to this day. The Committee has had consultations on the matter but has also had its own meetings with the various groups in order to allow further deepening of feedback. This has made many contributions to the Committee's work. The Committee has met with the Support Group for the Survivors and Survivors of the ‘Scandinavian Star’ and the Foundation for the Investigation of the ‘Scandinavian Star’ Homicide Fire several times. The Chairman of the Committee and the Advocate-General met with the Danish Support Association, following the ‘Scandinavian Star’ and the widow, following an identifiable Danish citizen who was previously designated as a potential firemaker. The dialogue with these groups has clarified four themes that have been the main focus of the Committee's further work: shipowners' liability, ownership and financial conditions related thereto; Fire course and cause public follow-up of survivors, survivors and dependants public follow-up to maritime safety Both the interest groups, the Commission and the Committee appear to agree on the following: There have been several fires on board the ship. These are fires which, in all likelihood, have not occurred by themselves or for technical reasons. Although the follow-up of public authorities at the acute stage was essentially a good offer, it is evident that at that time there was little experience as a basis for follow-up over time. Trading took place at a time when the requirements of maritime safety were seriously flawed in relation to the requirements in force today. The responsibilities around the ship turned out to be unclear. The examination after the tragedy was demanding in many ways. Due to the fact that the ship was on a route between Denmark and Norway, two countries were involved. In addition, Sweden was part of this since the ship was roped into the port of Sweden, and the fire was handled from there by personnel. An agreement was made that Denmark would deal with the investigation of ownership, operational responsibilities and any economic motives, and that Norway would investigate the fire and technical functions. The Committee has been met by the fact that there were economic reasons behind the disaster fire. This issue has been addressed by the Danish investigation and judicial system, and the Committee notes that no information on this has been provided that has not previously been known to the Commission. Since there is a case-by-case judgment in Danish law, we do not regard this as a central issue for the Norwegian investigation. With regard to the course of fire, the Committee has met with extensive theories on what may have happened and what may not have happened. In this area, too, the Committee notes that the information we have been confronted with does not add anything new or point anything other than information that the Commission has included in its investigation. The Committee has spent a lot of time on this topic and is aware that different environments of competence are different. Shipfires are demanding and unpredictable, and distance in time for the event itself makes it extra demanding. It has been nice to experience the commitment we have met through the meetings with these groups in order for us, as a society, to learn from the tragedy, to do everything we can to ensure that it does not happen again, and not least that if that happens, we must have good practice for action and follow-up. Under the Rules of Procedure, the Committee has sent the Commission's report to the Government for an opinion and received a reply from the Minister for Justice and Security. In addition, the Committee has asked for further clarification from the Minister of Industry on what has been followed up in the field of maritime safety. It seems obvious that this tragedy clearly provided experience as a basis for improvement in subsequent events that have required public follow-up. The follow-up of all the people affected by the tragedy has shown major shortcomings in the transfer of responsibilities between state and immediate aid and community assistance in everyday life. Not least, there has been a lack of understanding that such a tragedy, in combination with constant reminders through investigation and investigation, is still very stressful. Long-term effects also appear to be underestimated. There is every reason to believe that this is experience that will be included in the further establishment of crisis preparedness, along with experience from other events. The interview-based survey among stakeholders is an important contribution to this. I would also like to remind you that there are five regional resource centres on traumatic stress, and guidance for disaster follow-up has been developed. When maritime safety is to be followed up after such a tragedy, it is important to remember that so many years later we are talking about a completely different age in terms of ship construction, the use of materials, alarm systems, crew training and legislation. That's good. Letters from the Minister of Industry point out that ship traffic today is subject to completely different requirements from those in force in 1990 and that the experience of ‘Scandinavian Star’ has contributed to knowledge as a basis for change. In 2007, there was a whole new Ship Safety Act aimed at ensuring safe life, health, environment and material values by facilitating good ship safety and safety management. In 2013, the Ship Labour Act came into force, a law that also has a major impact on maritime safety. However, the Committee needs to point out that there appears to be a clear lesson in the fact that it will be crucial for the future to have clear borders for the liability of owners, tenants and operators in maritime transport. This is absolutely necessary to ensure the security and predictability of possible incidents. Finally, in its work, the Committee asked for a meeting with the head of the investigation commission to clarify how they have dealt with and examined the issues and theories with which they have been met. The Committee experienced good and well-founded answers to its questions and understanding of the Commission’s work. The Committee has concluded that they are behind the Commission’s conclusions. The Committee hopes that all parties feel that they have been taken seriously and have been respected. The conclusion of the Committee may not satisfy all, at least not in all areas, but it has been the task of the Committee to assess the conclusions of the Commission as a whole. For the Committee’s part, a very important input into this whole has been feedback from the interested party that it must also be correct at a time to close the case. An overall committee considers it unlikely that 28 years after the accident it will be possible to produce new and decisive facts, and considers it inappropriate, in the light of this and in the interests of interested parties, for the matter to be closed now, that the Storting should carry out further investigations in the case. I think it is important to repeat and clarify an apology to the deceased after the identifiable passenger whom without witness observations or technical evidence was designated as a possible fire extinguisher without the possibility of counter-dictation. It was unfortunate that this was also included in a previous handling of the matter in Stortinget. I look forward to the Storting meeting today behind this apology. The Committee also supports and will continue to follow the wish of those concerned that we learn from what has happened. The Committee will again sympathise with all those concerned for the implications of both the tragedy and the investigation, and not least the challenge of the fact that more questions have still not been answered after 28 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1283	The background to the serious matter we are dealing with today is – as the case-rapporteur said – a terrible disaster that has marked Norwegian society, and has marked the lives of individuals in Norwegian society since 1990. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his thorough work on the matter, for his good cooperation with the Committee, and not least for a thorough review here now. In particular, I would like to stress that the sympathy expressed by the rapporteur is something to which the Committee agrees. I would also like to thank you for the many contributions we have received – from the survivors, from interested people who have committed themselves to finally trying to find answers. Our work has been based on the Commission's report, but it has been useful to follow the Commission's report that we have received such thorough input as we have. Two of the issues that have been central are the issue of ownership, shipowner's responsibility, on which the rapporteur was involved, and the other is related to fire and fire. The many detailed input we have received has given – as the rapporteur said – the basis for once again to ask the Commission's head, with professional assistance, and to try out the claims and whether they have been thoroughly assessed by the Commission. We have received an in-depth answer to this – that unfortunately, it is as far as one can clarify some of the questions, but that it is also not that one can demonstrate a different course of events than the Commission did. Many of the recordings we have received have been – as the rapporteur said – recordings about whether this will make a difference. Have we learned anything? Can we bring something so that there will be no accidents in the future, and that in the future we will deal with accidents in a better way? In particular, there is reason for public authorities to take self-criticism related to health follow-up, especially in the long-term health follow-up, as the first treatment of the Storting underlined, but as many feel has not been good enough. In this area, developments have been made in the future, including: with the experience of this disaster, contributing to the building of crisis teams, to the construction of appliances that deal with the immediate situation has been significantly altered and to the improvement of the long-term follow-up to health. So that's the other thing about maritime safety, and that's an area where we through the Commission have got a review of the changes that have happened. There have been changes in law, there have been changes in regulations, and not least it was important for us in the follow-up to make sure that the legislative and regulatory changes actually lead to a change in practice, that the new rules are being tested. We have received a good answer to that, as the rapporteur was in the Chamber. This does not mean that one cannot further develop maritime safety, and I would like to emphasise in particular what the rapporteur was also concerned with, relating to ownership issues. It is necessary through Norwegian ship registers, Norwegian regulations, but not least in international cooperation and international agreements to provide guarantees that we will know who is responsible for the individual ship. We've also heard a lot of good recordings and had the opportunity to test them to the Commission. The police also examined the matter again in 2014–2016 without finding the basis for any new appeal, which is, of course, a bad conclusion, since we should all have known even more precisely who did what and why what happened happened happened. I agree with the rapporteur's special regret, especially because in large-scale documents in the 1991 case a suspect was identified. The Commission now clearly states that there was no basis for that suspicion. It is a heavy matter, and it is difficult not to be able to give all the answers. It is good to be able to include those recordings that have been about improving health follow-up, improving maritime safety, improving the public's ability to deal with such situations. And with that, I fully agree with the position that the rapporteur has set out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1310	On Saturday, 7 April 1990, 159 people were killed by one or more unknown perpetrators on board the ‘Scandinavian Star’ as a result of fire detection several places on the boat. The circumstances surrounding the arson fire have been very much debated, and many have rightly not settled down with the police investigation and commissions that have been reduced in the past. It is understandable that the response is requested, and it is bad that such a grotesque crime is not fully resolved. When Stortinget decided in May 2015 to appoint an independent audit commission, it was to try to find out what actually happened this night and to consider further follow-up of the case, including the custody of the survivors and relatives. The Commission was not to look at the criminal aspects since this was carried out by the police investigation, which was resumed in 2014. Thus, the case was under investigation when the investigation commission was set up. In the case of the course of fire, the Commission has taken particular note of conditions which have been disputed in the post-fire period. One of the most controversial is the fire course itself. The first review report concluded that there were two fireplaces for the fire and that enough combustible material was on board to burn as long as the fire actually lasted. The Foundation's investigation of the Scandinavian Star arson fire believes there have been several arne sites on board, and that it must have been fed combustible material in order for the fire to reach and last as long as up to 38 hours. It was claimed that the fire has moved around the vessel in an unnatural way, and that the only explanation for this is that it has been supplied with combustible liquid. As elected representatives, we have no premise or special competence to assess whether one or the other explanation of what actually happened is correct or crazy, but we have noticed that the Commission's expertise believes that the fires on board the ship may have occurred as a result of the heat spread via the steel structure. In addition, parts of the constructive fire safety failed. This, together with the lack of early phase fire control, led to a rapid out of control of the fire and spread to large parts of the ship. Since the ship was hijacked in 2004, we will never get a clear answer to how the fire could get the extent it got. There have been a number of theories over the years that the development of the ‘Scandinavian Star’ fire was not due to natural accompaniment fire, but to deliberate sabotage operations by crews on board the boat. The party noted that the review Commission did not find any points of view for any of the sabotage theories put forward. We have no preconditions for contesting the conclusion drawn by the Commission, but are humble for other plausible explanations to be also possible. With regard to the follow-up of relatives, we have noticed that many even today have aftereffects of the Scandinavian Star fire. Fortunately, much has changed since then, based on this fire and other serious incidents such as the Jotun fire, the Alexander L. Kielland accident and the Partnair accident – to name a few. A national health emergency plan places overall responsibility for coordination on the part of the Health Directorate in most major national events, and the Health Directorate has issued guidance and guidelines for both psychosocial and somatic care following crises, accidents and disasters. Local authorities and specialist health services have been given clearer responsibility for the follow-up of this type of incident. The Progress Party shares the view of a Joint Committee that current knowledge and practices ensure a much better long-term follow-up of those affected after a disaster than before. As far as maritime safety is concerned, we refer to the review carried out by the Review Commission, which shows that a large part of the recommendations of the Schei Commission have been implemented in Norwegian law. Therefore, passenger ferries have hopefully become safer over time, so that we avoid such events in the future. In the case of police treatment, they have not found technical evidence to confirm the sabotage theory. Furthermore, the police investigation has not resulted in any new information suggesting that the transfer or insurance of the ship could provide the basis for an economically motivated fire founding. We find it unlikely, like the police and the prosecution, that a new investigation or investigation will be able to produce new and decisive facts in the case of «Scandinavian Star». At the same time, we realize that the investigation in the initial phase could have been better and wider. The Progress Party, like the rest of its members, will express its full understanding that not all interested parties are fully satisfied with the ‘Scandinavian Star’ review reports, but will at the same time support the wish that this case be brought to an end in the course of the proceedings of the Stortinge. We will also express an understanding of the frustration, despair, anger and grief that affected and left behind have felt and felt as a result of the fact that the matter has not been fully resolved, and that the perpetrator or perpetrators are not charged with liability and conviction. This case has been one of the most difficult issues I have been away with as a politician. I believe it has been very important, and I would like to commend both the case rapporteur and the committee chairman together with the rest of my colleagues in the committee for dealing with this matter with the respect it deserves – patience and use the time, understanding and necessary fineness to deal with such a demanding matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1335	I want to join the previous posts and thank the case spokesperson for a thorough job. We know this huge disaster – 159 people died, 24 of them children. The relatives' organisations have been indestructible in their efforts to find the truth. This applies to the Foundation for Fire Investigation, the Support Group for the Survivors and Other Individuals. We here in Stortinget owe them enormous thanks for the work they've been doing for many years. I want to commend the efforts, the inauguration, the seriousness and the thoroughness that these two organizations in particular have endured for many years. There is reason to argue that without their efforts the police had hardly taken up the investigation again, and the Storting had hardly carried out this investigation again. There's something to think about, both for the police and for the Stortinget. In parallel with the fact that the Stortinget created a new investigation, the police took action. After two years of new investigations and re-examination of previously analysed material, the police concluded that it was not possible to provide evidence that could be charged and convicted of arson by night until 7 April 1990. It's a regrettable decision. The legal follow-up of "Scandinavian Star" has been a tragedy. I fully understand that the survivors and relatives feel anger over the decision of the police. In the police too, disappointment is great among the many dedicated police and civil investigators who have tried to investigate the killing critically. The police had no doubt that they were faced with a gross crime, that the fire was actually in fact on the ground, and that the fire was killing 159 people, but unfortunately they did not manage to figure it out. Now it's 28 years since the crime scene happened, and Storting's second investigation is a fact. The Committee has reviewed the work of the Commission critically. We've checked out the Commission's work on what's coming from different actors. The answers have been elucidating. Unfortunately, we have not found the basis for further investigation from Stortinget's side. So we're in a situation where we have to evaluate whether we're going to go further. The decisive thing for the future is that we really take the heavy lesson of ‘Scandinavian Star’ as a follow-up to the police and the judiciary, in the follow-up to the specialist and municipal health services, emergency preparedness, follow-up of relatives and survivors in acute phases, in health care, well-being and other services, in maritime safety. In many of these areas, there have been great improvements, but there are still very unclear and unclear responsibilities at sea, and there is still room for improvement in maritime safety conditions. Together with the rest of the committee, I will finally complain to the family, especially to the widows after the person identified at previous treatment in 1991, about the unfair debt that was directed against that person.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1352	The tragic fire at "Scandinavian Star" in 1990 made a strong impression on all of us. Even if we're a big country, we're a little people. Those who lost their affections and affections got their lives changed forever. Many have later asked questions about how this could happen. It is right to do so, both to clarify the responsibilities of this tragic fire and to learn lessons for the future. It is important to stress that the Storting has taken seriously the questions that have been asked. The case spokesperson has done well in a clean and special way for the extensive work that has been done to obtain facts and clear answers. There is little to add and nothing to subtract from. The Committee considers that it is unlikely that new investigations or disclosures will be able to bring new and decisive facts to the fore. 28 years have passed – that was as far as it was possible to come. Then it is important in the future that the board of directors and those operating maritime transport take the lessons of this tragic event seriously and follow up. A lesson from this and other tragic events in the history of our nation suggests that the police must carry out thorough investigations and follow up all the traces behind such events, so that one can clarify the actual situation and not have to review and review for decades after. It eats up everyone involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1361	The fire at "Scandinavian Star" is one of the greatest disasters we've ever had in the post-war period. There are many who are left with deep wounds. The fire has created a lot of sleep and pain. The fire stands as a dark chapter in our history. Too many relatives and survivors there is an event that will never let go of the roof. I think everyone who has tried to figure out what happened on that Friday in 1990 has had one important goal for the eye, namely to get the facts on the table, so it could be a little easier to put the hurt behind it. I think everyone involved has wanted to find out the facts about what really happened. Unfortunately, it has proved to be difficult to form a complete picture of it all. After the fire it was known to the Norwegian police who investigated the matter. The person whom the police assumed was the perpetrator, died even in the fire, and the case was dismissed. It was then agreed that Denmark should investigate ship safety breaches, and the Supreme Court gave its judgment in November 1993. Three persons were convicted, including the shipowner and the captain on board, for breaches of security. In 1996 new information was provided which led to the request by the aid group after ‘Scandinavian Star’ for the resumption of the shipowner’s liability, but it was rejected due to limitation periods in Denmark. But they did not give up hope that the facts they had provided would be the subject of investigation or investigation. Since then, many new information has also been made available. Time has passed, and battles have been fought. Today we stand here with a report to Stortinget after the Stortinget asked for such a report. The mandate was also given by Stortinget. Of course, the Commission would not take a decision on issues of criminal liability, as they have not. The Commission was to assess whether the actual conditions described during the previous treatment of the fire by the Storting provide a correct and adequate picture. Now we've got the report. In the Committee we have had consultations on the matter, where the Support Group and the Foundation have been listened to. Some people may experience that new rounds open old wounds. I understand that. It could be bad. Others may feel that it has been absolutely necessary to take a new round. There may be different experiences. I respect that, too. Not all questions can be answered, unfortunately, and there will always be some unanswered questions associated with the great tragedy on 7 April 1990. But we're going to learn from what happened. We're going to learn that the kind of events have to meet better, more professionally and not least with a closer follow-up by the authorities to those who were hit. Through the recommendation of the entire Committee, it is important to recognise that not all interested parties will be fully satisfied with the review reports for ‘Scandinavian Star’. The Committee understands this. I understand this. At the same time, I understand the wish that this matter can now be brought to an end. That is – for everyone affected and affected by what happened, the matter will never be closed. It will live in the body and in the memories, and it will always be part of the story that neither can nor shall be forgotten. Unfortunately, some review will not remedy this. That is why I and the Christian People's Party, like the rest of the Committee, agree with the police and prosecution authorities that it is unlikely that new investigation or investigation will be able to produce new and decisive facts in the case of «Scandinavian Star». That is why the Christian People's Party also supports the proposal for a decision in the vote. I would otherwise like to refer to the good and thorough examination of the matter by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1376	I would like to refer to the statements made by the President-in-Office, to the statements made by the rapporteur, to the statements made by the Committee as a whole and to the vote on behalf of the Government, to the sympathy of those concerned who have been expressed there. Survivors and survivors of the «Scandinavian Star» raise legitimate criticism of the psychosocial follow-up in the post-disaster period. The report of the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, NKVTS, on the experience and health of survivors and survivors clearly points out that the fire had major consequences for many, and that the satisfaction of the auxiliaries was low. It is regrettable and sad that so many have not received help they have needed, and that the health consequences have become great for individuals. I would therefore also take this opportunity to express my compassion for the survivors and the survivors. Although 28 years have passed since this tragic event, the study by NKVTS has shown that the health plagues of many have persisted. That's something we need to learn from. At the same time, it is important to say that the follow-up was based on current legislation, knowledge and experience. That is why I am very pleased that Grete Holen from the Support Group for Survivors and left behind after the "Scandinavian Star" in the committee hearing stressed the importance of learning from the experience of the disaster. It is also my experience in meeting with others who have been hit by disasters, or have been hit by health defects and deficiencies, that they have a genuine desire that their negative experience lead to something positive for others, and that others should not experience the same. The hole raised in its contributions to the hearing, inter alia: promote the importance of proactive and long-term follow-up and the link between the provision of assistance, the state of health and the confidence of the auxiliaries. The experience gained in the NKVTS report has been very important in developing psychosocial preparedness in Norway in the decades following the ‘Scandinavian Star’. The experience of the ‘Scandinavian Star’ disaster and other serious incidents after 1990, such as the terrorist attack on 22 July, has led to several significant changes in the knowledge base and organisation of psychosocial preparedness in Norway. National Health Protection Plan gives Health Directorate overall responsibility for coordination on most major events. It shall prevent the lack of coordination of auxiliary operations experienced by survivors and survivors in the post-emergency phase. Through the publication and updating of guides and guidelines for both psychosocial and somatic care after crises, accidents and disasters, the Health Directorate has made clear both the responsibilities of municipalities and specialist health services and what is best practice for follow-up. As from 1 January of this year, the amendments to health legislation also entered into force. Now it is clear that municipalities have a duty to provide psychosocial protection and follow-up. As for municipalities, there is an obligation for health regions to have a prepared health preparedness in their area and an obligation to provide assistance in the event of an accident. There is no doubt that we have learned from the ‘Scandinavian Star’ accident, the disaster that hit, and other major and serious events since 1990, and that psychosocial preparedness and follow-up are more knowledge-based, systematic, proactive and long-term today. Overall, healthcare handled events better on 22 July. At the same time, experience from the follow-up of survivors and survivors following the terrorist attack on 22 July shows that there is still a need to develop both the knowledge base and the systematics of psychosocial follow-up. And even though a number of follow-up actions have been undertaken, even after this, every incident is unique. I believe, however, that today we have a much better and more comprehensive system, with clearer lines of responsibility, which makes us much better equipped to deal with major events. The treatment of the Great Britain today is an end by the authorities to this disaster. But the lessons of the Scandinavian Star disaster we're never going to finish.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1397	Tragedy with what happened on "Scandinavian Star" shows how disastrous a fire on a ship can be. Unfortunately, legislative changes to achieve better maritime safety often occur after serious events. Tragic events such as the ‘Estonia’ Ulukka, the ‘Sleipner’ Sea and, here, the ‘Scandinavian Star’, each have a distinct and collective effect on maritime safety in the following years. And there have been major changes in passenger ship legislation following the tragedy of «Scandinavian Star». By taking lessons from such events, measures and new legislation may be implemented to prevent any possible recurrence of such events. The recommendations of the Schei Commission may be divided mainly into areas of debt: the construction of the ship; crew training; operation of the ship Supervisory powers of the board of directors of the ship All these areas are important if fire or other emergency facilities are to be handled in the best possible way. "Scandinavian Star" taught us how important it is that the possibility of fire is discovered early in order to prevent spreading. Then the fire must be able to be fought as effectively as possible. Then the ship's construction, choice of material and installation of the looping system are very important. Furthermore, the crew must be trained to manage such situations, both by being able to close the fire and also by being able to assist passengers by means of e.g.: evacuation of the ship. The ship’s arrangements must also be such that any evacuation can take place quickly and efficiently, and for the rescue service it is important that there is a proper overview of those on board a ship at any time. In order to minimise the consequences of the permit to fire, the Code today requires the use of combustible material to be restricted and on passenger ships all linings, surfaces and ceilings shall be of non-combustible material. The rules also apply today to fixed fire detection and fire alarm systems to detect smoke in spaces, corridors, stairways and escape routes. And there are requirements for self-sealing fire doors in, among others. escape routes. In passenger ships, automatic sprinkler systems and enough hydrants on board have also been required to enable one to reach all parts of the ship with two independent jets of water, regardless of where the fire would occur on the boat. When new passengers arrive on board, safety briefings shall be provided in one or more languages and on ships where passengers are required to remain for more than 24 hours, must be provided and passengers shall then be instructed to use life-saving appliances and to act in the event of an emergency. Staff required to provide assistance to passengers in emergency and emergency situations are also required to master a Scandinavian language in addition to English. There are also requirements for the main alarm system and safe escape routes. The requirement for on-board patrols, rounds of fire is taken as a separate requirement in SOLAS, and exercises are scheduled, conducted and evaluated regularly. Seafarers’ competence is important and the requirements for seafarers have been updated by several changes to the STCW Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping. Basic safety training has also been introduced for all seafarers and further training with additional testing for officers. The Directorate-General for Maritime Navigation carries out flag State control on Norwegian ships and else carries out port State control on foreign ships entering Norwegian ports. Although the measures I have now mentioned are not a complete list of all the changes that have been taking place over the years, it at least shows that, based on experience and new knowledge from the Scandinavian Star fire and other events, there has been a major legislative development since 1990. In addition, the two main laws governing maritime safety have been new. The Maritime Safety Act of 1903 has been replaced by a modern supervisory law, the Ship Safety Act, in 2007. And in 2013, the Ship's Labour Act came into force, as a replacement for the Seafarer's Act of 1975. This has been the largest reform for Norwegian seafarers since 1975, and it is obvious that good working conditions for seafarers also have a significant impact on overall maritime safety. The fire of «Scandinavian Star» and the tragic outcome of this thing has been bad for too many years, and it will be bad for many even in times to come. But in all this evil, it is also good to record that the great community has learned and reacted, because much has changed to the better when it comes not least to the follow-up of those who are being framed, and, as I have been in my post, that maritime safety has been given a clear boost, which has therefore resulted in a stronger safety requirement and practice that has been safer to travel by sea, including on passenger ships.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1444	The burning of murder at Scandinavian Star affects a lot of people. In my community, I meet almost daily people who are still heavily affected by this, who have lost their closest ones. We had in the block next to two children, one in nine years and one a little bit older, who lost their parents. It is clear that this has put its heavy mark on the lives of very many people, survivors and relatives, who live with this even today. This is the biggest murder fire in Norwegian history, and it requires that we really go deep into it, which we have fortunately done in recent years. I would like to stress that the members of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs – I have noticed it both in contact with them and in the manner in which the debate is being held here today – have committed themselves personally, in the manner in which the matter is referred to. I think we have to assume that there are many who have seen how difficult it is that we have had the biggest murder fire in recent Norwegian history and have not found answers, and how difficult it is to live with. We have to assume that it will always be able to raise new questions. The basic problem, in my opinion, is that there were major errors in the start-up phase, and those errors have been removed all the way. I addressed these errors in an interpellation here in Stortinget on 28 November 2013. There was some start-up — at least a contribution to — the process that eventually led to the reopening of police investigations and to the creation of a commission by the Stortinget. One of the four most serious errors that was made in the beginning, I believe, was that one decided to limit the investigation to the first and a half hours of the fire and not the 38 hours of the fire. There were many questions about why you didn't go into it, and why a number of people who had participated in the shutdown work were not questioned about what they saw, and what they knew. When the first statement to the Stortinget said that the economic conditions had been clarified, and later, when the matter arose in Stortinget, said about the economic conditions – about who could have an interest in possible insurance fraud, etc. – that it was private relations and had nothing to do with the murder fire itself, it is clear that you are left with many big questions. The investigation was shared in that way that the Danish authorities gave a police station in the district of Fredriksberg responsibility for maritime law, navigability, shipownership and thus ownership, a police station in Uddevalla was responsible for the crime scene, and the Norwegian police at the Oslo Police Chamber were responsible for the fire and fire. This sharing of responsibilities in the investigation is something I think would never be repeated today. It is absolutely impossible to imagine that it might be right to investigate in this way, and that today you could defend the procedure – that you were driving so much in each place with basic things that had to be seen in the context. I believe we need to be aware that there have been reasons to raise major questions later on. Those who are affected by this have had to deal with all the personal problems associated with losing their loved ones, and have felt that they have had to live with questions that it is very difficult to understand that society has left unanswered. The most locked work on the investigation was the conclusion that the Danish trailer driver was a performer. He was actually indicated with the date of birth in a big message, which the Control and Constitutional Committee has addressed. The paper came in 1992, and Stortinget agreed to judge a person who had died in an arson fire. It has subsequently been found that there is no technical evidence for this against him. The police said it didn't last. It is clear that when the police chief in Oslo said to the VG on 13 March 1991: 'All other possibilities than the Danish are excluded', it locked the investigation into one track, which meant that the other possibilities were not seen. There has been a problem in all these years after. I want to say that the basic error was made in the start-up phase – on these four points I have mentioned now. I believe that the Commission, which has made a report to the Stortinget, should more fully mention the serious errors that were made in the initial phase, and put – a little clearer – the bell on the cat as to where the causes of the basic starting problems that we have gone on with us lie. I'm talking about this now because I think it's important that what we say in the Storting must be historic. What stood in St.meld. No 63 for 1991-1992, about the fire accident on the Scandinavian Star passenger ferry, does not hold on to these four points I have mentioned now. I am very pleased that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is now making a decision on the most serious issue, that the Storting went beyond all laws and regulations for what the Storting is going to do, and condemned a perpetrator, which was also not proof. I'm really glad you clean up, but that's what happens now, 28 years later. We have to think about how his family and all the other families have lived with these questions. We have received a report that goes thoroughly into the follow-up of the survivors and relatives on the health side and other parts of it. That's good. The Commission has tried to go into various claims regarding the fire course, in a thorough manner, but I think it could have gone into more detail about what we have dealt with here on the Storting, and what has been the basis for our treatment earlier. There is a need for posterity. What is contained in bulking papers and about Storting's handling of this matter must be historical. The Support Group for the Survivors and Associates to the Commission. I don't remember seeing the input of the support group, which they worked on for months, mentioned directly in the Commission's report. But they have a large document on maritime safety in particular, on how to draw important experiences out of this, which I think we need to do. It is certainly an annex to the work of the Control and Constitutional Committee that we can take with us in a number of contexts. A great many important points have been raised, but there is one point I would like to mention which is also mentioned in the position of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. It says: ‘This shows that the need for clear and clarified ownership is necessary for the work on safety at sea, as has been the focus of, inter alia, the Support Group.’; They point out that in the case of port State control, this must be the case in the International Code – Norway should at least introduce it – that it should be clarified that ownership, shipownership and operational conditions are to know who is responsible for these matters when ships call at and are in Norwegian ports. I think that is a very important and clear point that we should follow further up in other ways. The infringement lifted the limitation period for murderous fires as it approached the limitation period for the fire of «Scandinavian Star». There is no limitation period now. So we have to be aware here in Stortinget that when the committee comes up and says that for our part we don't see that we can move on in this matter now, that doesn't mean anything else but that we say to the survivors and relatives around the country that if there are new things coming up, we have cancelled the limitation period. It is clear that no one here at Stortinget can sit and cut others off from following up the case if new things emerge as it turns out that we have no knowledge of now. That is why the limitation period was lifted at that time. I think we have to do this with the greatest humility to those who are extremely strongly affected by this even today. We are aware that there is a load with new rounds. Some of those most affected would consider it to be such. Others will continue to struggle with the questions that have not been answered. As it is now announced in the setting that the Danish trailer driver was not the perpetrator, and they say he is sorry, it is clear that it is even more open who was the perpetrator, and what really happened. That question will continue to live as a heavy one in our history – that it has not been clarified, and that you have not been able to arrange the investigation and work in such a way from the start that you can figure it out. I believe we can say that the job that Stortinget has done, and what the police did first by resuming the investigation, is very important. Then they said that you could not live with what was done – the four major errors I mentioned – from the beginning. The investigation was resumed in order to verify this. It was reassuring and important that society could respond that way. Following the earlier rejection of recommendations by the support group and the Foundation for the resumption of the investigation, it was now implemented. I know that everyone who was hit values. What is also highly valued is that the Storting started this Commission and this review and got the report we are dealing with today. Then we just have to have the right humility too. Once we've dealt with it as far as we can now, we need to have the same humility toward those who are affected, even further, we can't decide how they will think about this in the future. But the Storting has shown the greatest respect and the greatest sense of what it's all about, through the debate today, and I think everyone will appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1492	Despite the tragic background, there has been a good debate to follow in the Chamber. I would like to thank you for the debate and for your commitment. It's good to note that the government and a total accumulation so clearly emphasize that even though we can't see that we can move forward, we should not forget, and we should learn. That means we have to do everything we can to prevent something like that from happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1497	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 7, 8 and 9 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1537	Lars Haltbrecken has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1542	On behalf of Ole André Myhrvold and myself, I would like to make a proposal that the following three cases be postponed pending that we know what Iceland is doing in relation to the third energy market package of the EU. Iceland is an important ally on EEA issues, and it is important for us to get such a contentious case as this has been well-lit. Some might say in the debate that we want to leave power in the matter to the Icelandic Everything. We don't want to. We want the matter to be well-lit before the Norwegian Storing takes its decision, and we therefore propose that the following three cases on the case card should be postponed pending that we know more about what Iceland is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1549	The representative Haltbrecken has then promoted a postponement proposal. The President will now be able to give the floor to one from each party group for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1556	I believe that this matter is both well-founded and well-lit. There has been a comprehensive process in the committee and in a number of parties, including my party, that have had it up many times. It has, as the representative Haltbrecken will have noticed, been a not insignificant public discussion on this topic as well, and we believe that we are ready to have a treatment and make a decision on this matter. I also believe that it is important to remember that all power is in this Chamber, and that it is not possible to go to the Parliament of another country to make a decision for Norway. I think we should deal with the usual procedure in EEA matters, which is that the government has already joined, together with the Government of Iceland and the Government of Liechtenstein through the EEA Committee, and is waiting for the consent of the Stortinget, Everything and Liechtenstein Parliament. That's the normal procedure. I think Norway is going to make its decision and Iceland and Liechtenstein are making their decisions. That is why I would recommend that the representatives of the Labour Party vote against Mr Haltbrecken's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1563	I share the assessments made by the representative Barth Eide. This is a matter that has been thoroughly debated in the public, in the committee and in the parties, and so now we are going to discuss it here in the Chamber. I therefore recommend the right-wing group to vote against the postponement proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1568	The last day has clearly shown why we should postpone the discussion of this matter, which is about giving more power from Norway to the EU bureaucracy and integrating the EU's third energy market package into the EEA Agreement. This should be postponed, because the government, with various opinions, has created considerable uncertainty as to the consequences of what is to be adopted later today. The Prime Minister said one thing about NorthConnect yesterday. She tried to distance herself from it later in the day with a Facebook message. The Council of State of Terje Søviknes was clear from the interlocutory here yesterday on the fact that what the Grand Council is going to adopt here today will have no significance for the concessional process, while there was contact between the three conciliation partners last night, where the Prime Minister's office tried to calm down by saying, "No, what was said yesterday from the Parliament's pulpit was wrong. Terje Søviknes was here today at 8 p.m. 12.58 out saying that what the Storting is about to be treated today has no significance for the treatment of NorthConnect. So in one day, the responsible state council, the prime minister and the Labour Party have made different statements. Now, the underlying thing is that in 24 hours, we've got different government information. However, the latest information is that what is adopted here today will have no significance whatsoever for NorthConnect, which the Workers' Party itself has set as a premise to accept and integrate the third EU energy market package. The Central Party then believes that it is totally irresponsible to go to a handling of the matter now, when there is so much confusion created by both the Prime Minister, the Council of State and the largest opposition party, the Workers' Party, which in this case is a supporting party for the Right and the Advance Party. It is unwise and irresponsible, not least when we see that there is also uncertainty about what is happening in Iceland. I believe that the representatives of the Labour Party should now listen to the LO, who clearly say that more information should be given about the consequences of this and that more time should be given to themselves. The only responsibility for the Norwegian big business is to postpone this case, when we see how much confusion it has been the last day, not least from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1581	This is a matter which has been widely and widely discussed in the Norwegian public. The setting is very clear, and the matter has been presented in a very normal way. I would therefore urge the Green Group in the European Parliament to vote against the postponement proposal. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1586	The hour before handling the case, there is full confusion about the content and consequences of the case. The so-called mandatory requirement of the working party is that no concessions should be given to foreign dwellings until experience has been gained with the two cables under construction. They will not be in operation until 2021, so we can gain the earliest experience in 2022. This is understood as a stop to the controversial NorthConnect cable to Scotland. But then it turns out that the final agreement between these five Acer parties does not have this wording. It was confirmed by Erna Solberg in this hall yesterday. Thus, the so-called mandatory requirements and conditions of the working party are not fulfilled in the agreement they have entered into with the other yes-to-ACER parties and on the basis of which a narrow majority of the Workers' Group voted in favour. So the prime minister tries to clean this up on Facebook last night and writes the following: ‘The government’s decision requires socio-economic profitability, and before we take the decision, we shall gain experience and make thorough analyses of the cables that already exist or are under construction.’ Given this, no one can arrest Prime Minister Solberg for breach of the agreement if she gains experience from the cables currently in existence, which go to Denmark and the Netherlands, and then analyse the effects of the two under construction. This can be done tomorrow, long before the two new cables are finished and in operation, which is only in 2021. In other words, our interpretation is that Erna Solberg has punctuated in a precise way what has been made as an inevitable claim by Espen Barth Eide of the Workers' Party. Everyone thinks NorthConnect is stopped by the agreement, but the actual decisions of the committee don't mean that. In sum, not only does the Workers' Party make a historical mistake; they do it under false assumptions. Therefore, the matter has to be postponed until this is clearly settled. It is not done in the main hall of Erna Solberg, nor is it done on Facebook by Erna Solberg, and it is not in the agreement between the parties. The premises on which this is made are therefore false and false and must be clarified before the matter can be dealt with in a serious way by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1600	The President would like to remind you that this round is an explanation of vote and that the other arguments can be included in the possible debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1605	Congratulations on a new assignment, President! To the representative Bjørn Moxnes: Fortunately, this case should not be adopted or clarified on Facebook. It happens in this room, and everything so far indicates that there is a great need for it. This matter has been thoroughly debated. It was delivered from the government to Stortinget before Christmas. We've had months, the committee has taken more time, so it's been thoroughly illuminated. Moreover, nine years have passed since the EU adopted the third energy market package, so we have had enough time. What this case is calling for is a clarification. Otherwise, foreign tables are not really part of the directives we are going to deal with today, but there is an agreement between five parties that are agreed. That is what we will do in the debate when the matter is being dealt with. Otherwise, it is to say that waiting for Iceland and attaching them to Norwegian sovereignty, that they will make the decision on behalf of us, is not worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1617	I'm a little uncertain about what we're going to put the case to, whether it's because of relationships and a debate that's going on in Iceland, or whether it's because of the uncertainty associated with NorthConnect. In my world, I've always been of the opinion that if there's uncertainty or confusion, we'll take the debate. Only postponement of the matter can then have no purpose or lead to our getting any closer. The third energy market package was adopted by the EU in 2009. In other words, it was almost nine years ago. The Committee has been considering the matter since 3 November. In other words, we've been holding it for a while. I think it is enough to be able to deal with this matter today in a good way. The Progress Party will not support the proposal to postpone the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1626	The parties have then been given an indication of their position on the postponement proposal, and voting will be called in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1635	The size is then ready to go to voting on the postponement proposal. The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, of the Socialist Left Party, has proposed that the case no. 7, 8 and 9 on today's map are postponed. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1651	We are then going to deal with the matter No. 7, 8, and 9. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Centre 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Red 5 minutes. Members of the government get up to 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three lines be given with replies from the main figures of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1664	Today, we are discussing the position of the Energy and Environment Committee on three proposals, as referred to by the President, concerning the inclusion of the third EU energy market package in Norwegian law with adaptations to Norwegian legislation. That's Prop. 4 S for 2017-2018 on the EEA Energy Market Package, Prop. 5 L for 2017-2018 on changes to the Energy Act and Prop. 6 L for 2017-2018 on amendments to the Natural Gas Act. I want to start by thanking for a very good cooperation in the Committee on a very important matter, and a matter there has been a lot of attention around in public space. I believe that today we are presenting three settings that achieve two important purposes at the same time. These purposes have been important to us in the Workers' Party, and as I understand it, also to the rest of those who make up the majority in the position. It is that we continue to ensure public ownership and safe national governance of our own energy resources – preserving the legacy of silver, to which it is often referred – while at the same time continuing a long tradition of good Nordic and European cooperation in the field of energy, a cooperation that is only becoming even more important in the future on the road into the renewable society. The third energy market package was adopted in the EU in 2009 and implemented from 2011 in order to continue and strengthen the regulation of the EU's internal markets in electricity and natural gas. It replaces four acts previously incorporated into the EEA Agreement which have already been applied in Norway. The current package was introduced in December 2005. The third package continues many of the principles underlying the second package. Furthermore, new rules for independent national regulatory authority, what we here call RME, and independent review body, a ownership distinction between transmission and the production of electrical energy, are established to strengthen consumer rights, new regulations on cross-border power trading, and an EU Agency for Cooperation between the Energy Regulators, ACER, or Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators is established. In particular, this part of an overall package has received a lot of attention in the public vocabulary, but it's part of a larger whole. The inclusion of Norway in the third energy market package through the EEA was initiated by the then oil and energy minister Ola Borten Moe in the Stoltenberg II government and sent to the hearing in 2013. However, it would be until 2017 before the matter reached Stortinget, and then under a different government than the one that first started working. Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein have joined the package in the EEA Committee in spring 2017, subject to the agreement of the Stortinget, Alltinget and Liechtenstein Parliament, as previously mentioned. That process is now under way in those countries. Norway has many years of experience in power exchange between Nordic countries. This goes back to 1963, when we set up an organization called Nordel, but it got much faster after 1990, when it developed a truly common Nordic energy market, i.e. a power market for electricity. This was later extended to the Baltic region, with branches down to Germany, the Netherlands and the continent. It has been in our interest to have common rules all this time, for these are demanding technical issues. Especially technically interested: the voltage we have in the contacts here in the hall is the same in the whole Nordic region at the same time and requires constant regulation of the relationship between the production and consumption of electricity. This is difficult to achieve without international cooperation, to say the least. At the same time, for all practical purposes, most of our gas goes to Europe. Power is something we both export to and import from Europe, every day. For example, we import reasonable foreign power at night. Not least our power-intensive industries use foreign power at night, while we export at day, for a higher money, power out to the Nordics and Europe. This means that Norway has a system that provides stability for security of supply and the ability to buy cheap and sell expensively, while at the same time contributing to the green shift at once. It is this tradition that we want to continue by continuing the integration of European energy cooperation. It is also part of the case that the special Nordic institutions which were originally set up to ensure this in the Nordic region are now set up for the benefit of entering the European institutions, which are now setting the rules that were previously Nordic. At the same time, there have been a number of demanding and important issues to take into account, as the debate has raised questions as to whether the connection to the third package challenges the sovereignty of our power resources, whether it challenges ownership, repatriation, concession laws or real power and gas management in Norway. It is the Workers' Party's, and the majority's, assessment that it does not, at least not with the adjustments we have made after we have made changes from what was originally in the proposition. I'd like to mention these cards now, and there'll be an opportunity to discuss it much more in detail. We believe that the government's original proposition left much more power and authority to this independent regulatory authority for energy than was necessary to meet the minimum EU requirements. So we have come up with an adjusted model in a close dialogue with the Greens/Government Party, which continues to provide an independent regulatory authority, but whose functions are confined to being supervisory functions, to taking individual decisions and in some limited areas to prior regulation with a view to future individual decisions, but no authority for example. to draw up regulations or to draw up legislative proposals. It shall be located in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, OED, or in the Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate, NVE, as it is today. It is an important part of why we remain in control of the key issues of Norwegian energy policy. We have been concerned that this matter raises a number of questions relating to foreign tables. This is not the case – and already in what should be explanation of vote, this discussion was raised – that membership in the third package requires us to build new cables. It is quite clear that that decision remains in Norway. It is a national sovereign assessment whether cables are to be built, and as such the cable discussion is not a direct part of it. But we have assessed that there are so many issues related to it that we had to establish some key principles of Norwegian energy policy and use this opportunity for some important adjustments in the Energy Act – not only with the regulatory authority, but also with who is responsible for ownership and operation in cables. It's supposed to be Statnett. The transmission network in Norway is operated in full by Statnet. It is an important principle and also has to do with ownership separation. We believe that the principle should apply out of the country and without exception. It will never go out of Norway, either now or in the future with our arrangement, never, a private cable. Statnet's monopoly shall apply to the unabated. Then, in the agreement with which the five parties in the majority have agreed and signed, and which is also reflected in the vote and decision-making proposals, we have stressed that any new cables can only be built if they are, first of all, socially viable, and, second, based on experience from the cables that are already there, or have been adopted today – i.e. the two cables that are now adopted. To gain experience, you first have to harvest it, and that means that it's a very long time before you can build some new cables with the unity we've got here. In addition, there is the requirement for Statnett's monopoly. The reason why it's important is to do with price assessments, because if we build a new cable for Sweden, it will have absolutely no impact on the price. But building a cable for the United Kingdom in the near future can actually lead to a slightly higher price being imported. I say in the near future, because the United Kingdom is at full speed on its way away from the coal and above to the wind, and the price conditions in the United Kingdom will change in a few years. But it is important that we have control of it, and therefore we have also put this in, even if it does not directly result from the case. This is a report by the rapporteur, but it is also the proposals that the majority put forward. I look forward to a good debate on an important issue for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1692	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1697	In this debate, a number of interesting claims have flourished, some with a slightly relaxed relationship with the facts. However, one of the issues on which clarification is important is how closer cooperation with the EU in the energy field will affect Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs. How does the Labour Party view the challenges now facing powerful Norwegian industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1704	I would like to thank Mr Westgaard-Halle for his question and would like to stress that with the kind of connection we now choose, where we provide control, and with the previously mentioned rules for the construction of new cables, it is good for Norwegian industry to be linked to Europe. This means increasing security of supply. That means we can import force when it pays off and export when it pays off. This results in a significant amount of electricity in Norway. We have seen a significant surplus of power both in Norway in isolation and in the Nordic countries today. I'm concerned that we're getting better at using the power surplus we already have, and to an even greater extent going to get, to build more powerful industries. I believe that there is a great potential for green data centres, for perhaps new forms of hydrogen production, for fertilizers, and that we should further develop bets both on the force we already have, and on wind power, to take a power cap for Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1711	The representatives of the Workers' Party will notice that the Workers' Party needs a right-wing response in the discussion on Norwegian industrial policy, about who will be in charge of Norwegian energy policy. Here a combined Norwegian trade movement has been crystal clear. EL and IT have been clear, the trade union has been clear, the joint federation has been clear, the LO has been clear and talked about wanting national control, national energy management, so that one can build industry and industrial workplaces all around Norway. But that is not enough for the Workers' Party – while the majority of the Workers' Party counties have been clear that they do not want this. Over a hundred Labour Party rapporteurs have been ready. In industrial societies by industrial communities along the coast, crystal clear: do not endorse this solution, which is at the forefront of the Advance Party and the Right! What's amazing is that today the Workers' Party relies more on Terje Søviknes from the Advance Party than on Hans-Christian Gabrielsen from LO. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1719	First of all, it's not like that. We have had a very close and close dialogue both with Gabrielsen and with many others in LO about what is important in this matter. We agree on a lot. We have some disagreement with some people about whether association with ACER affects these relationships. It's clear, and it's known. On the other hand, we agree on national governance and control, Statnett's monopoly and that it is important to use power to build Norwegian industry. There are important, key issues that have become the assumptions on which we have based this work, and we agree with the LO and other parts of the trade movement on that. Then I would like to remind you that the representative Battle Violence Vedum and I were in the same government – and also had a good cooperation on a lot, among other things. on the introduction of ostetoll. It was that government that – without me remembering that there was a special dispute – went into it for the first time that we were going to join the third package. It was exactly the same third package that we are now discussing. State Council Søviknes has spent some time – not only has he – getting it here, but we started this work, and then there were very strong speeches about how important this was for Norway, by the representatives of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1726	The Workers' Party claims that it has been fully implemented for its eight national government requirements. I would like to quote from the Workers' Party's point 5 of the National Council's decision on the Acer case. Point 5 reads as follows: ‘Decisions on any new foreignables shall continue to be a sovereign decision taken by the Norwegian authorities and the experience with the two cables that are now being built before any new foreign connections can be evaluated.’ The question is: how will the Workers' Party ensure that the experience with the two cables under construction is reviewed before any new foreign connections are considered, all the time for the NorthConnect concession to be determined long before these two cables are put into service?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1736	We will clarify this by voting in favour of this position and the resulting legislative proposals, which clarify all these issues very clearly: experience from existing and already adopted foreign capacity needs to be gained. And you can't gain experience from something that hasn't happened yet – that experience has to come back. That's why we're very confident that this is well cared for. Since we live in a state of law, we cannot stand here and thereby cancel a hearing on an already requested concession. But we have full authority to influence the conditions that will apply, when we are promoted by a final decision. I would also like to point out that the Prime Minister made it very clear last night, in a statement that was reproduced on her Facebook page, and that also establishes these three principles: Statnet's monopoly, social profitability, also based on experience with adopted foreign capacity – precisely for the reasons I mentioned in my introduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1743	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1748	This is a debate that has engaged and provoked many. That's the way it is in a democracy, and that's good. We need exchanges, and we want violent exchanges. At the same time, we have seen examples in this discussion that have not been so positive. We, who are in favour of the proposal, have been called Constitutional Breakers. We're not. We've been called traitors. We're not. It has been written that the opponents should take up arms and thus take us so-called traitors to the courts and give us harsh judges as at the war settlement. That's not good. It does not benefit the tone that we want in our debate, nor does it bring information about what the matter is actually about. In Norway, we have respect for each other's differences, and we should all work for a decent debate where we do not attach our opponents to the intentions they do not have. In many ways, Norway is a leading star. We have a health care system and an education system other countries can dream of. We have adaptive and hard-working workers who build our well-being every day, and we have good and well-functioning party cooperation where we listen to each other and respect each other. Together, we have built what is one of the world's most functioning democracies. We have achieved this, we who are so few in this country, through wise decisions and an important consensus tradition. Political divides in Norway are not, fortunately, political divides in other countries. One of the Norwegians is to be found together. In other parts of the world, for example, it is admired. our welfare state. In the rest of the world, articles can be read about this miracle, and it is discussed how it can be copied to other countries. It's actually something of the same thing that happened to the third energy market package, because the inspiration for this is clear. First, it's about how we've managed to use our resources so rationally that almost all the energy we use in Norway is from renewable energy sources. Other countries want to learn from us. Secondly, it's about how we, with our friends in the Nordic region, cooperate so well on this. We're exchanging power with each other, and we've been doing it for years. Let me say something about these two points, these two points, which show how Europe is inspired by us. Earlier this winter I had an American visiting that almost could not believe her own ears when she heard how much renewable power we have in Norway. And let there be no doubt: the hydropower is one of Norway's most important building blocks. It's the backbone of the Norwegian power system. We have approx. 1,550 hydropower plants producing 96 pst. of Norwegian normal-year production. We have over 1,000 water storage units, and about 1 000 water storage units. half of the storage capacity is covered by the 30 largest warehouses. The total storage capacity is about 70 pst. of Norwegian electricity consumption. With upgrades and extensions, we have an increased capacity to exploit the magazines. It gives us the opportunity to dispose of the water in order to create the greatest possible income and stable access to power that is important to our jobs. Thus, the market has an important role to play in ensuring the efficient use of water in the warehouses. Wind power stands for 2 pst today. of the total. It came late, but well, and today it is working with the largest wind power project in Europe, in Norway. The force nation maintains its position again, still with renewable energy. Norway is powered by renewable energy. We can be proud of that, and we should not be ashamed that Europe is inspired by us, rather on the contrary. The second thing was about cooperation in the Nordic region, where we've exchanged power with each other. Why are we doing this? There are several reasons for this. Initially, it was about security of supply. If the intention in Norway was poor, however, we should ensure that Norwegian citizens could heat their homes through a cold winter. So we decided, in the Nordic region, to figure out, work together. Security of supply benefits Norwegian citizens who are busy with electricity in their casts. Security of supply has been a topic of the Norwegian debate in the past, for example: in winter 2010–2011, with record low magazine fillings and thus record high power prices for a few hours. This might be the reason why the Central Party Ola Borten Moe just traveled to England to sign that the Center Party would have more power exchange. Such challenges are reduced by exchanges. Power trading plays a central role in the Norwegian hydropower system in both security of supply and value creation. For this also helped to build industry. It created jobs. Because our power is renewable, we helped spread good and climate-friendly solutions. Let me give an example of how it works in practice. In Denmark, renewable coal power has been replaced by non-regulatable wind power. If Denmark does not have the opportunity to import electricity from Norway in the days when they do not get enough electricity from the wind, Denmark would not have been able to take the chance to liquidate its coal. When we stand here today discussing the third energy market package, we need to be aware of how much of the energy policy's thought has come not only from our neighborhood, but from our mountains and our waterfalls. Other aspects of this package are the strengthening of consumer rights and freedom of choice in the internal market, which Norway and the Nordic countries have provided for a long time ago. So what's the main thing? Yes, it is about further developing a common regulatory framework for the internal market in electricity and gas in the EU. The package continues the first and second energy market package, which has been part of the EEA Agreement for many years. We have been part of the EU's energy policy for 20 years. It has served us well, and it will continue to serve us well. Much of the discussion has concerned the inter-regulatory cooperation body, commonly known as ACER. The role of the cooperation body is to contribute to the elimination of barriers to cross-border trade in electrical energy and natural gas. First of all, this body should have an advisory role, and it is about strengthening cooperation between EU energy regulators. Basically, we're talking about an important climate action. Energy supply is the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the EU. The EU is in the start-up phase of its transition to a more climate-friendly energy supply. Norway’s power sector is close to zero emissions. Increased trade cooperation is an important effort to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement by providing for the transition to the low-carbon society. We do not give priority to protectionism over climate. The challenge is that renewable energy, with the exception of hydropower, is non-regulatable. It's not always the same amount of sun. It doesn't always blow as much. That's why we need a good interaction between the non-regulatory energy sources, so that the temptation to use heavily polluting coal disappears. Coal should not be used as a reserve in Europe. We have to make sure that everyone has the power you need, where you need it, when you need it. This is good for the climate, and for Norway it is also good for exports. Finally, I would like to say that the basic elements of Norwegian energy policy will be established. We still have sovereignty over the disposal of our unique energy resources and the design of our energy policy. In the case of concessions to electricity networks and power plants, Norwegian legislation continues to apply irrespective of the activities of ACER. Norwegian views and interests shall be actively promoted in the development of the European energy market. The government parties have a good agreement with the Workers' Party and the MDG. We've given to do that. We define a number of principles. For example, decisions on any new foreign table shall continue to be decisions fully taken by the Norwegian authorities, bottlenecks revenue shall be used to reduce network charges as well as for the maintenance and expansion of the Norwegian power grid, national, social and hydropower resource management, and Statnet shall own and operate all future inter-national connections. In summary, this case is important for Norwegian exports in our main export market. It is important for climate action in Europe by allowing several countries to benefit from renewable energy, and it is also important for nature because less nature will have to be reduced. I am very pleased with this agreement that the government parties have concluded with the Workers' Party and the MDG.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1792	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1797	I am a quite sensible and moderate man, and I agree with Mr Heggelund that we need a moderate climate of debate in this country. We have discussed that enough this week, now we are discussing Norwegian connection to the third energy market package of the EU. The representative Heggelund spoke of respect for the Constitution. I believe that Heggelund and I agree that we are constitutional conservative representatives. The question is why the Right will not use § 115. The Department of Justice says that we're about to give up sovereignty, albeit to a small extent. But one of Norway's leading legal experts, Professor Eivind Smith, says that it is wise of Stortinget to deal with the matter under Section 115, because the dynamics in the EEA and in the contract work are in such a way that you cannot have a full overview of the waiver of sovereignty at this point in time. Why won't Heggelund and Right be part of such wisdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1802	I agree that it is good to be a Constitutional Conservative, and it is nice that the representative Myhrvold and I can find it together, even if we don't get together so much else here today. But that's good, now we have a decent debate. I just want to warn against leaving an impression that this has not been thoroughly assessed under the Constitution. We now have two comprehensive serious assessments from the Department of Justice, which believe we can do this without § 115. Then I believe it is right that we put our trust in the thorough assessments, the two good assessments that have come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1809	I realize that Right and Heggelund will not listen to the advice from Eivind Smith that the Stortinget had made good use of § 115 in a matter where the waiver of sovereignty is somewhat unclear. Heggelund is like me concerned with climate, but unlike me, he is a sworn EU trailer. Does Heggelund agree that the main objective of the third package of the EU is to ensure free flow of energy, secure a single market, remove bottlenecks and ensure as much as possible the same market price in a single market?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1816	I agree that this energy market package for Norway will not lead to such major changes. I almost think that part of the opponents who have engaged themselves strongly in this fight will be somewhat disappointed at how little they will notice, because very much of this is already our policy. Remember that we are already part of the EU energy policy, and what we are doing with this package – further development of this energy policy – is that we are working better across borders just to ensure that more people can use renewable energy. That's what we're doing. Remember, much of the EU's energy supply still comes from coal. We can now do something about this without harming anyone in Europe — rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1822	Initially, I would like to say that I share Mr Heggelund's concern about parts of the level of debate in this matter. So to the question: in this case, we have seen a Right that loyally follows what the EU is proposing. In October 2014, the Right-lead government in Brussels countered the EU's plans for increased investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. The reason for the involvement of the right-wing government in a stronger EU environmental policy was the fear that it would go beyond the export of fossil gas from Norway. Does the Right’s loyal line in this matter mean that in future they will not oppose the EU when trying to improve their environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1829	First, I just want to say that it's not immediately that we in the Right need to improve our environmental policy. We have a good environmental policy. This government is pursuing an offensive environmental policy. I also want to pay tribute to the representative Haltbrecken. He's a man of integrity. A few days ago we were able to read in the class struggle that he was not satisfied with much of the rhetoric that has been used in connection with the Acer, so he has stopped paying the membership quota in the organisation No to the EU. I look forward to working with the EU on a good climate policy. We are also going to deal with a climate announcement that says something about it, in Stortinget during the spring. I think Norway and the EU have a lot to pick up from each other. We need to be offensive in order to achieve Europe's climate objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1838	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1843	The size shall today decide on the inclusion of the legal instrument contained in the third energy market package. Let me stress that in many ways this has been a long and complex process. Nine years have passed since the adoption of the third energy market package in the EU. There has been a long way to this day. With that, I would also like to stress that this has been an in-depth process for the Progress Party, on which we have spent a lot of time before we have come to a conclusion. Nevertheless, we have fallen into the conclusion that Norway has significantly greater advantages in concluding this agreement than it would have had in standing outside. For the Progress Party, our attention has been focused on Norwegian interests, and that is also what has been crucial for our position here today. I've recorded the public debate, where there's been a great deal of uncertainty about what this actually means, and it's got a lot of commitment. I have both understanding and sympathy for that. Therefore, it is important to clarify what this is about, and clear away some of the misconceptions that I have registered in the public vocabulary. It is because it is wrong that we today give away some ownership or power over Norwegian hydropower. It should still be on its own in Norwegian hands. It is not that there are now bureaucrats in Brussels to control hydropower production in Norway, it is the market and Norwegian politicians to do. Let me also state that power supply and security of supply are still a national issue. In other words, we're still going to have cheap, clean energy in Norway, and then we're going to make money to sell the surplus power we have. First of all, we need to ensure sufficient energy for our own use, and what's left over, we need to sell. Norway has a proud tradition as an exporter of energy, which has made our common well-being possible over the last decades and which is also intended to safeguard it in the future. For Norway, there has always been a nation that has looked outwards and seen opportunities beyond its own borders. This property has defined us in many ways as people – our proud maritime history, polar heroes that exploded borders, and in recent times our ability to convert energy globally into money. Our success is the result of the fact that we dare to look beyond, and not that we are walling in here up here in the north. Several, including the Centre Party, have claimed during the ongoing public debate that the inclusion of the third energy market package will contribute to increased electricity prices in Norway. It is a derailment of the reality of the matter. There is nothing in the third energy market package that suggests that prices for Norwegian consumers are rising. The formation of prices on power is not fundamental to other goods and services. It is about the relationship between supply and demand, not whether or not a European cooperation body is established. Temperature variations, precipitation, national taxes and taxes are the factors that affect the price of electricity. We can put a lot of blame on things that are wrong here in the world, on the European Union, but just the weather and decisions made in this Chamber, such as: In fact, they don't control the electricity charge. Let me also remind you that it is not that we have not had price increases in Norway in the past. From 2009 to 2010, the electricity price went up by 33 pst. At the time, it was the right gods that got blamed, and not ACER. That is what is important for me to clarify: current prices will also vary in the future, regardless of whether or not you are in favour of the third energy market package. Many ask why this is important for Norway and what changes will mean. The simple answer is that today's decision will not bring about the major changes in reality for Norway. It will in many ways contribute to maintaining the status quo. That is important, because it confirms market access to our most important market in Europe. In this context, I would like to spend some time talking about the importance of Norway for the export of natural gas, and the further market access that we are ensuring here today. Norwegian gas exports were record high for the third consecutive year of 2017. Norway exported around 122 billion standard cubic metres of gas, mainly going to Europe. This corresponds to an energy quantity of about ten times the total Norwegian hydropower production. Gas from Norway covers about 25 pst. of total EU gas consumption, and the export value of this gas was last year of 160 billion. kr. Creating uncertainty about our exports of gas now needs to be said to be a little forward-looking, both for the budgetary balance and for the world's climate. I would like to underline some points that have been important to the majority in this matter: It shall also be national control and control of our hydropower resources after the conclusion of this Agreement. The public ownership of Norwegian hydropower resources is established. The decision on new foreign tables shall be taken by the Norwegian authorities. Bottleneck revenue shall continue to be used to reduce network tariffs and to be used for the maintenance and expansion of the Norwegian mains. This has been a long-standing debate, and it is good today to make a point. The decision we are making today is important. It ensures market access, well-being and predictable framework conditions in the future. It also guarantees — even though some have raised doubts — national control and the right to have our natural resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1882	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1887	Part of this matter that has not received much attention is precisely what the representative addresses: the export of our natural gas, which provides the country with important revenues. It is not sent in the mains power source, but in cable, as the physical laws require. What's important, and what's nearby here, is how we're going to deal with the European market. What is the advantage, as the representative sees it, of being on the inside of this market versus possibly being outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1894	It's a very important question that's being addressed. For Europe's part, we see that their challenges face climate and climate challenges, and for Norway, this is of great economic importance. When we see which countries have managed to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, it is the United States and the United Kingdom that stand out. It's because they've been able to phase out coal against gas. If the energy from Norway that goes to Europe were to be replaced by coal again, it would have been equivalent to 300,000 million tonnes of CO 2 emissions, six times Norway's emissions. So this is a good deal for Norway, economically, and it's a great advantage for the world's climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1904	On Friday 16 March, the Progress Party posted on its Facebook page that Norwegian policy is to be determined in Norway, which is why the Progress Party says no to Norwegian EU membership. ‘From trade and deregulation, the EU has become a regulatory bureaucracy project at all levels, where national bureaucracy is complemented by transnational bureaucracy rather than replaced.’ This is what party leader Siv Jensen says. But now it's actually the case that the Department of Justice's law department says that we give sovereignty, even to a supranational bureaucracy, yes, even a bureaucracy of our own in order to get it up, that is, RME. What does the representative Halleland think about this construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1916	I don't think anyone in this case is going to interfere with the discussion about whether one is for or against the EU. The Progress Party has been a major supporter of the EEA Agreement, and we are dealing with it. The agreement we conclude today will only be part of the EEA Agreement further. With regard to the waiver of sovereignty, we have now twice received an assessment from the Department of Justice, where one says this is a little bit intrusive. We don't see any reason to overdo that. So it is that there has been a practice at Stortinget in those cases where there has been a waiver of sovereignty, but that transfer of authority is so-called a little overwhelming. And then, in a more global world, a lot of agreements – often agreements between nations – are put in place that have exactly the overarching bit, but it is such a small intervention that a person chooses to use § 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1923	I noticed that the representative in his post did not get into the core of the matter of the waiver of sovereignty. I have also been in and read what the Progress Party believes about this, and the principal programme reads that the position of the Progress Party towards the EU is justified by the fact that the EU is moving towards just more transnationality. The core of SV's skepticism and resistance to the third energy market package is that this is not any EU directive; this is just part of a wave that we now see – that ever-new supervision is increasingly giving more power to take decisions that are binding on Norway and the Norwegian authorities, without participation or voting rights. And what distinguishes this from just other agreements, which the representative also pointed to in his previous answer, is that we're not part of it. Does the representative not see this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1928	No, I don't. This is not an EU debate. Once the Progress Party has assessed this agreement, we have assessed it very easily, from the point of view of Norway – is it an advantage for Norway to enter, or is it an advantage for Norway to stand outside? Here we have concluded that it is an advantage to enter into the agreement. What is more, the EU is now copying the market that has been in the Nordic region, and will now look at the effects and benefits that have been achieved by the Nordic countries and Norway for many years and try to transfer them to Europe. I am almost surprised that SV does not see the benefit of an easier and better flow of renewable energy between nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1936	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1941	We have not had exactly this debate before, but there is no doubt that we have had numerous similar debates, and they are about shifting power to a supranational bureaucracy outside popular national control. This summer it was about the Financial Supervisory Authority. This time it is about energy, an area which at the beginning was not to be covered by the EEA Agreement. The issue is not whether we are going to act with power or not – we have already done so for many years. Today's debate is about whether we should allow supranational bodies, where Norway does not have the right to vote, to have power over Norwegian energy policy – in a landscape where the interests of the EU will most often be buyers – and we are sellers – and power over an energy policy that has served us well for about 100 years. The central party's starting point is that we should continue to ensure and develop energy policy based on our local and domestic natural resources. This has meant that natural resources have benefited the community, including: as a cheap force for industry, jobs and climate. Therefore, we cannot allow ourselves the risk of standing without influence on how to use our own power in the future. We're not just taking that risk. This is essentially about maritime law, maritime law about power and energy policy. It is confirmed by the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice and, in particular, by the latest assessment, which concluded that accession to Acer actually involves a transfer of sovereignty – as it has now been outlined. Notice that. The legislative department is without prejudice to the question of whether future extensions of ACER and EU competence will involve a greater degree of transfer of powers and what is to be done before the transition to something more than ‘small intervention’. That's what worries the Center Party. What we know is that by joining the EU's third energy market package, we will have to leave national control of important decisions to the European Energy Agency. The Agency will be able to take binding decisions in disputes between countries, including in matters relating to security of supply, reliability of supply, the development of the power system and the development of the transmission system. Through the ESA monitoring body and the regulatory authority, such decisions also become binding on Norway. In addition, several of the country’s leading lawyers have stressed that the experience and dynamics of the EU system, and not least the EEA, mean that the waiver of sovereignty must not only be considered in isolation in the case we are dealing with today, but in a much broader long-term perspective. Therefore, the centre party wishes to have an independent legal assessment of the case before a decision is taken. If it does not obtain a majority, the Central Party considers that the case must be dealt with under the Basic Law § 115 on the waiver of sovereignty. That'll be wise. Regardless of its position, it should be important to demonstrate the seriousness of the decision to transfer powers to the EU in the energy field. Norwegian power as any product in an integrated European energy market could result in Norwegian industry losing one of its main competitive advantages. Flagging the industry will cost jobs, and it will increase the use of fossil fuels. The centre party is aware that the Norwegian authorities shall have independent control over all decisions relevant to energy security in Norway, including those relating to industry and power-out. With regard to an internal market in free floats being balanced against Norwegian interests, the Senterpartiet knows what prevails. History has taught us that there is every reason to be skeptical. For example, in 1994 the Central Party’s warning that the EEA would weaken professional rights was completely swept away by former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland. History has shown us over and over again that it is the free flow of the internal market that prevails. Free flow — and not taking into account national interests, Norwegian craftsmen, port workers or Norwegian trailer drivers, to name a few. If the EU were to make an exception now, when just insisting on common driving rules for the coming Energy Union as the most important thing, it would be unique — yes, almost alarming. In that case, we should also use the same recipe to the craftsmen, the port workers and the trailer drivers. It is very special to stand here today as the representative of the Central Party and know that you have the LO Secretariat in your back, when we ask: why is it so urgent? What we know is that we are acting with power today. We have a product market wants. What we do not know for certain, on the other hand, is the consequences of the third energy market package or the consequences of the so-called winter package, which is the next step, and which appears to be considerably more intrusive in terms of national maritime law. The trade union movement and elected representatives — many far into the ranks of the Workers' Party — are concerned and ask the Stortinget to wait. The center party thinks we have time to wait. We believe that the matter has significant shortcomings. Among other things, the government has not followed the investigation instructions in the case. We therefore propose to investigate the matter in line with this. When invited to take the step of integrating Norway into the EU's integrated energy market, it must at least take place in a way that allows everyone to have confidence that the matter has been properly dealt with. I'm dealing with the suggestions the Center Party is on in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1973	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1980	‘Energy is an obvious and important part of our EEA agenda and our substantive interests vis-à-vis the EU. Policy and the development of directives in this area is therefore very central. In the energy field, we have always met with open doors from the Commission, even long before we started that dialogue. Energy is a central part of our economy. Energysports and trade with the EU are very important," said Ola Borten Moe when he and I were colleagues in the Stoltenberg II government, and when work started on adapting to the third energy market package. Before it had, among other things, Åslaug Haga made many and very good contributions to Europe about the importance of power exchange and Norway as Europe's green battery. So did Odd Roger Enoksen. Terje Riis-Johansen was also involved in this. My question is, why does the Center Party change vision 180 degrees – to the opposite? Was it because of a new, professional assessment of these relationships, or was it to adapt to currents in the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1987	The centre party has never opposed force exchange. The centre party is for power exchange. We've also been for the two cables that are now being built by Statnett. We have made it a prerequisite that foreign tables should be part of the transmission network and owned by Statnet. That is where we fully agree with the Labour Party. But the Center Party will not accept a waiver of sovereignty, as it is now added up to. We are concerned that the decision should be based on well-founded knowledge and documentation, and we believe that this matter has not been properly investigated. We do not know what will happen in the future, whether for Norwegian sovereignty, for Norwegian consumers, for industry or for the further development of energy and cables. That is what is at the heart of the matter from the centre party, not who got the case on the table first, and in which government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e1992	I would also like to be allowed to drill a little bit in this almost radical reverse operation to the Center Party. I'm sitting with an answer Ola Borten Moe wrote when he was State Council. He writes: ‘Continuity of international cooperation between energy regulators is important and participation in the development of framework conditions for the energy sector through ACER will be central to Norway.’ What did he know that the Center Party today does not know, or vice versa? What is the background for now thinking that this isn't thoroughly enough figured out in any way, when he, as the Council of State, spoke so positively about it? And what are the alternatives of the Centre Party to this package? We haven't heard any of the world's things about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2002	I want to repeat this: the centre party is not against force exchange. The centre party has been for it before. Ola Borten Moe has been for that before. The issue here is that Norwegian power policy has served Norwegian interests well for a long, long time. We are committed to ensuring Norwegian sovereignty over those resources. What we're now seeing is that it's being added to the surrender of sovereignty. We also know the dynamics of the EEA and the EU, and we are very sceptical about what comes in the winter market package, and now want to put a foot in the ground and get a proper investigation of these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2007	In 1972, color television came to Norway. In this connection, sin was made in this hall so that it had come to the earth. Today, 46 years after the entry of colour television into Norwegian homes, sin has returned to the earth, and it has not only come in color. If we are to believe in the terror propaganda that the Senter Party has brought in the last few weeks, the EU and ACER are to govern Norwegian power generation, with galloping power prices, and are to grant concessions for foreign tables from Norway – nothing with root in reality. On that basis, I would like to challenge the Myhrvold representative to a small bet: if in a year's time we see that the electricity price has risen to European level and that the EU has taken over the control of hydropower, I will offer to pay the entire electricity bill for next year. If this has not happened, however, I expect the representative to pay me. My question is therefore: does the representative Myhrvold sincerely believe in all the claims made by the Central Party? In that case, it should be a simple bet to participate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2012	Now there is no game policy in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2017	I don't know if the president allows gambling in this room. But in any case, the centre party has stood for a long-term, predictable energy policy. We still want that to be on the ground. What Halleland calls horror propaganda, I call being the leader was. The main issue of the centre party in this case is that we want to retain Norwegian maritime council rights over Norwegian energy policy. It's the most important thing. In addition, we know that energy policy is also about other things, including: foreign tables, and I think it's an undeniable fact that foreign tables are going to increase flow prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2022	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2028	Today, the news from the International Energy Agency showed that global greenhouse gas emissions are on the rise again. The threat of dangerous climate change, together with the loss of plants and animals in nature, is one of the greatest threats facing the world. We, as a rich country, must do what is in our power to prevent the worst consequences, and we must be involved in the international efforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions. In the coming years, we have to make a big contribution here at home, and we have to contribute to emissions cuts in other countries. Two of the ways we can contribute to emissions reduction in other countries are through exports of goods and services produced with renewable energy at home and through exports of power to replace coal and nuclear power. Since the 1960s, Norway has been selling and purchasing power from other countries. With the two cables now under construction, we're going to have 17 international connections abroad. These are connections that have served us, our neighbouring countries and the environment well. Interim links to which Norway has now built have contributed to security of supply for Norway, better use of renewable energy resources, cut greenhouse gas emissions and important revenues to municipalities and counties through power companies that are largely publicly owned. We've been able to import power this year where it's rained little, instead of shutting down industry, and we've exported power that has helped phase out coal and nuclear power. Denmark has been able to invest in wind power as a result of being able to import power from other countries, including Norway. Nordic and European energy cooperation has been and will be necessary, including: to ensure security of supply and a good environmental policy. Historically, Norway has shown that European cooperation in this area is possible without giving rise to national sovereignty, as it is now estimated. SV believes it is important that we have control over the regulation of the electricity grid and the electricity market. We in SV will continue to cooperate with Europe, but we do not have to give sovereignty to an EU body, Acer, where we do not have the right to vote, in order to do so. The sovereignty that the majority of the population today seems to be failing is serious. An office shall be set up in Norway to implement decisions taken by ACER, but that office shall not be subject to political control. Especially serious is the waiver of sovereignty when we don't know the extent of it if we see five or ten years into the future. So I want to point out that parts of the ACER debate have been about completely different things than it should. There has been a warning against increased electricity prices and that the EU will force us to build new cables abroad. It's not a concern I share. On the other hand, attempts have been made to present the case as crucial to the question of Europe’s ability to convert from fossil to renewable energy. It's the deaf thing. Norway is going to be part of the power market regardless of whether we join the Acer or not. The reason is obvious: both we, the EU and the environment are well served. I think we politicians should be honest – honest about what we're discussing, actually about. I'm not a politician who can promise voters cheaper power prices. The electricity price is likely to increase in the years ahead, but it is mainly because hopefully we will have a much more successful climate policy than today. Then the electricity price will increase because the price of pollution increases. The main reason why Norwegian electricity prices have been nearly halved in recent years is primarily that the price of pollution has fallen in Europe. With the enormous amount of air pollution we face, it is directly irresponsible to work at a reduced price of pollution. It's a policy for the directors of the fossil companies, and not for the many who depend on a living climate. For me, it is not a goal to have the lowest possible power price, nor is it a measure with the highest possible power price. But we need incentives that stimulate energy efficiency improvement – the second most important measure to cut greenhouse gas emissions and save nature for unnecessary power deployments. A low power price will effectively block the work for this. What is important is that we secure Norwegian industrial power contracts that enable industry to live and produce well. We've done that, and we're going to do that in the future. That is why it is gratifying to, for example: Norwegian Hydro has adopted its extension on Karmøy. It shows that industry wants to be here, and that as politicians we have to facilitate it. There is much more that could have been said about the debate that has gone on. There have been inaccuracies from several teams. We, who are opposed to giving sovereignty, have also been tried by some who claim to be nationalists and against international cooperation. Energy issues are among the most serious issues. We need to have a debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2056	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2061	I would like to begin by congratulating the representative Haltbrecken on a very good contribution, which I seem to have illustrated in a very good way what this matter is all about, and what it is not about, and there we are very much in agreement. So I'll first be allowed to acknowledge that. But now that we know that we agree that power exchange is good both for the climate and for Norwegian interests, I have three short questions. The first is: if we now say no to the third package, what rules does the representative Haltbrecken think would apply on the market that then forms on the one hand us and on the other hand a large number of EU countries? Would that be the third package rules, or would there be another set of rules that we're inventing ourselves? Secondly, should Norway seek influence on these rules? Thirdly, how can we best influence legislation that is being developed in the EU if you are not involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2070	As I mentioned in my post, since the 1960s Norway has had a power exchange with other countries. We will now have 17 cross-border connections when the two cables that are under construction and that SV has supported are finished. We have managed to reach agreement with our neighbouring countries on the power exchange in the years we have had this, and we have great faith that we will also be able to do so in the future, precisely because the EU does not buy this power from us for good-hearted reasons in order for us to be able to trade it, but because it is actually dependent on being able to use it for, for example. the development of wind power. So we have great faith that, even if we do not give up sovereignty, we will also be able to reach agreement with EU countries on this exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2075	I would also like to start by thanking the representative for a good and factual statement. We need more of that in many debates, but perhaps especially in this debate. I find it difficult to understand – after two thorough assessments have been made against the Constitution of the Ministry of Justice’s law department – why it is still decided to place such emphasis on the rhetoric around the waiver of sovereignty. Is that because there is to be a dispute resolution system between countries? And then the question is what is the alternative to having a dispute resolution system between countries that will cooperate with each other, but that may at some point be struggling to agree completely on how to cooperate. The second question I would like to have answered from the representative Haltbrecken is: Why does SV choose protectionism in front of the climate? That's what's real when you don't launch an alternative to what we're dealing with here today. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2084	SV sets the climate very high, and I think I also showed it in my post, that we are for the power exchange that happens. We are also in order to facilitate the Norwegian industry and the production of goods and services based on renewable energy. But we can keep doing that without giving up sovereignty, so this isn't about choosing between protectionism or climate. Here one can maintain its sovereignty and at the same time implement a very good climate policy, which is strongly required when we see the bad policy being pursued by the current government. So to the question of the waiver of sovereignty and the relationship with the Constitution: In the investigations from the Law Department, it's said that you actually renounce sovereignty. And then there have been constitutional experts who say... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2091	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2096	I would also like to acknowledge the articles of the Haltbrecken, which say a lot about the climate and the transition we have to go through, but which have something to do with how we are going to implement this. Norway has entered into a binding agreement, the Paris Agreement, we have committed ourselves to international cooperation, and the EU is a driving force for this. The EU is leading the way with efficiency measures, renewable measures and allowances systems. Without the EU having gone ahead and assumed that responsibility on behalf of a community, we had not had a Paris agreement that was so binding and so ambitious. In this regard, the representative Haltbrecken says that Nordic cooperation is important, that long-term sustainability is important. Yes, we've been working together on package one and two since the mid-1990s. The challenge now is that one is at risk of losing those contracts. Bilateral agreements — how should this happen? Why should we use so much bureaucracy and resources to conclude individual agreements to reach it... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2103	I would like to remind the representative, Mr Kjeseth, of what I said in my reply to Mr Heggelund earlier today, that the Left is actually a member of a government today, where a few years ago the parties went to Brussels to weaken the EU's commitment to renewable energy and energy efficiency. Why? Yes, to ensure the export of fossil gas from Norway. So to those who say that the connection to the Acer is a question of whether or not we're going to be part of the international climate dungeon. Well, if it had been, the climate would have a far more prominent role in this proposition. I can mention a few keywords: climate change is mentioned twice in the 211-page proposition. The CO 2 emissions, which are the most essential here, are referred to as three. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2115	Time's up. The cord shift is over. The president would like to point out that the committee's members are very good at talking and keeping track of time, but 1-minute posts might need to be rehearsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2124	Is it just heirloom – or is it also world heritage – we are discussing today? Is it just water that applies, or is it air? For the left, it's definitely both. Air and water are the basis of life. I know both the past and the future in this matter – yes, on generations, and on both local forces and forces of nature. On 19 March 1908, 110 years ago in these days, the then assembly government was replaced by a purely Left Government. Gunnar Knudsen became Prime Minister and Johan Castberg, from my home town of Gjøvik, became Minister of Justice. So yes, I know my left and left heirs. In this pure Left government, today's concession law was outlawed. In a country rich in natural resources, but poor in capital at the time, they ended up placing Norwegian and foreign interests equally linked to the concession on hydropower. All Norwegian authorities had to be an intermediary which, in the public interest, could lay down conditions for the purchase of natural resources. Further up to 1917, Gunnar Knudsen and Left continued in their second government work on the Industrial Concession Act, the Waterways Regulatory Act, the revision of the right of return and, not least, the establishment of the Norwegian Waterways and Electricity Agency, NVE. Have we been purchased? No, no, no. Over 90 pst. of Norwegian power generation is still in public ownership. All non-residents are owned by the government. Concessions for production, electricity networks and foreign tables shall continue to be adopted in Norway. Our sovereignty over the disposal of our unique energy resources and the design of our energy policy are at stake. Was it difficult for the Left and myself to say yes to the demands and assumptions of the Workers' Party? No, with our legacy and our policy in the bag, I was sure that we would meet the Workers' Party, that we would continue, for another 100 years, to manage this good model of living natural resources. Well 100 years after the establishment of the NVE in Norway, Europe needs an NVE-like body — abbreviated Acer. So in Norway we have to set up a mini-ACER, since we are an EEA member and not an EU member. And since we already have NVE, we're separating the so-called independent supervisory tasks from there and establishing a regulatory authority for energy, RME, in NVE. In the setting, changes have been made to prevent RME from obtaining regulatory or regulatory competence. The rejection of possible political interference, from both Norwegian and foreign politicians, is thus even more marginal than what the Ministry of Justice said in its opinion of 27 February. Industrial travel, welfare development, capital entry and infrastructure for electricity in Norway – all of this is important heritage silver. But it helps the climate and the globe little if it just becomes an Irish-green little corner of Europe and the world. If the shipowner, the engineer, the water manager and the father of the concession law, Gunnar Knudsen, lived anno 2018, I am absolutely sure that he had agreed to the Paris agreement and the joint international commitments to reduce the use of fossil energy sources. With so much renewable energy and so much oil money on the book in Norway, but so great challenges related to climate change in the world, I am absolutely sure that he had put the world ahead of Norway. I choose to quote Kjetil Lund, with rooting something further to the left in Norwegian politics than me, in an article in the class struggle of March 10th this year: ‘In some areas, the EU project has been more ambitious and successful than in energy and climate policy. In the UN-led climate negotiations, the EU has been negotiating as one block for years. The EU has always set higher targets than the other major countries, and they have always pressed for a more ambitious and more binding agreement. There had not been a Paris agreement today without the EU's ambitious and coordinated climate policy. [[...]] The world’s largest climate quota system was established in Europe. The EU renewable energy and energy efficiency directives have driven future developments and costs downwards. This cooperation is supported by the vast majority of social democrats, environmentalists and left-wingers in Europe. Those who want cooperation to disintegrate are not us, but the emerging right-wing populist parties in Europe.’ Then it's natural to ask today: who are the right-wing populist parties in Norway? There's a strange red-yellow-green gallery we see unfolding here today, in the richest country in the world. How does SV and Red think about international climate and environmental solidarity in this matter? In order not to forget the Christian People's Party: what do they think about next love when climate change pressures and the world has to act? Does it keep asking the Supreme Court for good advice? There is a need for a shift, from fossil to renewables, which is the case today – in cooperation with as many other countries as possible. We're going to lead the population and industry into this shift. The left has been on such switches and led earlier. It was the Left in the Bondevik II government that in 2003 took the initiative in the electric car policy that is likely to make electric car sales bigger than fossil car sales for the first time in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2164	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2169	The issue we are dealing with today is not about a yes or a no to international cooperation, whether we are in favour of or against climate change or bet on renewable energy. Of course we are for that, but this is about whether the Norwegian increase should give sovereignty to the EU. As the representative was in his post, the Left has a history of ensuring national governance and control and development of concession law, but what happens over a hundred years later — about the first thing that happens after the Left enters the government — is that power over Norwegian energy policy disappears out of the country. How does it relate to Norway's tradition in that area, a tradition that the Left has been building? Based on the presence of the representative, one would believe that the Left is now actively working for further renunciation of sovereignty to the EU. Is this the new line of the left?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2176	I thank you for the question. The sovereignty debate seems a bit funny, because this is really about establishing an organ that we have today in the NVE. It shall ensure that consumers can switch power suppliers. We're getting a more efficient energy system. To say that a body subject to ESA can be required to provide information from Norway is not what this matter is about. I understand that for the Central Party this is about a yes or no to an EEA agreement. We are going to make a climate change and an energy change in Europe, and this is about enabling actors to contribute to it and provide them with the opportunity to produce new renewable energy. Norway may be an actor who contributes to our resources in that transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2183	This is about far more than the exchange of information. This is about the establishment of a regulatory authority in the NVE that is not to be governed by national politicians and where any national authority, the Norwegian Government and the Norwegian Government are prohibited from trying to influence that regulatory authority. It shall retrieve its instructions from ESA, which shall again retrieve its instructions from the EU. It's a renunciation of sovereignty. It has also been established by the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice, and our leading constitutional experts recommend using § 115. This is also a question of cost sharing in the development of cables, which have already been decided upon by ACER, where Lithuania has been forced to pay costs to Poland. This is about big decisions. ACER shall have additional decision-making powers in the next round. Why is the Left involved in a development like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2192	The important sovereignty of Norway is that it is we who adopt the development of production and production capacity. It makes Norwegian politicians sovereign. We have more than 5,000 elected representatives in Norwegian municipalities. There are 173 hydropower municipalities in Norway. It's those who make the first decisions, it's those who own a lot of power concessions, and who get a lot of concessional income. There are a lot of state politicians who do it. We also sit on a great authority, over State Power, which is a great actor. Non-governmental organisations cannot adopt anything other than Norwegian politicians. So we need to talk about the proportions of the sovereignty being debated here. It's about a competition supervision that gets a small section of the NVE, for which we as Norwegian politicians are adopting the budgets. So we also have a lot of control over the capacity that the regulatory authority wants in Norway. They're in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2197	The representative, Kjeseth, is talking about love and solidarity. And yes, climate is our time's most important thing. But this isn't about locking in Norwegian power, it's not about locking us out of Europe, but it's about who's sitting on the keys. In addition, fighting the environment is more than climate. This is about a free energy market, with free flow, where market forces are going to get raw. This means that the consequences can be increased by increased power driving, with the consequences it has for watering in Norwegian watercourses and thus consequences for insects, estuaries, fish, fish eggs, spawning pits, etc. How does Left stand up to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2202	Firstly, we need to clarify: it was the Central Party with Eivind Reiten as the Council of States that introduced the deregulated system we have in Norway today, and made provision for the power system we have today, on which we have later got the Nordic countries, and on which Europe wants today. One hundred years after the establishment of the NVE, that's what Europe wants. So the long lines here show that the Centre Party has helped to facilitate the development that one now obviously does not want on behalf of the climate and the environment — but also Norwegian municipal councils, of course, which get significant income from European countries, especially from our neighbouring countries. For power driving: SINTEF and the CEDR have rejected any correlation here. If power drive is needed, we can do it against sea basins and other exits instead of running it in the rivers, so there's no connection here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2209	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2214	Norway is an energy nation. The hydropower formed the basis for the industrialisation of Norway, and this was the advantage that made us an industrial nation and formed the basis for a harsh welfare state. By taming waterfalls and watercourses, we were given reasonable, stable and adjustable power to both households and industry. Later it was the petroleum resources on the Norwegian base that lifted us up in the elite division among the world's most prosperous nations. Energy has been important for the development of Norway and will continue to be one of our strongest assets in the future. So it's not surprising that things like the one we're discussing now get involved. The EEA Agreement has served Norway and our interests well. It has given us market access from our trading partners in the EU, while retaining the right of self-determination. Both parts have been and will be important for Norway in the future. The debate on the third energy market package has gone at a high temperature in the media and has largely concerned the constitutional aspects of the connection to Acer and the impact this will have on Norway. The Christian People's Party is concerned that a link to Acer through the EU energy market package could restrict Norway's space for action in an area that is very important to us. Norway must establish an independent regulatory authority, RME, which is outside Norwegian political control. ACER has both enforcement and decision-making powers over RME and it is perceived as problematic. This does not mean that we do not think energy cooperation in Europe is important. Norway has a high level of renewable energy production and has the potential for further production, which exceeds domestic needs, but we are sceptical about agencies and supervision that are outside political control. The Christian People's Party has been a strong defender of the EEA Agreement and believes it has served Norway well. But there is also a room for action in the EEA Agreement that we can use. Norway has fulfilled its obligations in our compliance with the agreement, but sometimes it is also right to say no. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need to clarify how membership of different bodies should be treated legally. The EU's intention to integrate Member States more closely will also lead to Norway becoming more closely integrated through new agencies and new supervision. It's the constitutional questions that concern us. The question is whether a practice is developed here in the way such directives are dealt with. This wants the Christian People's Party to judge the Supreme Court. All those involved in the EEA Agreement should agree that some clarifications are needed. We don't deserve to be asked questions about the procedure and the constitutional. Paragraph 83 of the Constitution states that the Stortinget can ask for legal assessment. This has not been used extensively and has not been used since 1945. This means that the threshold for using this opportunity is high, but the Christian People's Party believes that this is right to do in a situation where there is a great deal of disagreement about the constitutional relationship to international agreements and sovereignty. When such a large part of the debate on the third energy market package deals with constitutional matters, it is an important sign that we need clarification. The Christian People's Party is a strong defender of the EEA Agreement, and we believe it is unfavourable for the future of the agreement that there is disagreement about the legal interpretations. It does not seem that the proposals of the Christian People's Party are supported today, and the Christian People's Party will therefore vote against the support of the third energy market package, as the matter is now. I am promoting the proposal we have taken up, and if our proposal falls, the Christian People's Party wishes to vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 1 – that this is dealt with under the Basic Law § 115.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2237	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2245	The representative said that it is important to use the space for action, and that you are not sure how the authority will work. Then it's interesting to ask if the investigation the Department of Law has had by the agency RME, which we're going to set up in Norway: what's unclear about it? What is the Christian People's Party want the RME to have of tasks? As the situation is now, we have reduced the problems that were put into the case from the start, so we have used the space we have. These tasks have been minimised according to EU requirements. What more must we do for the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2250	On the part of the Christian People's Party, it is precisely what has to do with the legal assessments and the constitutional that has been the main focus of this matter. That is why we have proposed and wanted the Supreme Court to make an assessment of the waiver of sovereignty and the constitutional aspects of this case. It is also because – and I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party is a very strong defender of the EEA Agreement – that having constant discussions about the legal environment is not what we deserve with all the time we want the EEA Agreement to last. It's served Norway well. We believe that there may occasionally be grounds for saying no, and asking the Supreme Court to consider the legal basis and the constitutional aspects we think should be a right track to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2255	A number of debates have been held on constitutional matters in the context of the discussion of the third energy market package. These are important debates, and I would also like to stress the importance of our role as magnification representatives being conscious and conscious of our responsibilities in the light of the Constitution. In this respect, I am probably not alone in registering the Christian People's Party's position on this matter. In effect, they wish to transfer the decision in the case to other governmental bodies. It may not come as a surprise that the Christian People's Party has had a problem deciding lately, but it is something new when you now try to push decisions to be made in this room, to others. I would like to recall the principles of power distribution and the fact that the Storting is the legislative body in Norway. This means that it is the Stortinget and no other decision to include the third energy market package in Norway. My question to the representative is therefore: Has the Christian People's Party forgotten the fact that the Stortinget is the legislative body in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2262	No, it hasn't been in the forgetbook who's the legislative body, but we're also dealing with the Constitution. Section 83 of the Constitution provides an opportunity to ask for a legal review of another body, and we point to the Supreme Court. It has nothing to do with our power-allocation principle. The Constitution gives us that opportunity. This is not the first time the Christian People's Party has promoted a similar proposal. When we dealt with the issue of financial supervision, we also promoted such a proposal, and we also registered that in the Storting there was no majority for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2267	There is no doubt that the Christian People's Party has a history that strongly defends the EEA Agreement. That the Christian People's Party is now saying it's time to use the space for action, I think it's interesting. I want to challenge the representative Becquerad: what is it in this case that makes the Christian People's Party want to exploit the space for action contained in the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2272	This is for the same reasons as when we said no to what was involved in financial supervision, for the same reasons as when we said no to the Data Storage Directive. This is about giving away sovereignty and governance over an incredibly important area for Norway, which energy, of course, is – and we all agree on that. But it's not entirely new that the Christian People's Party has handled things this way. Among other things, I mentioned: data storage Directive. Fortunately, there was nothing of that. But it's not the first time that the Christian People's Party chooses to take such a position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2277	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2282	Let it be clear: this is a matter of climate and renewable revolution. Therefore, large parts of the environmental movement agree that Norway should join the Acer and the third energy market package. Together with the vast majority of environmental organisations, the Greens say yes to Norway's participation in this European renewable energy challenge, and we agree to give priority to the future of soil and ecosystems in the face of national and sluggish economic interests. We are pleased that we have reached a good agreement, and thank you for a good cooperation with the Workers' Party and with the government that ensures both national control of Norwegian natural resources and stronger nature considerations. There's a slightly unusual coalition of parties that say yes to energy cooperation. The case sheds light on an important dividing line between the Greens and large parts of the traditional left-hand side of Norwegian politics, including the Centre Party, because the green movement is consistent internationalists, while parts of the traditional left-hand side are more nationally oriented. The Greens put consistent climate and environment first, while the traditional left-hand side often abandons environmental policy if it is not popular enough or nationalistic enough. In the debate on Acer, this has become clear, too much of the left is willing to downgrade the world's environment and climate in order to protect national interests in this matter. The arguments vary from batch to batch and from actor to actor. One example is that many in SV, as the representative Haltbrecken, have clearly rejected parts of the rhetoric of No to the EU. However, they are on the opposite side of a close overall environmental movement and the Greens/Greens/EFA. However, the review rate among actors who say no to cooperation here today is: Norway is the most important. Solidarity stops at a cross-border level. In the Norwegian Acer discussion, low power prices have suddenly become more important for us nordics, the world's richest and most privileged population than emissions cuts and efficiency improvements. It has become more important that the Nordics should be able to let Teslaen and melt the snow in front of the carport almost free of charge than to contribute to reasonable and clean energy in the Polish kitchen and to shut down German coal power plants. The future of the grandchildren is to be downgraded in order for the world's most privileged people to continue to have the world's lowest electricity prices. The social profile of such a policy is miserable. The impact on Europe's climate change is serious. Therefore, this is a sad day for large parts of the left side of Norway. For the environmental challenges are global, they link all of humanity together in a community of fate. Today, the news came that climate emissions are increasing again in the world. The main reason why that happens is exactly the same self-centered way of thinking that has shaped a lot of the ACER debate. Myths, suspicions, and unwillingness are spread against international cooperation. The fear that people in other countries will gain benefits is so intense that the climate has to wane, even in parties where many have a strong and honest climate exposure. It proves that the environmental exposure on parts of the left side of Norway is impotent in meeting tough priorities. The Green and Right sides probably have quite different motivations. From our point of view today, this is not about free trade ideology for us. On the contrary, we distance ourselves from the one-sidedness of the right after the deregulation of maximum freedom of capital, often at the expense of nature. We also recognise that there are several real, demanding dilemmas in the debate on ACER. That's also why one third of our government and many of our elected trustees have come to a different conclusion than the majority of the party. That's also why we set clear conditions for joining ACER, conditions such as more nature protection, national control and national ownership of resources. We also believe that the issue of sovereignty is so important that the practice should be reviewed by the Supreme Court, and I therefore address our proposal and advise support for the proposal for treatment under the Basic Law § 115. But when these conditions are fulfilled, we have to ask ourselves: is it really right that Norway's first veto in EEA cooperation should be on a matter of power and climate cooperation? In the EU, the environmental movement and our green sister party work together with others to make European climate change a reality. Because we can choose to pull up the ladder after us, build walls and start the release of the EU's renewables, or we can choose a vital solidarity across borders and generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2297	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2304	It is an important matter we are dealing with today, and I would like to thank the representative Stoknes for what I think was a very good point, both in terms of what this matter is about and not about, and in terms of the dilemmas you face. In both the Green Party and my own party, there are different ways of balancing it, but a decision has now been made that is behind both of our parties. I want to bring up one of the themes that the representative Haltbrecken started talking about. He talked about this debate not about cables. Nevertheless, there has been a great deal up in the debate. That is why I would like to ask the Greens about their views on foreign tables, both from a climate perspective and from a nature conservation perspective here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2311	The Green Party's view of power cables is positive, because this is about delivering power balancing, i.e. – to put it technically – TW, not TWh. This means that we can have a double climate effect from our cables, both by replacing power use in Europe when it's not blowing or not enough sun, and then preventing it from firing in coal power plants, and by allowing power balancing to avoid investing in extra and unnecessary fossil energy. For example, the German national cable under construction can supply 1.4 GW of electricity, and when it is used instead of a coal-fired power plant – when it stops blowing in Denmark and Germany – the effect of one such cable is equivalent to a cut of approx. 1500 tonnes of CO 2 per hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2320	First of all, this ‘discipline’ of all those running Tesla: Altruism is not the only way to cut greenhouse gas emissions. I just want to remind you that when people choose Tesla in front of a big Audi SUV, it can be very nice. In this debate we have seen quite violent reactions to the introduction of something that will help cut greenhouse gas emissions in Europe. Whether you are a member of the EU or one: Norway is, in any case, a part of Europe. Greenhouse gases do not turn around at Svinesund. We therefore share a shared responsibility to contribute to the objectives we have set ourselves in Paris. At the same time, renewable energy deployment – I am thinking not only of the cables but also of other types of renewable energy – can be at the expense of one of the most beautiful things we have in Norway: nature. That is why I am a little curious about whether the Greens are going to be most concerned with nature protection or climate change mitigation and renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2327	The Greens are going for both. We must help Europe to speed up the process of the renewable revolution, where 100 pst. by the energy system shall be renewable and shall then have to be powered and exchanged. But we cannot allow such an infinite number of cables to lead to an expansional pressure in Norwegian nature that causes several rivers to be built down and more wind power to be built up on land. Therefore, we will primarily focus on energy efficiency improvement, because up to 10–30 TWh can be picked up on efficiency improvements in industry and in construction. You can also get a lot of power by optimizing and upgrading today's power supply, 7-20 TWh. Then it is possible to drive electric cars, have more metal industry and even export more without building up another river. We have to bet on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2332	The essence of environmental protection has always been the desire to protect nature, and center parties are naked people. Even I drive an old Opel, which I intend to use up before I go to the new acquisition of a Tesla or what it might be. Something on electricity is probably going to be. The question is whether the Greens have forgotten the whole of their zeal to give national sovereignty to the free market in their fight for climate. For the consequences, we are at risk of increased power travel in Norwegian watercourses, described as “organic army” by engineer and flyfisher Jostein Henriksen in the Evening Post on 20 March, and associated rapid changes in water flow, water levels and temperatures, which cause fish, estuaries and insects to beach, spawning pits, fish eggs and insect larvae to be dried, protections to be destroyed, and birds to drain the river for prey. Is not the Green Party afraid of this effect when we are going to be Europe's green battery?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2341	It's touching to hear the Center Party's newly won commitment to beavers, river shells and the construction of rivers for hydropower. We have another case for treatment right now, about Øystese, where the centre party goes in for minimal protection. The crucial thing in this case is not to run power, but how to run power, and not least how the concession conditions given for efficient driving are followed up. It's too bad today. That's why you get some of the results that are real, because people do power driving in a little considerate way to the biodiversity of rivers. On the other hand, there are plenty of possibilities for upgrading existing hydropower and using existing magazines to run power in a gentle way between the warehouses instead of rinsing the rivers. So in this area, we need more control and follow-up of local actors that are destroying local rivers, which the Center Party would like to build up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2348	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2353	In 1909 the Stortinget decided that the hydropower belonged to the people and would benefit the community. The power of the Footfalls laid the foundation for the Norwegian industrial venture and today Norway is a world-leading green industrial nation that uses the hydropower to process metals and minerals that the world needs, with much less CO 2 emissions than our competitors. The powerful industry, built on Norwegian hydropower, exports 118 billion. kr per year. It creates thousands of green jobs and is the industrial basis for innovation and industrial development in forward-looking industries. It ensures employment and housing along our coast. Today, however, the Storting can adopt the end of this industrial venture, because the Right, Left and Advance Party, together with the Labour Party and the Greens, will place Norway under the EU Energy Agency. This means that the EU is gaining greater influence over our most important eternal resource, hydropower. The goal of the EU is an integrated electricity market across Europe, with a maximum of 2 ear price differences on the flow. ACER shall ensure that there is a sufficient free flow of electricity to achieve the target. It is this agency that these parties want Norway to give sovereignty to – an agency to which we do not even have the right to vote. If foreign interests are controlled by the Norwegian hydropower, they can use Norway as a commodity supplier, as a battery for the industry on the continent. It can bring billions of dollars in value creation and thousands of green jobs out of Norway. So the Acer trailers say: a Norwegian authority is being created to regulate the use of the power cables. But this authority must be completely disconnected from Norwegian democracy, from corruption and government. It shall be subject to EU decisions. It shall do as the EU has decided. This means that the EU is given power over the use of Norwegian export cables. And Norway, like a major energy producer, does not have the same interests as the EU, which is a major energy importer. However, if there is a conflict about the use of cables or the construction of new cables, the European Energy Agency may adopt binding decisions. So the Acer trailers say that the agreement between the parties ensures that the Norwegian authorities have full control and control. But as long as we do not have a legally binding agreement with the EU on this matter, the agreement does not really mean anything to the world, because it is the EU that ultimately decides. After the election loss in the fall, the Workers' Party promised that there would be fewer settlements with the right side. They would be tougher against the EU. They were to use the action space in the EEA Agreement. In this case, the Workers' Party has the opportunity to follow the words. They have a whole LO, AUF and a majority of their own rapporteurs and counties in their backs. But what do they do? Yes, they go with the Right, the Advance Party and the EU on their own basic plan and the whole trade movement. And in order to get the top people of the Workers' Party through the EU's will, they are taking steps to misinform their own population, as the Prime Minister involuntarily revealed in this Chamber yesterday. I think the political disdain is increasing when people see that the political elite despite the people's will in this way. Places like Årdal, Sunndal, Sauda, Høyanger, Odda, Karmøy, Her Island and Mo in Rana have been Workers' Party bastions, because the Workers' Party has been the guarantor of the powerful industry. With the subjugation under Acer, it's over. I would like to say to the many in the LO and the Labour Party who have fought as lions with us against Acer, that they are cordially welcome to build a political alternative with us, because it is completely unworthy that our strongest industrial communities along the coast, capable trusted and engaged party members should bend their necks to an elite in Oslo with zero grassroots contacts, and that joins with the Progress Party and the Right to sign Brussels and the European Union. Norway needs a working party that fights for democratic control of our natural resources and for the jobs of the powerful industry. I will bring this up in the Red's motion for a referendum.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2377	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2384	I think it is healthy for the representative of Moxnes first to warn against misinformation, and then come and say that we should put control of Norwegian power and Norwegian sovereignty under ACER, when it is then until those degrees are fixed both in this debate and in the setting that that is not what is happening. We agree to some common rules, and you have to have common rules if you're going to act on the market. These are very important things, and it's not like we made a deal with the government. If someone made a settlement, it's the government parties with us. We were in a government that started this work, and we are happy that it is now brought to an end. I find it a little difficult to understand what is Red's real view of power exchange. Should we shut down power inside Norway? Then we will miss out on large sales revenues. We can't make so much industry that we spend all of that profit. Should we refuse foreign electricity to enter and be used, e.g. Every night in the Norwegian power-intensive industry, as we do today? If that is not what you mean: What rules does Red think you should use in this cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2397	Let me just get rid of that strawman first: we're for power exchange, we've had it since the 1960s in Norway. We have full security of supply with today's cables. Additional cables will, of course, lead to harmonisation of prices, i.e. that we are getting higher prices of electricity in Norway and that they are getting lower prices in the EU. For us, it is important to make sure that our industry gets electricity at cheap prices. So there's a climate point in this, that we produce aluminium and other metals with much lower emissions than those that fire gas or coal in China. It produces eight times more emissions of aluminium on coal than on hydropower in Norway. The reason why LO is now concerned about and approaches Acer is that it sees that giving the right to dispose of the policy to the EU – not least if there is a dispute, that they can actually decide in a country-to-country dispute about transfer capacity – can lead to more cables and thus also to higher price imports.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2404	Red is too high power prices. Anyone who uses a lot of electricity, as we do in Norway, has to pay dearly to warm up their homes. I understand that, all the time Red is against all measures that can contribute to cheap imports of electricity into Norway. It's all right, they just don't talk very loud about it. On the other hand, what I'm not going to vote completely is that Red is to bet on hydropower for energy efficiency and for wind turbines at sea. We already have a surplus of electricity, and these measures will further increase profits, but they will not share, and Red is according to its own web pages against cables. Is it the case that Red wants the state to be rich in electricity at the expense of Norwegian consumers and Norwegian industry? And why will it not be Red that Norwegian clean force should contribute solidarityly to emissions cuts in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2412	Firstly, we contribute to a better climate by producing metals that the world needs, instead of hydropower on gas and coal as our competitors do. Secondly, we are not concerned about the Tesla owners, but about the 250 000 people in Norway who have so little advice that they have to give priority between owning two pairs of shoes and paying the electricity bill. We are for a two-price system with low prices for those who have normal consumption, and then put on the price for those who have a luxury consumption – both to save electricity and to have a socially equitable system for the electricity price. We're not at increased prices for ordinary people who have a normal consumption, but we're at increased prices for those who heat up their garage, have a couple of Teslaer e.l. It's about thinking about both social considerations and exporting metals through climate friendly production in Norway instead of gas and coal in China.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2417	It would have been tempting to take a line on the reply, but I will not do that, as far as the luxury consumption is concerned. The representative of Moxnes was in the field of political disdain in his speech. I don't think I can imagine anything that would create more political contempt than to invite to a referendum on Acer: a referendum on – hey? Had the invitation been to vote on whether to withdraw from the EEA Agreement, it might have made sense and also an engagement. From powerful industrial production sites, the representative Moxnes Raufoss did not mention. I live in Gjøvik, and the Raufoss industry delivers automobiles to the whole world, to every car in the world. The first thing they say when I visit is: don't touch the EEA Agreement, the market is the most important, not the electricity price. What has Red to say to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2428	First to the referendum: we believe that the wit is fairly equally distributed in the country, it's not just present in the main hall. For matters of crucial importance that may be irreversible, such as giving away sovereignty over power policy, it would be right, we believe, to let the people express their opinion in an advisory referendum. We have faith that people are able to understand what this is all about. It also shows that far more out there is against Acer than in here because they've probably understood how important it is to keep national control of power policy. As far as the EEA Agreement is concerned, there is growing opposition to it, including in the export-oriented industry, because many people see that we get right-wing policy imports from Brussels, and that the horrors of the almost stoppage of trade between Norway and the EU are just horrors. For the EU, the goods we produce need, and vice versa, and we will of course be able to deal with the EU as we do with other countries around the world, where we have normal trade agreements instead of an agreement requiring Norway to import EU laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2435	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2440	The winter's debate on the third energy market package has been marked by great commitment and feelings. It is not so strange – everyone in Norway has a relationship with our hydropower. Just like oil and gas on the base, the hydropower is our common resource. It has provided the basis for the industrialisation of Norway and is largely owned by all of us jointly through municipalities, county municipalities and the state. Similarly, issues about the EU always give rise to high levels of involvement in Norway. Hydropower and the EU in the same debate will be a powerful discussion. When the debate gets so emotional and the commitment is so big, it's easy to lose sight of what the matter is really about. Unfortunately, the facts often come in second rows. Norway is already part of the European energy cooperation through the first and second energy market package adopted in 1996 and 2003. It has served us well as a large exporter of both power and gas. Today, we have a surplus of renewable energy, and on a daily basis, we are exchanging strength both with the other Nordic countries and with Europe. We import, among other things, reasonable wind power when demand is low in Europe and we can export Norwegian renewable hydropower when demand is high in Europe. Then we can turn our production up. It is a win-win situation for Norway, and it ensures our security of supply – both for households, for power-intensive industry and for business. We're going back no further than 2010 – then we had a power crisis in Middle Norway, and we were in a situation where we had to import power net. We are the seventh largest exporter of gas in the world, and today we cover 25 pst. of EU gas consumption. In fact, we produce more gas than oil on a Norwegian base. It brings huge revenues to the community – and Europe is our customer. With such a starting point, we are well served to develop an open and functioning energy market in Europe that provides predictability for Norwegian players. The third energy market package and the ACER are a natural continuation of this. In order to meet the climate objectives, the EU will gradually replace coal power with renewable energy sources. Several countries also aim to phase out nuclear power. While coal and nuclear power stations tend to be close to the large consumption areas, solar and wind energy is produced in large areas. It requires the harmonisation of technical legislation, trade systems, market orientation and the development of networks between regions and countries on the continent. The third energy market package and the Acer shall contribute to this. It is primarily a technical regulation to ensure open and functioning markets. ACER, the Agency for the Cooperation of National Energy Regulators in each country, is neither more nor less than that – a cooperative body to provide advice and guidance on the further development of energy markets in Europe. They shall not take over national energy policies in each country and shall not have legislative powers. As regards part of the claims that have been made in social media and in the debate, let me state: Norwegian energy resources shall remain Norwegian. Norwegian authorities will continue to have full control and control over Norwegian energy resources and Norwegian energy policy. ACER itself will not contribute to any increase in the electricity price in Norway. In other words, governments will continue to deal with concessions on the development of new renewable energy, the deployment of the network and, where appropriate, the development of new foreign tables. In the case of cables, we in the government are concerned with the balance between the development of Norwegian power generation and the transmission capacity of international connections. For the treatment of new cables, socio-economic profitability, nature considerations and impacts on the power system shall be central, including the acquisition of experience with existing cables and the analysis of the cables under development. In conclusion, an uncertainty has been created about this today – at the latest through the VG, between the undersigned and the Prime Minister – about what was said yesterday, and what was said today. I'm saying the same thing now as yesterday: we're going to deal with the rules that apply to foreign houses, and the leaders that are given in this room, when dealing with NorthConnect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2485	There has been a concern in this debate as to whether exchange capacity is contrary to Norwegian industrial construction. We've already discussed that a number of times today. But I would like to hear a little about the thoughts of the Council of State on how to now proactively build up both increased power generation and increased power-intensive industry, and not least about the ideas that I know, among other things. Statnett is now thinking about North Norway, whether it is something that will have the Council of State and the government's support, so that we can now build even more an industry linked to our access to very clean and very reasonable power.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2490	When the government presented the Energy Communication in 2016, we were very clear from two perspectives: the consumer perspective and the fact that we are going to use Norwegian power to create values and jobs in Norway. Today we have a surplus of renewable energy, approx. 15 TWh per year in the last five years. This is the power that we have all the opportunities to take advantage of by further expanding the traditional power-intensive industry in Norway, bringing home jobs from abroad, also in line with digitisation and the opportunities it provides for the introduction of new technologies, and then with low CO2 emissions producing important materials and products at home. At the same time, our power provides opportunities to use renewable energy, clean energy, in new economic areas, for example. green data centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2495	I also need to clarify a little bit about the NorthConnect concession request. I understand that what the Council of State is saying today is that the concession request is going to go as planned. It shall be dealt with in accordance with the applicable legislation and will take into account the socio-economic profitability, nature considerations and operation of power systems. It is to the extent that the usual conditions are always taken into account when examining concession applications for power cables. But is it that one will also go through the experience of the two power cables under construction before a decision is made on NorthConnect?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2500	It said here in the Chamber of the Question Time yesterday, and the Erna Solberg, the Prime Minister, underlined in the Chamber here yesterday and also in Facebook posts later in the day, is that we are going to deal with the NorthConnect application under the legislation that is in force, because it has already come in. In this context, both the social economy, the nature and the impact on the Norwegian power system should be assessed, including, of course, experience and analysis of both existing cable capacity abroad and the two cables currently under development. So there's no contradiction between what was said yesterday and what is being said today. What has been tried to pull up as a discord is a design to create an uncertainty associated with NorthConnect and that cable, which really has nothing to do with the third energy market package and the Acer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2505	I understand that the concession treatment is going to go as normal. But the problem is that the two cables under construction will not be completed until 2020–2021. So NorthConnect also says on their websites that they want to start construction in 2020 and be finished in 2022. If you want to gain experience with the two cables that are now being built, before a starter for NorthConnect, it just won't work. It would not be possible if one were to follow the schedule set by NorthConnect. So my question is still: will a harvest experience with the two cables under construction, before a decision is made on NorthConnect?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2513	When it comes to the concession treatment of the NorthConnect application, it is the authorities that determine its progress. We have a thorough examination of the applications for both a foreign concession and a concession. We have now commissioned the NVE to prepare the matter and make their assessments. As part of this, you have a hearing until April 15. The hearing was also held. Then we're going to make thorough assessments based on the criteria that I just outlined, and the result of that is going to determine how we treat this in the future, how progress is being treated. But it's not NorthConnect that defines the progress of concessional treatment, it's the Norwegian authorities that do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2518	I want to ask the Council of State Søvikens the same question that I asked Right earlier today. In this case, we have seen a Progress Party that loyally follows the EU. However, as the Council of State knows, representatives of the Right-Fremskrit Party government have previously been in Brussels to counter the EU’s increased commitment to renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement, in the interests of export of fossil gas from Norway. Does the new line of the Progress Party towards the EU, where we loyally follow the EU in this matter, mean that they will stop countering the EU's efforts to strengthen their ambitions to strengthen the commitment to renewable energy and energy efficiency?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2523	Let there be no doubt: the government — both in the previous period and this extended to the Left — is hedging the EU’s efforts to develop new energy sources to develop new renewable energy sources. But it is also important to stress the role that gas can play in the energy transformation that is now taking place. We see this in very good examples in the United Kingdom, where a CO2 tax has been introduced that has actually cut coal-fired energy production by 60 pst. in two years. That equals 24 pst. reduction in CO2 emissions from the electricity sector, corresponding to 25 tonnes reduction in CO2 emissions, only because it has been possible to phase out coal and absorb Norwegian gas. So there is no contradiction in promoting Norwegian gas while at the same time being concerned that Europe is developing good markets both for renewable energy and for gas – which is really the third energy market package and Acer is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2528	In the heated ACER debate, the impression has been made that there is a shortage of power in Norway and that it can significantly increase prices. We in the Green Party are concerned that we have a lot of waste with power in Norway. So my question to the Council of State is: will the government step up efforts to improve energy efficiency and upgrade existing facilities, and could this become more restrictive to the development of new rivers and wind power on land? Today, the Green Party, together with the government parties, has put forward proposals for much faster progress in the development of sea wind. What is the view of the Council of State of securing access to power from such a more natural renewable source?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2535	Firstly, the government is concerned with energy efficiency improvement. That's good in the big picture. We follow it up in a number of areas, through, for example, Enova, which is our most important climate action and our most important tool in energy efficiency improvement. We will follow up the Storting's request to bring down the consumption in barley by 10 TWh. We're actively working on that. Nevertheless, we will not stop the further development of renewable energy – more renewable energy is now being built in Norway, under this government, than in 25 years. It is good for everyone, both for consumers in households, for the business community and for the state and the other public owners of renewable energy. In the case of sea wind, we have put forward a sea wind strategy in the budget proposal for the autumn. We'll follow it up in terms of the supplier industry, and then we'll come back with the opening of one to two pilot areas for offshore sea wind along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2542	The National Government of the Workers' Party sent its management into the negotiations with one imperative requirement: that no new cable should be assessed before the experience with two cables that are already under construction has been gained. This means that a third cable, that is, NorthConnect, can be assessed at the earliest when the two being built are built and we gain experience of what it has to say for the power prices and conditions of our power-intensive industry. But then something else is said from the Council of State and the Prime Minister: that you should gain experience and make thorough analyses of the cables that already exist or are under construction. The question we need to get an answer to is: Will the Council of State wait until the two cables are built and we can gain experience from them before considering the NorthConnect concession request?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2549	I repeat what I have said earlier in relation to the criteria that are considered related to any application for new foreign relations. We have said yesterday, and we say today, that the government will follow up what is now available as a position today – and hopefully a result of Storting's treatment of the third energy market package and Acer – in terms of the leadership of the documents, and will keep it together with a treatment under the legislation that applies today. I hope to understand that we are early in the process of processing the application from NorthConnect. Now it is the NVE that has a task to investigate and hold a hearing, and before we have moved on in that process, I cannot go in and give some exact timelines for when that matter will be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2554	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2559	This issue is about the power market and the gas market of Europe and the regulatory authorities to which we are to deal, and the objective that all cooperation between countries should be directed in order to achieve the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement. The case is both demanding and complex. It has a lot of elements in it, and they're pretty much connected. There's a lot of commitment around the country. Important questions have been asked through that commitment, and they have been answered. Important demands have been made, which have also been met by the agreement we are adopting today. As a force socialist, we in the Workers' Party are constantly committed to seeing opportunities for a good industrial policy, a good climate policy and a good labour market policy. It's good if it's connected and works well. The third energy market package was presented to the Committee before Christmas. No to the EU was eager to send out information that this matter, and the connection we might give, and specifically ACER, would help Norway to withdraw its sovereignty. That is why the Committee called on the Legal Service to do so in particular. We got two answers. The first answer was on 26 pages – a long document that helped to clarify that access to Acer provides no basis for a refusal of sovereignty. We've been dealing with that. ACER is a cooperative body between the countries of Europe and will act as a regulator to make the flow of energy contribute to achieving the climate goals, as I said before. The Nordic market in which we operate has worked in the same way for many years and has served us well. In More and Romesdal, from which I come, we got the Nea-Järpen line in place and the power line and the power cable from Sogndal up to Ørsta and Ørskog. It has been incredibly important for us to have security of supply for the force. It contributes to safe jobs. It helps industrial developers dare to bet, dare to evolve and not least invest in new projects. Much of the time we now have a surplus of electricity in Norway. That's why we can go out into the market we have access to, and sell expensive power and buy cheap when the industry needs it. That's what's been contributing to the inter-national connections we have today. The next question many people are asking is whether we get higher prices if we go into the third energy market package. The answer to that is no, for in this case we cannot decide whether it is sun or wind, whether it is cold or hot, or whether demand is large or small, at home or outside. But it's these factors that play at the price initially, and Acer's task is to help get a good flow of power between countries. We have already achieved the EU's 2030 targets in this area. The Nordic power market works well. The challenge in the EU is more to make the rest of Europe do what we have done in the Nordic region, through cross-border co-operation. In fact, more renewable energy across Europe will contribute to lower electricity prices, because of the CO 2 tax, coal power is more expensive than renewable energy. Our intention has been to be on the inside of a power and gas market that is important for Norwegian industry, and that has served us well for 20 years, while we have established a policy based on industrial development here in Norway, that we also take responsibility for achieving the climate goals, and that we do not deny ourselves any of the rights of either sovereignty or inheritance silver. That is what this agreement we have reached is based on. So to our trusted at home in the different states that are wondering what their representatives are going to vote today. To them I would say that the big groups have had their rounds. The working party has had five rounds in the big group where we have discussed this. The various representatives from each State have attended their annual meetings. There it has been both yes and no. Both the national government and the group meeting in the Workers' Party have arrived on a majority, but all the demands we have made on the consequences have been fulfilled in the agreement. That means that everyone from the Workers' Party today is voting yes, but they have also brought critical voices from the counties and done what they can to bring about the unrest and the concern that lies behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2579	Nine years ago, the European Union adopted what we are debating today, the third energy market package. And logically, since this is the third, it follows from the first and the second. In other words, we are already involved in cooperation on energy in Europe. This has been part of our everyday life for many years. For an energy nation like Norway, that's good. So three important clarifications: the legacy silver remains ours, Norway will continue to rule over Norwegian power, and power prices do not rise as a result of connection to ACER. This package is a set of rules on the regulation of electricity and gas markets. What we are debating today is little more than changes in rules, or updates of rules, from 2003. These are rules that Norway has already implemented and that have been uncontroversial. Much of what we are discussing is already current practice in Norway, and in reality that means that the EU is approaching the system we have in the Nordic countries, and not the other way around. In the last 20 years, the EU has developed a common energy policy, such as: shall meet the climate objectives that we have in Europe. An example is to facilitate the phase-in of local, renewable small-scale power generation. The EU Energy Union is good for Norway, it is good for value creation and it is good for security of supply, but most importantly: it is good for the climate. Because this is what this is all about: Europe's way towards a renewable everyday life. If everyone is in favour of a renewable society, and if we already work together on energy, what changes are we really doing today? Basically, we're left with one thing: ACER. So what's actually ACER? If all the claims that thrive on ACER had been true, I would also have been against, for who would well have higher power prices, and who would lose the right to power? No one. Now I'm going to be very careful to speak on behalf of other parties, but I'm still going to push myself to the following statement: Not one of the 169 representatives in the Stortinget is to lose power over Norwegian law. No one is going to take our footfalls, no one is going to steal our inheritance silver, and although we are harmonising the rules for the organisation of power markets, Norway still has, of course, sovereignty over the disposal of its own energy resources and its own energy policy. Norwegian legislation on power network and power plant concessions will continue to apply. No one suggests changing it. So what can they really decide, then? The regulation confers competence on ACER to promote three things: ‘opinions’, ‘recommendations’ and ‘binding decisions’. The first two categories allow ACER to make recommendations on technical aspects by promoting cross-border flow trading. None of them are binding. So that's the third category. Acer has been given the power to take binding decisions on cross-border flows, i.e. not in Norway, but only if the countries themselves are unable to reach agreement, or if the countries voluntarily ask Acer to resolve issues on which they disagree. So it's just that Acer can have to get involved in cases where countries have already decided to establish cooperation. These decisions take ACER very rarely. So if ACER means so little, why are we for today, and why are we for more energy cooperation? Because it's about climate. It is about the transition from fossil to renewable energy: solar, water and wind ahead of coal. We need renewable energy, and we need it to be emission-free and cheap. Without it, we do not achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Half of all greenhouse gas emissions in the EU come from energy supply, for example: from coal-fired power plants. Here Norway can play a very special role, because hydropower can be stored, as opposed to sun and wind. Norway is therefore central. That's why we have to exchange power. This is why it creates growth and jobs in Norway. But it requires Europe in the years ahead to actually cooperate on how we develop the power systems. That is what we are voting for today. That's why we're for. We have to choose between climate and protectionism. For the right, the choice is very simple: we choose the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2594	The survey addresses the question of whether Norway will join the EU’s third energy market package. The question has aroused a great deal of commitment. Many have been genuinely concerned. Many have doubted the legality of this. The legality has been clarified, and with regard to the concerns, I believe that we have been in a process, we have made a number of clarifications, demands, changes to respond to them. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that the hydropower resources continue to belong to the Community. In examining this case, the Workers' Party will therefore ensure that basic principles of Norwegian energy policy are to be pursued. Norway is part of an integrated power market. Norway has been trading power with the rest of the world since the 1960s. It has brought great benefits to both industry, power producers and consumers. Norwegian power supply was built around the industry. The interaction between the power-intensive industry and the power supply is crucial today. Hydropower has been and is the key to the development of Norway as an industrial nation. It is still at the heart of Norwegian power generation and provides value creation for society as a whole, not just for the powerful industry. Historically, Norway has been in a special position in terms of access to renewable energy. 98 pst. power generation comes from renewable renewable renewable hydropower. Climate challenges make renewable resources even more important. As a result, Norway has great opportunities as a supplier of both gas and power. At the same time, Norway needs to facilitate the export of surplus power. We have a surplus of power in Norway. At the same time, we know that there will be more wind power, not least in Nordland and Troms and with grid expansion in Finnmark. Lots of wind power will come if you put it together. Finnmark has large wind power resources. The 420 kWh line has been adopted extended to Skaidi in West Finland. Further expansion to Nesseby in East Finland requires increased consumption. Increased wind power generation alone cannot justify costs. I am therefore very pleased that Statnett is pursuing new business development in Finnmark. Statnet has taken an initiative towards several major actors to address potential consumption needs that could justify west-east-to-west expansion. The aim is to work with stakeholders to mature consumption plans that can provide a basis for moving forward with increased network capacity to East Finland. In the pursuit of new consumption, Statnett establishes a group consisting of Avinor, Enova, Gassco, Statkraft and Petoro. Other actors will also be involved in the work, and Statnett provides for regular dialogue with power companies and social actors in the north. The costs of new wind power have fallen significantly in recent years. The interest in setting up data centres is increasing. Other interesting plans for the electrification of ports, airports and inland transport as well as the establishment of fibre infrastructure, both nationally and internationally, have also been raised. Possibilities for conversion of power into transportable form such as hydrogen or ammonia should also be highlighted, and we know that hydrogen is currently being produced based on wind power in Berlevåg in Finnmark. So renewable energy supply will continue to build society and industry. As Else-May Botten was inside: we have gone some thorough rounds both internally and with external actors. We have tried to address the concerns, meet them with new points, with changes in the original. We have a decision in the Labour Party that says that the majority wants to go for it, and that means that the whole group is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2614	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2619	Norwegian power generation is a huge resource that has been an important success factor behind the development of our common welfare systems, and it will continue to be in the future. In addition, Norwegian power generation is crucial for the ongoing transition to a lower-carbon society, both here in Norway and in Europe. As a major energy act, Norway has been an integral part of EU energy policy for more than 20 years through the EEA Agreement. In particular, as regards exports of gas to Europe, Norway will have an interest in sound market conditions. Exports of gas give us hundreds of billions of dollars in income. As a municipal politician, I also know that the surplus after the sale of Norwegian energy is an important source of income for Norwegian municipalities, which ensures large amounts for Norwegian kindergartens, schools and hospitals. While the debate has been going on here today, I have received an e-mail from the energy group Lyse that they will pay 500 million in 2018. SEK dividends distributed among the 16 municipalities of ownership. The issue of connection to the Common Energy Regulator, Acer, as part of the EU's third energy package, and of what influence it will have on Norwegian energy policy, has – as we have seen today – created a major debate. Many have been concerned that basic principles of ownership and control of our common natural resources will come under pressure if Norway incorporates the third energy market package into the EEA Agreement. But let there be no doubt: the Workers' Party has been and will always be a guarantor that our power resources belong to the community and the Norwegian people. In order to ensure continued ownership and control of natural resources, the Workers' Party has implemented clear requirements and prerequisites in the agreement with the Government Parties and the Environmental Party of the Greens, among others. that the official control and public ownership of Norwegian hydropower resources shall be established, that Norwegian authorities shall have independent control over all decisions relevant to energy security in Norway, that Acer shall not have decision-making authority over Norwegian energy companies or Norwegian energy policy, and that decisions on any new foreignables shall remain a sovereign decision taken by Norwegian authorities. In conclusion, as a municipal politician in a medium-sized municipality like Gésdal, I am in no way a part of what the Red calls the Oslo elite, but on the contrary, a part of the grassroots.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2632	Why have I stood up and been against ACER? I want to start with this. Well, that's precisely because I was afraid to lose control of our energy. I was afraid of what could come in the next directive. The proposal from the government was, as I and many with me saw, a transfer of the decision-making image from Norway to ACER and RME. Who would decide on a Norwegian energy company? Who would decide on Norwegian energy policy? Who would decide if we had new landscapes or not? New cables and free flow of energy across borders would have resulted in higher prices. Hence, the point of extraterrestrials is so important to me that comes from Høyanger, which is called many times here, and to our industry. There are several ways we can tackle this problem. The first one is to vote against, because we know what we have, but we don't know what we get. Do we? Is the status quo an alternative here? No, that's not it. We don't know what it's like to stand outside and the whole Nordic cooperation is part of ACER and the EU. There's going to be a new situation, anyway. Another option is to vote in favour, but under certain conditions, as we do – to have clear demands attached to this jaet, which means that we retain control and authority over power, demands that also take height for changes in future energy packages. The working party is aware that we are still going to have national control over energy policy. ACER shall not be given authority over Norwegian energy companies or Norwegian energy policy. And what about the tasks of RME, the new regulatory authority? She can limit the size of the image. The authority responsible for the design and adoption of regulations and laws shall remain in the Department, OED, and in the Directorate, NVE – just as it is today. Norway must therefore continue to determine our footfalls, over Norwegian energy policy. So to the EU's desire for free flow, it requires the construction of new outdoor landscapes for Norway's part. Then we are at the point of who will decide whether to build new outdoor landscapes – Norway or the EU? Of course, it should still be in Norway, where the Stortinge is united. And would a no to ACER ensure that no new outdoor landscapes are built and that North Connect is built? No, it wouldn't. There's probably a deal in Stortinget too. I am pleased that with the additional points that the Labour Party has worked on in the agreement, we keep Norwegian control of our energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2647	It is an important question for Norway that we are debating today, and there have been many good contributions that have made it clear that Acer is not about giving up sovereignty. We give neither the inheritance silver, decision-making power over the hydropower, power plants, power grids in Norway, nor the foreign tables. The ownership of Norwegian power resources remains Norwegian, but we strengthen climate and energy cooperation in Europe. A no to ACER would have created uncertainty about the EEA Agreement, with the consequences it would have for thousands of jobs, not least in districts. That is why I want to pay tribute to the responsibility of the majority of the population today. Norway is an energy storm power in the European context. The energy sector accounts for a large proportion of jobs and for the majority of trade exports and has significant ring-fences also for other export-oriented activities. So the possibility of participating in the European energy market is important. Nordic and European energy markets have already been closely linked through physical transfers and interconnected markets for decades. We have a good deal of that in Norway, because it ensures, among other things, that: our security of supply. It may be easy to forget that some regions in Norway have a power shortage, which is one of them. Even with the new powerlines northwards from Sogn, we are still completely dependent on Sweden's transmission lines to ensure security of supply. It ensures energy access to key industrial enterprises, such as: Norwegian Forest in Forest. Energy cooperation prevents us from getting a situation with very high electricity prices in Central Norway, which would also hit ordinary consumers hard. A large number of NHO companies across the country have gathered on a call for no uncertainty for industry and uncertainty about the EEA Agreement through the treatment of the Acer case. By going through the list, most of us will find one or more corner stone companies from their own constituency, companies that expect us at Stortinget to take care of their interests and not create uncertainties about the basis of jobs. Enterprises say yes to the EEA, yes to European energy cooperation and yes to climate change. Climate challenges are global. If we're going to be able to solve them, we're going to have to cooperate across borders. Cooperation with the EU is central to the development of new policies for the common fulfilment of the objectives of the Paris Agreement for the rest of the economy, such as: in transport, agriculture, construction and waste, etc. In this way, we take a shared responsibility in Europe to address common challenges. It doesn't keep thinking that we in Norway are going to be ourselves enough. It tastes of isolationism and protectionism, which in the next round would have hit us hard, and of which the world needs less, no more.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2662	The debate and the commitment that we have with regard to Acer have our impressive as well as thought-waking. When one hears claims that Norway, by joining the Third Energy Directive, gives away sovereignty over its own natural resources, and that it can go beyond the competitiveness of one of the most important industries we have, the power-intensive industry, it is understandable that people become skeptical – and opponents. On behalf of the Left, I would like to thank all the agencies, organizations and individuals who have spent a lot of resources and time making recordings for the Storting. And while many are sure to be hopeless about the outcome, there is little doubt that counterarguments have a significant impact on the final outcome. Even in the Left, which probably had the voice of the government's original proposals, well-founded counter-arguments have triggered a grievances to evaluate different elements further, and not least there is respect for the processes the Labour Party has had internally, and the tidy but improperly demanding way in which they have used the scepticism and resistance in the negotiations here in the House. In the negotiations, the Labour Party is anxious to take a decision to strengthen the framework and guarantee of Norwegian sovereignty and industrial interests and to meet a great deal of scepticism. They still have the opportunity to reverse the government decision in the previous period – that others other than Statnett can build their own extraterrestrial landscapes. The government now has to present a case that in turn guarantees Statnet's unity. The government must also include the processing of the NorthConnect request in accordance with the agreement points negotiated by the five parties, such as the one negotiated. means that we're going to gain experience and make thorough analyses of the cables that already exist, or are under construction, before we decide. All in all, the Left is well pleased with the decision that will be taken today. We do not have the right to dispose of our own natural resources, we have the same autonomy as we have in relation to new power cables and lines, and the agreement does not affect the price of power. And most importantly, the agreement ensures that Norway, along with the rest of Europe, strengthens a cooperation that is crucial for us to be united in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and avoiding the worst climate change in the future. And the climate challenges do not enable us to solve without close and committed cooperation. We all have a responsibility to contribute to that. It's about the freedom of our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2675	The right of consultation in energy policy is a fundamental part of the sovereignty we have as a nation. How we use our power has helped shape and build what Norway we are happy about. It has contributed to industrial production, it has contributed to value creation, it has contributed to jobs throughout the country. This will now be at stake by the majority when they give the EU power over vital parts of Norwegian energy policy. The EU's objective is an energy union. The EU objective is to provide an area of equal power prices, where one shall have a maximum of 2 øre difference per kilowatt hour within the area. One will remove bottlenecks. The EU has set up an Energy Agency to gain more and more power at the expense of individual countries: it is the EU's interests to govern – the EU as an energy importer. Norwegian interests should give way – Norway as an important energy exporter. It has been said from this pulpit here today that it is not about the surrender of sovereignty. Well, of course, it's about the surrender of sovereignty. It has also been said by the government itself, the government law department, through the statement that has come. The National Government of the Workers' Party has made eight mandatory demands to join the EU's third energy market package, and it was only a few hours after the agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party and the Green Party had been presented, before it was made visible to the world that the Labour Party's requirements were not met. The fate of NorthConnect is laid in the hands of Søviknes State Council. But what is even more problematic is the decision by the Workers' Party that there is an inevitable requirement that any further development of EU energy legislation should not conflict with these points. If this occurs, Norway must immediately cancel its reservation and refuse to do so. This assumption must be adopted in the Grand Duchy. No such decision is currently pending in the Grand Duchy. The closest one is that the majority of the committee says that there is no automatic way Norway will say yes in the future. There is no obligation to say no. Nor has a statement on what one Norwegian side intends to do. One has notified that one should do so, but no statement has been made, one has not received any clarifications from the EU. This should be voted against by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2688	There is a red thread through the Norwegian European policy that has been shaped by a large majority in this house, at least since World War II. It is based on the idea of peace; it is based on solidarity within security, social, cultural, environmental and not least economic cooperation. The Labour Party has stood as a pillar of this sense of solidarity in politics, and it is with great satisfaction that we feel that the party is holding on to this line. Solidarity policy has also been reflected in the Nordic area, including the Nordic countries. through the establishment of the Nordic power market, which has given us and the rest of the Nordic region a stable and good energy supply. The power market was liberalised during a Central Party State Council at the beginning of the 1990s, and the energy nation of Norway has been at the forefront of the development of today’s energy market growth. There is every reason to see the introduction of the third EU energy market package in the extension of this positive development, but energy cooperation has a completely different perspective today from 30 years ago. The reason for this is the great element of renewable energy that today characterises the European continent. In today’s situation, Norway’s production is based on large reserves of hydropower – being Europe’s battery pack, so to speak. The reason is that where the continent's production stops when the sun goes down and the wind stops, our own production continues as long as there is water in the warehouses, and it becomes more and more of today's climate situation. In this way, our energy provides for a better use of Europe's renewable energy. That is why the connection to the energy package is important. It concerns European solidarity in small and large-scale terms – or outside and inside – to reflect the title of the 2012 European Survey and is still useful reading. Some of us remember the EU battle in its inception through the first referendum on Norway's accession to the EC in 1972. We remember some of the arguments -- oil is ours, or expressed in a more poetic way in the song «Flee from the EEC, you stand in the way of the sun». It is with a certain sadness that we can see today that this slogan can now be turned against a part of the opposition to the energy package. Today there are others who can rightly be said to stand in the way of the sun – read the solar energy. I understand the uncertainty many have about the third energy market package and the energy agency Acer. International cooperation is often demanding. But at the same time, there is reason to point out that there has been a large-scale Acer counter-campaign that has been built on a fear that, in my view, has no greater value than the fear of Catholics and cheap wine, which was some of the content of the propaganda in 1972. Although big business politicians have been peppered with disinformation based on light arguments such as loss of heirloom silver, galloping power prices and as it is called in a brochure: No to transfer our power to Europe! What the last thing had to mean – we've been transferring power to Europe for 50–60 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2699	The matter that we are debating today has created a great commitment far beyond this house. That is good, because energy policies affect many different interests and interests in society. At the same time, I must also say that the use of words in this debate has been too hard. The champions have experienced being called swindlers and quislings, while we, as opponents, have been ridiculed and called brown and right populists. I think that is unworthy and unwise, and that at least does not provide a basis for good decisions. SV is in contrast to Norwegian Acer. We believe it is important that Norwegian elected bodies control the power grid and the electricity market, and we also know that ACER will be able to challenge the national control that we have today. So I hear more people here claim that this is primarily about climate and cooperation with Europe in the energy field. I think that the importance of Acer for climate action is seriously overestimated. It is therefore not an energy cooperation with the EU that SV refuses to do today. For the Acer case, it is not about the approval of any international cooperation or EU directive, but a trend in the EU where different EU regulatory authorities are increasingly empowered to take decisions that are binding on Norwegian authorities. During the previous period, this happened in the case of EU financial supervision, which has been discussed by many, and now is the case in the field of energy. New issues can come within telecommunications and data and are likely to be problematic as well. That is why it is wrong when it is claimed that this is not about the EU. Of course it does. When Norway joins these supervisory systems, we give sovereignty to bodies where we do not have the right to co-determination or to vote. In order for Norway to cope with this transfer of power, Norwegian administrative bodies are created which cannot be governed by Norwegian elected representatives. This form of governance suffers from a significant democratic deficit, and SV is committed to strengthening democracy, moving decisions downwards, not upwards. In addition to the immediate management lost by Norway, it is unclear how much national governance we will lose in the long term. We know that EU cooperation is dynamic and expanding, and we have seen many different examples of this in the EEA history of Norway. So it's still unclear what's going to happen, for example. with the European legislation on bottlenecks income from inter-territorial connections, income which is now often used to reduce network rentals in Norway. The legislation on the adoption of decisions in Acer may also be amended. Therefore, it would have been wise to postpone this decision until we could better say something about developments in the future. Therefore, SV is voting against the inclusion in the third market directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2720	Is the Workers' Party a party for the boys on the industrial floor? Does the Workers' Party listen to the girls on the same floor? I didn't think the Progress Party Council of Terje Søviknes could be quoted in the media with the sentence 'Eg and Espen agree' in such an important case for all the industrial communities that have been involved in building this country, where over 100 rapporteurs from the Workers' Party appreciate the importance of industrial workplaces. I believe the representative and party leader Jonas Gahr Støre also understand how important this matter is, since he took the time to travel to Mo in Rana yesterday to calm down the trade movement. The central party will continue to have the hydropower belonging to the community in the future. Norwegian authorities shall have independent control over energy in Norway. That's why the Center Party says no to ACER. After reading the Nordland Workers' Party's statement on energy and hydropower, I very much agreed with the intention of the statement, but very concerned about what the county party is really working for, since they never mentioned that the Workers' Party had to say no to ACER. The Nordland Workers' Party asked Stortinget to reserve Norway for a waiver of sovereignty, but they did not clearly say that the Workers' Party had to vote no to ACER when the case comes up in Stortinget. They also did not seem to believe that the matter should be dealt with under the Basic Law, § 115, whether a waiver of sovereignty, or deferred. Then they were really equidistant, and I think such ineffectiveness contributed to tying an almost majority of the Workers' Party's big group to landing errors in this matter. Sovereignty is given – so the Workers' Party does what they say they don't want, and the demands of the National Government are already broken. The list of requirements of the Workers' Party is broken and no one can guarantee this list in the future. And when the Workers' Party accepts these "copying machines" installed to circumvent sovereignty, they actually lead most of their voters – and the trade movement, which is now on layers with the Center Party – behind the light.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2731	The clean and cheap hydropower is the basis of modern Norway. For over 100 years, strict national governance and control have created an industrial venture that has given us well-being and a technological advantage in several fields. That's because our ancestors have fought for this right to rule. Today, the size should determine who will control Norwegian energy. Now, unfortunately, the majority in this Chamber seems to be in favour of giving away our national governing rights to the EU Energy Agency Acer. Norwegian energy resources must have Norwegian ownership and control. The power resources are our inheritance silver and a fundamental building block in the welfare state. Norwegian energy belongs to the Norwegian people, both now and in the future. By giving the EU more control over the regulation of our energy resources, we lose the right to self-determination, and we weaken our national competitive advantage. I have noticed the debate in the Labour Party. It seems that some people are trying to convince themselves that they are right, even if all the workers' party supporters say something else – a collective trade movement, cross-political decisions in power and industrial communities, cross-political decisions in ten power states, and over 100 rapporteurs who have said that they are against. The traditionally strong defender of hydropower now bends for a blue government and for the EU. They cling to some reservations on which they have entered into an agreement with the government. The first reservation already fell on Wednesday, when the Prime Minister confirmed that the concession treatment of the new foreign table will continue. The Council of State of Søviknes confirmed this today. Now the Workers' Party must admit what they have agreed with the government and dry to stand for it. Until recently, there has been a clear policy for the government to be responsible for the electricity grid, which includes power cables abroad. The problem is that the government, with the Workers' Party, has now opened up the construction of private foreign tables in its proposal. The company NorthConnect has already applied to build private cable between Norway and the United Kingdom. The Prime Minister himself recognized it in the Questionnaire on Wednesday. The process around NorthConnect is going to continue, regardless of the mentioned cooperation agreement between the government and the Workers' Party. The majority say we have to show solidarity with Europe. We're going to help solve their challenge, it's being said. It's going to be wrong. The industrial journey in Norway after the war and our prosperity is based on the values the hydropower has given. Oil revenues came later. When the oil's value decreases over time, our green energy becomes our advantage. I hope you can vote against ACER today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2749	Politics is a struggle of interest. Politics is a battle for value. Politics is to be a priority and to be clear on what kind of interests you're fighting for. The centre party fights for Norwegian workplaces. We put the interests of the industrial workers in Rana and Årdal ahead of the wishes of the leaders of the European Union. We're worried about everyone in Norway who can't afford higher power bills. This goes far ahead of those who dream of even stronger market governance of Europe. Norway is built on national control of natural resources, not least national control over the use and infrastructure of our energy. This has given Norwegian industry a vital competitive advantage. It is definitely in the EU’s interest to gain more power over the infrastructure of Norwegian energy. It is not in our interest that we allow the EU to regulate us into its system. Norway is one of the world's largest energy producers. As a seller, we often have fundamental interests other than the EU that buys. Norway is at risk of losing market access without any connection to the EU Energy Agency. Those arguments are not credible. Who thinks the EU should import more energy from if Norway is to be shut out of its market? Norwegian energy is essential for production and jobs in large parts of Europe. Less than one in 10 in Norway supports Norway transferring more power over important parts of Norwegian energy policy to the EU. The Norwegian people have voted no to the EU – twice. Economic and financial editor in Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung, Rainer Hank, concluded in Klasskampen on 31 December 2015 that the concept of popular sovereignty is one of the good inventions of the Enlightenment period. He states that popular sovereignty implies an important understanding: ‘Not only the elite, but also ordinary peoples are given power and self-determination in their state, where everyone can feel safe.’ Rainer Hank concludes by twisting an old trade union saying, ‘The national state is the strongest they have.’ By transferring sovereignty to the European Energy Agency, we are weakening the people's regime. We give people in Norway less maritime law and power. This is the Center Party strongly opposed. That is why we are voting against the transfer of sovereignty to the European Energy Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2762	In 2016, I had the pleasure of meeting the Prime Minister in Iceland. We discussed what had happened in Iceland after the financial crisis, and why they had managed to get up so fast compared to, for example, several of the countries of southern Europe. Then he raised some main reasons for it. One was, of course, that they have their own currency, their own heads. They had control of it and could use the currency when they were going to travel their economy. The second thing they lifted was energy policy, that they had control of energy and could use it to build industry, get to value in Iceland. It is so important that we learn from the Icelandic example. In Norway we have control of our own currency thanks to the fact that Erna Solberg has not achieved its goal. During the 2005–09 wholesale period, the right to adopt the euro in Norway. Erna Solberg wrote with a broad pen that it was the best argument for EU membership. It has proved to be a very bad argument, it has been very unwise. Now it's energy. Erna Solberg says that now we have to give up some of the power over our energy policy, because it is important for Norway – according to Solberg, it is a wise policy. It's just as wrong as her wish to introduce the euro. The EU aims to build an energy union with as much electricity as possible in Europe. Is that a good thing for Norway? Is that a good thing for our industry, or is it the opposite? We in the Center Party believe that it is the opposite, that it has been a good thing for Norway that we have used the energy developed in Norway to create long value chains in our country – to build industry along the coast, build industry and value creation across the country and have an electricity supply that makes you and I also have a low electricity price in the cold climate we have. It's a goal. There is no goal for the Norwegian magnification to give up power in such an important area. That is what we are doing today when the majority of the population wants to notify Norway and join the EU's third energy market package, that Acer should have decision-making power over Norwegian energy policy. There's no reason for us to do that. And then it's a very paradox that a general majority can decide that this sovereignty transfer is going to take place with just 50 pst. by the votes cast. In the Basic Law, it's very clear that if you want to have a transfer of sovereignty, you have to have a three-quarters majority. If you look at the composition here in the Storting, there's not a three-quarters majority for this transfer of sovereignty. If the representatives of the Labour Party are clearly opposed, it is not a real majority in accordance with the Basic Law to transfer power from the Stortinget, from the Norwegian administration, to the EU. That is why I believe it is a fundamental violation of the basic principles laid down by the Constitution. Therefore, the Right can no longer call itself Constitutional Conservatives; they are Constitutional Relativists.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2773	I think it's okay to get in between all of the Center Party posts here. But what's interesting is that the Center Party is talking about the Workers' Party all the time. It was actually a representative who only talked about the Workers' Party all the time. And if there was only truth in what you've said, it would have been brilliant. But I also think it may be important to refer to the Central Party policy, when we are in the situation we are in now. Sandra Borch said we renounce sovereignty today. Yeah, where does it say? When are we going to adopt that? What document does it contain, and what is the Central Party's wish to contribute to this matter? I haven't seen one proposal on what to deal with, you just say no, no impact assessment on a no result. I don't think that's fair enough. Then I want to remind you of Terje Riis-Johansen's brilliant 2008 posts, where he said: ‘What is happening in Europe affects Norway to a large extent. We have become increasingly integrated into the European energy market, and international framework conditions have become important for Norway. Within the EU, efforts are being made to develop a single European energy market. Norway supports this development.’ And then he goes on to say, ‘First of all, we shall ensure the energy needs of the Nordics with renewable energy. However, we should also not fail to take responsibility for helping Norway to play an important role in replacing fossil energy with renewable energy in our neighbouring countries.’ Furthermore, we can find the quote: it is positive that the EU is developing a common action plan to use energy as efficiently as possible. Norway sees the great importance of ACER. The Acer plan will stimulate energy efficiency. So it's Åslaug Haga who hits and says, ‘Although Norway is already in Europe on renewable energy, we have ambitious plans to expand the production of renewable energy in the form of, among other things, bioenergy, wind power, small-scale power and offshore wind. My ambition is that Norway will become a major exporter of clean and renewable energy.’ It's nice to be able to remember these plays, because it's quite clear that we have another Center Party here today, than what it was when this cooperation actually started. I want to refer to it again, because there are many who want to create a split in what both the Council of State and the Prime Minister have said in view of our agreement. What the Prime Minister confirmed on his Facebook page yesterday is correct, and it has also led to statements that there is joy in LO today. So they've actually been listened to, and they're happy that they've been taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2799	This is an interesting debate to follow. It is interesting to see that the advisers have been told to dig deep in their pockets to find quotes from former Centerparti state councils – nice to see you! We stand for them all in the hope! We're doing it, given, because no one in us disagrees with international cooperation, and no one disagrees with the fact that we're going to have a power exchange. We've always had that. And it's absolutely right that the Center Party was involved in facilitating a free market on the energy side in the 1990s. That's absolutely right. At the same time, we were very careful to distinguish those who were responsible for the infrastructure, i.e. the network, and those who were responsible for the production. That's exactly what you don't do if you now approve NorthConnect. Then you let the power producers get in from the power plant and all the way to the final market, all the way to the end user, and let them get control over the entire network. It's a whole new principle, it's never been a principle in Norwegian energy policy before. What we are talking about today is something completely new, because what we are talking about today is that we should give sovereignty to the European Union in the field of energy. Norway has never done so before. It seems like some speakers here think we shouldn't, but we have to. So the law department says that it's not very intrusive, so we can do it without a constitutional treatment. That's what they say because the Right Party and the Labour Party in Stortinget have developed a practice that doesn't interfere enough to make use of the Constitution. But they were supposed to use § 115 on this issue. Today it's not just about the power exchange we've been used to, but it's about a new big cable going over to England, which is almost an export cable. And it's about future cables and cable capacity and what it could mean. I could well quote Ola Borten Moe, I too, I could quote what he said about NorthConnect. I think that would have been striking for some of the people sitting in the hall here. I could also say something to the spokesman of the Progress Party, who was concerned with gas and gas exports: Yes, it is good that we export gas from Norway to the United Kingdom. It contributes to a significant reduction of CO 2 emissions there. What we're doing now is we're going to set up a new cable, which is going to compete with our own gas cable. We could discuss that problem a little bit if he was a FrP. But we actually have to assume that what we are doing today is that we are giving sovereignty to the European Union on the energy side. It's something completely new. We also have to assume that the Workers' Party has today left the decision on NorthConnect to the Right and the Advance Party, because the Right and Advance Party are not able today to say whether they will assess the concession requests until the two cables that we already have under construction are completed. I think the Workers' Party is gambling on that, and I think they're going to pay dearly for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2817	Today morning I woke up a little sweaty, and the sheet lay in a curl down by the bed. I realized that I had had a troubled sleep – the psychologists had probably called this rapid eye movement, REM sleep, before I woke up. Then I came to think about today's case, so it probably wasn't REM, but it was RME, the Energy Regulatory Authority, I had had on my brain during the night. This ghost of a construction under NVE should therefore be our contact with the EU on energy issues. It is not subject to popular control, and yet this body is to communicate with another ghost, namely ESA in Europe. You have to be pretty naive not to realize that this obvious crunch is made to avoid the requirement of a three-quarters majority in the Storting, because the matter thus does not concern the surrender of sovereignty to a supranational body of which we are not a member. The transfer of authority from Norway is therefore not to Acer but to the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA. There we are as a known member. But they just have to be a speaker for Acer. They shall receive drafts conforming to the wishes of ACER from them. For me, this just seems like a justice-based trickery. ESA also does not have resources for independent investigations. Now, what we're witnessing is a double copy of ACER's decision. First, they are copied in ESA, so in the Norwegian regulatory mechanism. In this field, there is enough No to EU law. They have called the Norwegian part a copy machine of 55 million. kr. So much is allocated to this body in the current year's budget, the 2018 budget. The EU requires the Norwegian regulatory authority to be fully independent, while ESA is highly dependent, namely on ACER and the EU system. From 2021, Norway shall submit annual energy plans to be approved by the Commission. The reason for all of this is that the EU needs to bypass the slow treatment procedures through the Council of Europe, the European Parliament and the European Commission. Therefore, new agencies are being set up for limited fields of action. They may adopt projects of common interest, as it stands. In the event of disagreement, Acer may decide who will pay for, for example: cables. If national authorities do not agree, Acer may take decisions on both operational security and network access. Can we really trust the Right in this case, which has worked for foreign ownership of Norwegian energy plants, since they have for years opposed the right to return?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2832	It is claimed with great pathos from some that connection to ACER is essential for the climate. If that were the case, I would have thought that climate was a central argument on the part of the government to give sovereignty and join the ACER. But after reading the proposition, which is on a whole of 211 pages, I find the word «climate change» twice, and the very central term «CO 2 emissions» is mentioned three times, as in the context of how power companies should report, not how to cut emissions. Had this been the climate package that some claim to be, the 211 pages would have been soaked by ‘climate’ and how ACER should help cut greenhouse gas emissions. In fact, climate considerations are more or less absent. It's not through ACER that we decide whether we're saving the planet's climate or not. It is through the international climate negotiations and the concrete emission reductions that each country contributes to. The arguments about the importance of Acer in the climate struggle are like the emperor's new clothes: they don't exist. But I understand that some people have to pay attention to it in order to sell it to their own party members. But also here it would have been okay with a little bit of soberness and truthfulness. I respond to the characteristics of some of us who disagree with ACER. I have to say, frankly, that the installation of the Greens' representative from the Greens' Greens' Party was rather late. It's said that we who say no to ACER are self-centered, we have an impotent environmental exposure, we build walls, we only have a nationalist environmental exposure, solidarity stops at borders, and we pull up the ladder after us. Perhaps the worst thing is that these characteristics affect one third of the members of the representative's national government. In my party, we would call such characteristics of our own party members unfriendliness. I also ask that those who believe that ACER is crucial to climate policy take note of what comrade Halleland of the Progress Party said in his speech, emphasising the importance of inclusion in the third energy market package of the EU for the export of Norwegian gas. It is by no means an environmental measure, but this is therefore the Greens' new allies in the climate struggle. Before characterizing your opponents and your own party members, you might want to take a look at your shoulder and look at who is your own ally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2846	Norway is rich in cheap and green energy. The country has benefited from secure and cheap electricity supply to households and from industrial establishments that have provided jobs in large parts of our long-term country. Using green energy in industrial production, we deliver environmentally friendly products to the world market. National governance of our energy resources has been the Center Party's battle cause long before Acer got on the table. A few years ago, we guaranteed the right of return of the hydropower resources, after someone tried to claim that it was in conflict with the EEA Agreement. Now, the question is, what are the consequences of entering the EU Energy Union? I hear Minister of Oil and Energy Søvikne's assurance that Norway will continue to govern Norwegian energy policy, even with a link to ACER. In fact, we give sovereignty to a supranational body. Professor Eivind Smith believes that the matter must be dealt with under the Constitution § 115, which requires a three-quarters majority. It was not taken into account. The government wants broad support, and does not take the chance of defeat. The Labour Party supports the accession of the EU Energy Union. They do so as traditional EU members and with traditional fear of going against something that could be negatively received in Brussels. The working party has put forward eight requirements to be met in order to support the government. There is nothing wrong with each of the requirements, but the Council of State has confirmed here today that he will in no way benefit from them being met. We've already seen how these kind of assumptions have gained little practical significance over time, and so I'm afraid it'll be this time as well. When Norway gives sovereignty to EU bodies, we have experience that there will be a trend that binds us to new changes that take place over time. We have lots of animal-purchased experience through the almost 25-year history of the EEA Agreement, which shows that the reservations we made, and national claims on the limitations of the agreement, were quickly made to shame. Our EEA partner Island seems to end up going against ACER. Both the Central Party and the Right’s sister party in Iceland consider the agreement to result in an unacceptable surrender of sovereignty over the energy sector. The Government and the Workers' Party would like to give the impression that ACER is a rather limited issue, largely related to cooperation on more efficient energy use in the EU. This is not a small and innocent matter. It shows the resistance of trade unions, energy-dependent industries and local politicians across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2863	The most important thing in this case is whether the majority of the Storting will give sovereignty to Brussels to ensure free flow of electricity between Norway and EU countries. The EU is working purposefully to create a political union and a single market, now also for electricity. Physical bottlenecks limiting the free flow of electricity between the EU and EEA countries shall be systematically removed on the basis of the common energy policy of which ACER is part. The consequences of this shall be as much as possible equal to the price of electricity, max. 2 øre price difference. Therefore, Norwegian electricity prices should not – and I do not emphasise – be a national advantage for residents and businesses in Norway. The centre party is working very well to ensure that electricity prices in Norway are an advantage to people in a country with a lot of darkness and cold. Furthermore, our business needs framework conditions with cheaper electricity compared to what's abroad. This is the basis for sound pay and working conditions, as we have in Norway. It is the Central Party's historical tradition that we are now continuing, and a large majority in the Landsorganisation supports this – I would say naturally. The EU's citizens, led by the Workers' Party and the Right, want to adapt their everyday life in Norway as much as possible to the situation of people living in the Europe of major powers. Goodbye to the Norwegian model. Difference Norway is replacing our Cohesion Norway. As the EU becomes more and more transnational, there will be an ever-increasing demand for a waiver of sovereignty from Stortinget to Brussels, including in the field of energy. The government cannot give insurance to the Workers' Party against this. If the government together with the Labour Party had tried to obtain insurance from the EU, the answer there would also have been no. Why? Indeed, it is maritimely because the EU — and thus the EEA — is dynamic, changing and increasingly transnational. The transfer of Norwegian sovereignty to Brussels, as is the case in this case, must, in the opinion of the Centre Party, take place under the Constitution § 115, i.e. by a majority of three-quarters. The recognized groundbreaking Eivind Smith and Eirik Holmøyvik support this position. However, the EU's workers' party and the Right are watering down on a case-by-case basis according to the understanding of the Constitution, because they see a great risk of not having their will on complying with the Constitution's requirements for a three-quarters majority. Connection to ACER will result in the EU taking power from the Storting over the use and/or construction of Norwegian electricity lines or power cables out of the country. Both the Prime Minister and the Council of State Søviknes say that the NorthConnect cable concession application between Norway and Scotland will be dealt with in accordance with current legislation. The question will now be whether this concession treatment will be postponed until after 2020 as a result of the agreement with the Workers' Party. It must be clarified in this debate by the Council of State of Søviks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2881	This week we have had plenty of opportunity to practice this by disagreeing with positions and perspectives and at the same time being able to give each other respectful publicity. I thank the representative Haltbrecken for the challenge of taking it on a tight arm. If the representative Haltbrecken had listened carefully, he would also have heard that he received the honor of having distanced part of No from the EU's most prestigious rhetoric. I would also like to express an understanding of the pain of the halt break by saying no to energy cooperation with Europe, while the rest of the environmental movement has taken the opposite position, and that the nature protection association, because of the internal pain, has chosen to be absent. I would also like to express sympathy and understanding with those in the MDG who feel that this debate is going in the wrong direction because nature considerations are not sufficiently protected. So the Haltbrecken MDG challenged that Acer is no climate action. So it's kind of right. If you read ACER's purpose paragraphs and rules carefully, there's not much about climate there. So you could say that, but it's only if you look at the problem of Acer, which is extremely technical. It's about code specifications, it's about methods of selling electricity from one region to another, and calculating these things. What is important is that ACER is a prerequisite for a 100 percent renewable energy system in Europe. It is where Europe wants to come, and Europe is on its way much faster than most other regions in the world. If we have a hundred percent renewable energy system with very much sun, very much wind, very many other variable forces, how should it be exchanged if it is not to happen by careful, advanced, technical balancing of the power from one place to another? The EU has the world’s most ambitious climate targets, energy efficiency targets and phase-out-of-renewable targets. If you don't have an organisation like Acer in place to create a dialogue environment, a cooperation around it, how in the world are you going to get a European power system that can be 100 percent renewable, not least when the battery comes in? Finally, I heard the representative Kaski say that SV does not say no to EU cooperation. What is said to be no is a trend with binding decisions from the EU to Norway. In this hall we have heard party by party that says they are for energy cooperation, but SV will only be involved in such group work if we can decide all the rules ourselves – if there is a group work that we don't get to dominate, no, then we don't want it anyway. This is bad solidarity in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2892	I notice that Iceland is part of the debate. That's interesting in itself. I think Norway is a much better example: we have our own currency, but we are also the most electrified country and society in the world. It's "electrically" how we now go ahead and are the world's leading test area. This applies to electric cars, green data centres, sea wind and large battery storage. We first separated network operation from power generation and established market regulation, and the Senter party admits that they were in the rush for it. In cooperation with the Nordic countries, we have been a priority region in Europe. It was a completely different centre party than what we hear here today. The important thing is to look at what's happening around us in the world now, because the cooperation we've had in the Nordic region over 25 years has led us far. It has given us capital, reasonable energy and security of supply. But when large parts of the rest of the world are going on to other energy carriers, there is a lot of research and development and rapid technological development, and if we don't keep up with the cooperation we've developed with the Nordic countries, some are going to go beyond us. Solar and wind technology is developing enormously rapidly, and if the capital forces in Asia and the United States are accelerating this development, we have no more than the 25-year leap that we already have, to meet that challenge. It's in this context that we need to talk about what investments we're going to make, what resources we have, and what we're going to meet with in the future. It's about researching more and cooperating more and not reverse, jumping off a cooperation and stopping the world: Help, I want off! If we were to say no today, the challenge is: should we then conclude agreements with Sweden, Denmark and Finland, which are part of the EU and which are raging abduction at that pace? We have to think ahead and use the opportunities we have to cooperate, and invest in what we've already invested in resources. The representative Arnstad was inside NorthConnect. It's not a theme today. We adopted it in the previous period. Today, we reverse the decision that others can have the opportunity. This is so-called private, but it's Agder Energy, Light and E-CO Energy, and it's public ownership in those actors. There is a problem linked to the possibility for actors to conclude bilateral agreements. That's really what we're going to reverse here today, that Statnett is going to follow the cables all the way out. It is, in fact, a harmonisation of legislation with other EU countries, as recommended by the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2903	It's nice that the Left can also help to reverse a little during this large-scale period. I will dwell a little on the promises and agreements that have been made in this matter. Among other things, the Workers' Party has promised to support the EU's third energy market package. This does not mean ‘that Norway automatically accepts future changes that could enter the EU energy field’. The fact that you should not give an automatic yes does not mean that you should say no, but it is not the most important thing. The most important thing is that this concerns a fundamental concern: that we have heard such formulations before. We have heard of the way in which the inclusion of new directives, propositions and legislation does not change Norwegian policy and society – and then we see the fundamental opposite: energy should not be part of the EEA. Professional rights should not be affected by the EEA. District policy measures would not be affected by the EEA. Repeated attempts to make promises and set limits on the development and scope of the EU decision-making authority have so far had no value. This helps to hide what one commits to, when we repeatedly see that it is the free flow that governs – and that is quite natural, because it is a foundation on which the European Union is founded. The problem is that when the free flow is now to be transferred also in the field of energy, the aim is to offset the national advantages — the advantage on which Norway builds large values. The key to success has been sensible and national balancing of different interests. It is now put at risk by a so-called conditional yes, and then it is left to the government, with Søviknes at the head, to bring this to the EU, because the agreement between the Workers' Party, the Government and the Environment Party The Greens do not change the fact that we are now putting part of the energy policy on the table of the European Union. A ‘formal declaration to the EU/EEA expressing our position’ shall be made in the Innst. 78 S for 2017-2018, which we are currently treating. What does that mean? What is it worth when, for example, do you know that there are already concrete proposals on changes to the way in which Acer should take decisions? It already modifies the scope of the decision-making and decision-making authority of ACER. Before we have dealt with the matter fully here today, the assumptions are already under change. The reason for the change on the part of the EU is that where a few countries could block decisions and prevent important progress, this will now be easier. That's right! The EU is finding ways to ensure free flow. This only underlines the fact that the EU is constantly evolving through ever-new decisions and new concrete decisions beyond our control. So the question to the Søviknes Council is: what is really a statement adopted by Norwegian parties worth when it is presented in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2919	Ownership and governance of natural resources Earth, forest water, fish, minerals, oil and gas are ours, are today and will be a political issue in the future. Different interests stand against each other. Local and national ownership, active industrial policies and good distribution policies are challenged by free flow policies and multi-national companies. There has not been a full agreement in the Storting neither on the design of our oil policy nor on the rebound system for hydropower. There is something about representatives who today want to take part in taking credit for a policy they have disagreed with. I feel that we are moving towards a process democracy that challenges both our rule of people and the relationship between us as elected representatives and those we represent. Of course, ACER is difficult to access and technical, but it's a piece in a big process that over time shifts power and control. The Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice has concluded that the transfer of governing rights is not an intervention, but it's going to be pretty strong to right-wing people saying from this pulpit that it's not about the transfer of governing rights, when the government's own documents state that that's what we're talking about. But the plurality goes beyond the rules of the Constitution. The Labour Party believes that the Right Party and the Advance Party have given guarantees, including: in the case of the extension of new power cables to the rest of the world. Here, the Council of State needs to help us and tell us what are the facts. I have been told that the Council of State is in agreement with itself, and the Prime Minister is in agreement with itself, but if the Prime Minister, the Council of State and the Labour Party are in agreement with each other, I have not been given an overview. There's still an open question. So I have to ask the Council of State to give a concrete answer to this: Should the concession management of NorthConnect's cable wait until after 2021, when the cables that are currently under construction will be finished, and we have the opportunity to sum up the experience of it? It is the question that has been asked – in different ways, by many representatives – throughout the debate all day. I repeat the question: Should the concession management wait until after 2021, or should it go further independently of this discussion and what has been said by the Labour Party people in this room today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2932	The public debate on the matter we are dealing with today has been so full of strawmen that there have been more of them set up in the change of words than there are on even the largest farms in the Midwest, or that are burned on an average Guy Fawkes Night in the British Isles. The case is initially not about foreign tables. Even those who argue against the case here and use the argument about power driving also say that they are for transfer capacity between Norway and other countries. But ACER has no authority over whether we build cables or not, or how much power we export or import. The matter is not about the price of electricity – Acer has no authority there. The matter is not about which power plants we are going to build – Acer has no authority there. The case is not about who owns the power plants – Acer has no authority there. The matter is not about the concession terms for power plants – we are the ones who put them – Acer has no authority there. The case is not about power driving, it is the concession terms that determine it. We're not going to put ACER on them. The matter is not how much electricity we are going to sell or buy – Acer has no authority there. It's not about what we use the power to, if it goes to the Norwegian power-intensive industry – Acer has no authority there. The matter is about the waiver of sovereignty, among other things. of a sovereignty that we really don't have. In reality, it is about what happens when two countries, at each end of a cable, disagree on the driving rules to be applied in the cable. Instead of having different driving rules in each half of the cable, investors can reach among others. in renewable energy and management on both sides be sure that common driving rules will apply. It is, in fact, important for future investments in new renewable energy. In fact, it is important that those who are going to invest in the sun, wind, waves and new renewable energy know that they can be sure that there are driving rules that apply all the way. The driving rules must also apply where, through the EEA Agreement, Norway has a self-interest in international, recognised driving rules. There we have a strong self-interest. We sell, and we buy power. Both parts depend on driving rules. We see that these vital national interests want someone to set aside. Well, it seems to me that the concern to create unrest around the EEA Agreement is more important than our national interests in this particular case. We're in a unique situation. Our hydropower gives us the opportunity to buy power when it's almost free, and sell it when it's expensive. But then we're dependent on driving rules because the power isn't necessarily sold through bilateral agreements to those who are at the end of each cable we're in and own. The receivers are not necessarily located where the cable comes up. We give up limited sovereignty because these driving rules are in our totally selfish self-interest. Randomly – and fortunately – it is also the best thing for the community. All agreements and partnerships involve a certain degree of sovereignty. By that I believe that when someone makes an agreement to sell something, it actually means that a giver from what you have sold. It is important that we do this in an orderly and regulated system, because we do not want to be a small contractual partner to fight against an entire EU community. In this case, with this connection, we become part of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2947	Party leader Trygve Slagsvold Vedum in the Central Party and other Central Party representatives have been very clear both in the debate over the last few weeks and in the debate here today: National control of power resources has served us well. I fully agree with that – it has served us well, and it will serve us well in the course. There has been a lot of talk in the political debate over the last few weeks that we politicians should not be afraid. I think that's exactly what the Center Party is doing when they looked at those degrees nerd up under the unwarranted fear that has risen out there related to what is actually the third energy market package and the Acer. When it comes to these opinions from the Central Party, too, from the Parliament's pulpit today, I believe that we need to challenge what is in the Third Energy Market Package and the Acer that can provide the basis for claiming, from the Parliament's Chair, that with this connection we are giving away Norwegian power resources or giving away from us the control and control of Norwegian power resources, or that the power price will increase as a result of Acer. I will challenge the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum or some of his party traps to respond to this and then not only in general terms, but be precise and point to where in the different parts of the third energy market package you find points of view to negate under these claims. Because they don't exist. When there is so much talk about the sovereignty and the giving of sovereignty to the representatives of the Central Party, you should at least be honest and say what AceR, ESA and RME, the Energy Regulatory Authority, has as their job, as well as giving advice and guidance. Well, it's to go in when there's disagreement between two countries related to cross-border infrastructure — a very limited authority. It has been used 11 times since the EU introduced the third energy market package. I am sure that some of my predecessors in the role of Minister of Energy from the Central Party, both Ola Borten Moe, Terje Riis-Johansen and Åslaug Haga, who have all been clear about Norway's relationship with the Nordic countries and the EU, are turning around in the chair today, and we have received many quotations in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2962	The Labour Party has mentioned my first article quite often – and I actually had more expectations that the Workers' Party would listen to the trade movement than expectations of the government. Otherwise, a lot of people today have been busy with the past, one quote after another is drawn forward. It's probably used considerably, and certainly green, energy from anyone who will vote for the Acer, to raise what Borten Moe, Haga, and Riis-Johansen have said. The representative of Marit Arnstad explained this well. I should rather take care of something that has been said today. Representative Terje Halleland of the Progress Party said that Norwegian politicians should control the green renewable energy, the hydropower. But how are the Norwegian politicians to control the green energy when ACER, ESA and RME, as the representative Arne Nävra explained as a nightmare, takes this job completely without the influence of the Norwegian authorities – we cannot correct this copier. Are these really future arguments for Norway to become a member of the EU? I know that EU membership has been, and is, an important goal for the right-wing government partner of the Advance Party and for part of the Workers' Party. But the people have spoken twice in this matter; we have said no. The horror propaganda of the largest EU trailers has not turned on. But let's keep looking forward, let the power adventure be Norwegian, let the industrial communities use the power where it is. It's green, it's efficient, it's forward-looking. For example: Mo in Rana they're in the front to turn into green energy and a green industry. The free flow of hydropower and the balancing of electricity prices in Norway with the rest of Europe are not the objectives of the Centre Party. If we even out the power prices, the energy is going to be more expensive in Norway. It is becoming more expensive in a cold country and it is becoming more lucrative to send energy out of Norway — instead of using it for jobs in districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2971	This case is not about beavers and estuaries, for which the Centre Party is concerned. It is about whether we should be involved in further developing energy cooperation in Europe, whether we should contribute to the green shift in Europe, and whether we should contribute to the joint European fulfilment of the climate commitments in the Paris Agreement. Over the decades, cooperation in the Nordic region and the Baltic region has worked well, and that is what the rest of Europe is now observing. This is in fact an EU adaptation to a Nordic cooperation model. Then the debate has shown that many are concerned. Are we giving up control over the heirloom, our energy policy and our hydropower resources? The answer is – as others have underlined – no. The Labour Party would never accept that we should give up national and social control over our hydropower resources, just as Germany and France would. Industry is concerned about the import of higher electricity prices. It has to be taken seriously. However, in case of increased exchange capacity, it can – can – lead to it. If we are to build more transfer cables abroad, we decide – no one else. We have now been hit even more strongly by the agreement that is the basis of today's decisions. So the concern is what the future can bring. What about the next package? Should it involve elements that undermine the principles that are established today, national control and public ownership, we will not be included. But someone is making this debate something other than what it's about. The centre party Ole André Myhrvold tells NTB that ‘The working party goes so far as to overrun its own grassroots in this matter in order to satisfy the EU’. No, this is not about satisfying the EU. But the centre party is stuck in what Lundtigen calls tough, namely the EU debate, in any case they can try to get it in. It is about safeguarding key Norwegian interests as an energy tower power in European cooperation. The EFTA Committee was this week in London. Yesterday, we met the Secretary of State of the British Department, or a very strong supporter of the United Kingdom's exit from the EU. On questions from us, she said that energy cooperation they want to continue to be in – if allowed – even after they have left the EU, even if it means that they have to submit to the European Court of Justice, which they would like to let go. The center party, which is so excited about brexit, should notice this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e2996	I've followed the debate from the sideline and I just have to point out some things. The centre party is definitely a green party that wants us, through multilateral cooperation, to work to achieve international climate goals and work for, among other things. purchases and sales of energy across national borders. What we do not support, on the other hand, is that power over energy should go from political control to being given to a supranational agency. In the vote and in the debate, these sides of the matter are set up against each other. We already have cooperation with EU countries. Being against ACER is also not against the EEA Agreement. Today's agreement and legislation will continue to apply even if we put down veto and don't let go into ACER. The concern of the centre party is linked to the sovereignty and control of energy, and we justify it, among other things. with the intention of the principle of freedom itself relating to the energy flow. The aim is for consumers to have a level playing field across countries. The problem is that different countries have different assumptions and different resource bases to supply energy to their citizens. Today, it is an important principle that consumer rights are politically defended by central government and elected representatives. If international interests are more important than national interests in terms of our power resources, we are on wild roads. Several representatives argue that this is not a waiver of sovereignty. I wonder when even lawyers are so divided in their view of it. So we might go into an energy union with countries that want to buy power, while it's necessarily in Norway's interest to sell and export. This in itself facilitates cooperation, export and development of cables without the need to join the ACER, which is to decide on legislation and dispute resolution. Statnet has warned against multiple cables following the ongoing projects to be completed in 2021. This signal we have to notice. In addition, operational and security of supply depends on the system. This year's winter has reminded us how vulnerable we are, and that our biggest supply challenges are national. It can be wondered whether the Right has become solid in terms of the Right Climate Account and whether the Workers' Party supports the interests of the power companies in business or whether it is the opposite. At least it's nice that the Workers' Party is so busy connecting to the United Kingdom, while they're so disconnected from the trade movement and their own grassroots.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3009	When you listen to the speakers from the majority and not least the representative Barth Eide, it can be heard that all the problems with the Acer connection are left after the negotiations with the government. Barth Eide claims that he has managed to limit the rights of the RME, but that cannot be arranged by negotiating with the government; it must be negotiated with the European Union power in Brussels to obtain legally binding assurances from there. It does not help to clarify anything here in Norway. If we want clarity, the reservation right in the EEA Agreement must be applied to what we want to avoid being exposed to. If we adopt an act, it is the European Commission and the European Court of Justice that determine how that act is to be understood. That's the way it is in the EU, and that's the way it is in the EEA. That's exactly why we in SV in total are against the EEA. It binds us, and it governs us in almost every area of society. The clarifications the Labour Party has called for and negotiated with the government can only be ensured by the majority of the Stortinget reserves against the legal acts that open up a legal state that affects what we want to secure. Such a reservation must concern at least the electricity market Directive 72/2009, the Acer Regulation 713/2009 and the Regulation on cross-border electricity trade 714/2009. In the 2016 winter package, the EU Commission proposes that ACER should be given a supranational decision-making authority and that decisions should be taken by a simple majority, not by a qualified majority. I want to challenge the representative Barth Eide and the majority to answer whether he or others in the Acer coalition don't see that Acer is one way in without a way out, and that it's not just to change whether or not evolution is going in a different direction than what they or we want. The EU has established around 40 agencies in recent years. They tend to be more and more subdued. In the EEA it is right that if the EU changes the text of an agreement or regulation, there should be new treatment, even nationally, but what they can do is change the interpretation of the text. It's happened several times. So they change practice. When things happen many times, we're going in a direction that we might not originally want. I hope the representative Barth Eide or others can answer my concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3024	The previous speaker was concerned with the relationship between dynamic agreement and fixed agreement. In fact, when you change the interpretation of a code that you have entered into, you have what is called a dynamic agreement. Norway is also doing so when, for example, amends regulations without necessarily amending the law based on changed assumptions. There is one thing that causes many in this case to have been concerned with the discussion of renunciation of sovereignty. The challenge of going back seems to be great, and many warn that it is also impossible. The rapporteur was concerned about two points in his introduction, namely that we are talking about independent regulatory authorities and independent complaints bodies. When the Halleland of the Advance Party then says that this is not a renunciation of sovereignty, connected to the word ‘independent’, one can start to fool, because independently must necessarily mean that this hall and the Norwegian people will no longer have anything to say after we have renounced it. The discussion about price and foreignables is hard to come from, because it really has nothing to do with the matter that we were really going to discuss, but it's dragged into the discussion of the Workers' Party. That future cables can lead to increased prices should not come as a surprise when that happens in the future. For example, NorthConnect writes. in its own concession request: we carried out estimates in the socio-economic analyses. We see an increase in the power price in the Norwegian market of between 0.7 and 1.7 øre per kWh in baseline scenarios. - Seven cents, President. That equals 640 million. kr in increased costs for the Norwegian power-intensive industry. I can guarantee that they will also notice in Mo in Rana, where the representative Gahr Støre was yesterday and spoke warmly for approval. While in his national meeting speech, he was very concerned about the fact that new foreign tables would not be built if it led to increased prices on the Norwegian market. That's why the Working Party has been busy dragging NorthConnect into this discussion. But it's amazing to hear both the Prime Minister's and the Minister of Oil and Energy's explanation of why NorthConnect's concession treatment should continue. Why should they continue if, as many from the Workers' Party claim, it is Statnet that is to own the future foreign tables? Then there is no intention to spend a lot of money on concession treatment. NorthConnect’s websites state that the concession treatment, i.e. the work they carry out, is supported by the EU. I think they'd be very interested to know if that's the way it's wasted money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3035	It was claimed by several representatives in this debate that this is a matter of solidarity – that becoming part of the Acer, giving sovereignty, is about being solidarity. I strongly disagree with that. If it is that to succeed in climate policy and it is believed that in order to achieve the 2 degree goal, it is a prerequisite that everyone must give a great deal of national sovereignty to some supranational bodies, I disagree with that strategy. I think it's unwise to get people with us into the incredibly important job that we have in front of us to actually achieve the climate goals. But that's also how ACER doesn't decide environmental policy. It's quite possible, as we've also seen from different parties here, to be both a driver and a sink in the climate work, regardless of the question of ACER. I believe that the various representatives, both the representatives of the Green Party, Stoknes, and the representative of Red, Moxnes, will do well to talk a little bit about the message from the environmental movement. The Green Party claims that the environmental movement is much too ACER, while from Red we hear that they are against, because cables and ACER are one side of the same thing. Well, with respect to reporting, I think the undersigned and the representative Haltbrecken have some knowledge of what the environmental movement thinks in this position, and that is that they have not taken a stand. For Acer is not about environmental policy; there are different views about cables. It's not like there's a majority for cables or for cables among the environmental movement. There are different views about it. And we have to respect that. But taking the different environmental organisations to income for their position when it comes to ACER, that's wrong, that's not right. Then I also think it would have been appropriate to have a little humility from the various representatives here who are speaking in favour of joining the Acer – a little humility towards the counter-arguments and concerns that come from people here in the Chamber, but also especially from people out there, because there are also concerns about other issues of energy policy. And we're going to need most people with us when we're going to succeed in the important energy policy issues in the future, when we're going to succeed in the climate fight. Then it is incredibly unwise to reject those concerns and say that it is entirely on earth or that it has nothing to do with this matter. Let's listen to them. Let's take those concerns seriously, so that we can take the important energy debates that are coming forward, in a better way than what we've done in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3044	Let me initially just get the responders to the last speaker's posts. I fully agree – we will face the concerns that are, with humility. We will be concerned to answer all the questions that are – related to this matter and other energy issues. We all have to earn that. It also demands that all contribute to an informed and evidence-based debate on these issues. There have been some questions — again — related to the NorthConnect concession treatment. That treatment is, as I have referred to earlier today, just started, and I would like to stress once again that the NorthConnect concession will be dealt with under the applicable law and the leadership of the bulk of the population here today. The leaders are again taken from the agreement concluded by the government parties with the Workers' Party and the Greens' Greens' Party. There's no ambiguity there. We agree on the starting point of the agreement, and I will follow it up in the further work both with foreign tables and with the implementation of, among other things. RME as our new regulatory authority for energy, separated from NVE. Let there be no doubt about it. I would also like to stress that the fear that some people have voiced about the further development of the EU energy market is once again unfounded because what we are considering today is the third energy market package and what is in that legislation. When it comes to the winter package, or the fourth energy market package if you want, there will be an entirely ordinary political process in which the Stortinget will again be invited to take any decisions needed by Parliament. Should there be things in the package that break with the premises that the five parties here have now agreed on, or break with premises like another big crowd – when we get so far – must have set up, then you have full opportunity to say no to the further journey. So the statement that we now, after this matter, will make to the EU, related to the posts that are now set down by these five parties, will be a clear signal of where the political environment in Norway and the Norwegian authorities is now standing as regards the further development of European energy market packages. This is a clear signal to the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3053	What the Council of State is doing now is very typical of almost any such debate about becoming a member or giving sovereignty the way we're going to do today. The impact is minimized before the decision is taken, and the future development will catch you. Because even though we're now going to have a fourth energy market package that we haven't decided on, we're now becoming members of the Acer, and when we know that one of the objectives of the fourth energy market package is just to increase the role of the Acer, give them more muscles, maybe contribute to more majority decisions and even more supranationality, it's clear that it gives cause for great concern. Statnet has e.g. in writing. - (PT) In the course of the consultation, the question of whether or not a Member State is willing to place part of its responsibility for security of supply outside its national control is a question of whether or not it is willing to do so. KS has said that they fear that several of these arrests will transfer power and authority to supranational authorities, and also pulverize responsibilities. But it is the usual recipe from the followers of this type of decision that they try to devalue it before the decision is taken. There are a lot of people here who have said that maybe the Center Party should have determined what would be the result of a no, and we've thought that the investigation guide should have been used to review the impact of these decisions on everyone. The sum of that is that we should have done as the LO management has asked us to do, that is to postpone this treatment until we have the full and complete overview of the consequences it will have, both one way and the other. But the Center Party records that this is where it's going to be rushed through. Then I must also reassure the Council of State that none of my former colleagues, energy ministers from the Central Party, are going to smile on an eye lid. I could have referred to what some of them would have said relating to NorthConnect and what it could lead to, and it wouldn't have seemed to have been so very pleasant. But the Council of State still does not answer the fundamental question that we have been asking him all day, and which is quite simple: is it that the concession treatment of NorthConnect is to be suspended after 2020-2021, and that we get a summary of the experience with the cables that are now under construction, before we take a position on NorthConnect? We do not know what is in the agreement between the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right, but we know what is in the National Government Decision of the Workers' Party. It says the following: ‘The experience with the two cables that are now being built is being reviewed before any new foreign connections can be assessed’. So if the Council of State can't give us an answer to that, we have to conclude that the Workers' Party here has waived its own mandatory national government decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3070	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3075	I take the floor because I assume that the debate is coming to an end and that we will soon reach a decision. As Chairman of the Committee, I would just like to say that I thank the Committee for its constructive work and a special greeting to the five parties that have now reached an agreement. It's not a normal alliance. It is probably the first time that the Green Party and the Progress Party in the United Kingdom have concluded an agreement. But there is a blue-green alliance – with the Working Party up in the boat. We're going to go on after this debate, and it follows something from this. The comments state the need to look at green industrial construction, not least in North Norway. I am a little surprised that there is so much discussion about foreign tables, but the transfer capacity in Norway, and especially from north to south, is very important. That means we don't get to move that much power from there to out. That's why it has to be built. We also have to look at conditional revisions in the watercourses. So here comes the follow-up that we all have in common interest of, and I also encourage to look forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3082	Now that the debate is coming to an end – and I think several of the representatives are happy about that – I will be allowed to thank you for a very good debate on very important issues. I think about all the arguments are used, if not by all the representatives. But I just want to answer some of the good questions that I got right now in the last part of the debate. I would first like to agree with Kari Elisabeth Kaski that it is important to listen. I think you have, and I believe we have. We have tried to listen very carefully to everyone who has shown concern for this, tried to sum up what they were concerned about, and took that concern with us into the negotiations. It was precisely the Labour Party approach. Therefore, I believe that once we have reached both good decisions, good comments and an agreement that is otherwise publicly available and published, we have accepted what people were most concerned about, and combined it with the value of continuing close cooperation. So Arne Nävra asked another good question: is it enough to change the regulatory authority for energy in Norway, or do we need to talk to the EU? No, this is the Energy Act – this is what we decide here in Stortinget. But what we have done, all the partners together, is to clarify that the smaller version, the more limited version, is fully compatible with what is required by EU legislation. Here, the Ministry's lawyers and many others have been in and confirmed. There is nothing we ask for – that is something we have clarified, and that is something we decide in Norwegian law. Finally, I would like to say that it is right, and Willfred Nordlund and others have rightly said, that new cables are not directly part of this debate, and that we have brought it in. Yes, it was not necessarily the Workers' Party that started, but it has become an important discussion about the consequences of both ACER and private cables. That's why we've actually been busy, and we've been fighting pretty hard for, to reverse a law change that happened a few years ago. Now it becomes an absolute monopoly for Statnet. It has also confirmed all the governmental parties and the Council of State, and one of the three requirements will be introduced when a decision is to be taken. That is what the Council of State has said, as the Prime Minister has said, there can be no more doubt: Statnett will have a monopoly. Consideration shall be given to socio-economic profitability and nature and experience shall be gained with existing and already adopted cables before such a decision is taken. I think it should now be emphatically clarified, and I believe that this debate has shown us where we are now. I look forward to making a final decision now, and I thank you again for the debate we have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3095	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3100	I'll see if I can do less. Which environmental organisations are for ACER? The people we've been in contact with are WWF, ZERO, Bellona, the Climate Foundation and Greenpeace. Which are neutrals? It is the Union of Nature and the Future in our hands. Which one is against? No one. All environmental organisations in the EU support cooperation on the phase-in of more sun, wind, etc. through cooperation on variable forces. If anyone can tell me about someone who is willing to accept it, I would like to take that information.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3107	A brief comment on Marit Arnstad’s notion of being caught by developments by joining the third energy market package here today: No – I have faith that any current government in Norway and any selected big business in Norway will take care of Norwegian interests and the interests of the Norwegian people when any new proposals come up from the EU and our EEA cooperation in this case. It will also apply in the field of energy, and I have faith that this house will take care of the interests that apply here. Finally, I will also be allowed to thank for the debate today and for the cooperation that has been with an overall committee on this matter. It has been demanding – it is technically demanding – also for many out there to follow up on the debate. But the final result that is now drawing will provide a good starting point for further cooperation on energy policy and cooperation within the EEA Agreement in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3114	I would also like to thank you very much for a good debate, which has been interesting to follow. I just need to sum up a little bit in the end. The rules we are considering today are an update of the 2003 rules, the rules we have implemented. The third package, which we are talking about today, does not imply radical changes for Norway. In fact, much of what is new in the package is already current practice in Norway. ACER is essentially a coordinating body, it is a cooperative body, and will be an important instrument. As I said in my first post, this package is clearly inspired by how Norway and the Nordic countries have been thinking about energy policy for a long, long time. It's not so strange that the rest of Europe is inspired by it. That's precisely because it works. Then I feel the need to repeat the very important thing that I know there have been concerns about out there, that the basic elements of Norwegian energy policy will be fixed. We still have sovereignty over the disposal of our unique energy resources and the design of our energy policy. It's important to remember. I think we have reached a good agreement and thank you again for a really good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3127	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3132	It is nice that the council would comment on my post, but it is all the more sad that he would not answer my question. Then I must be allowed to repeat the question that the Council of State will not answer: Is it such that the concession treatment of NorthConnect's cable will be suspended after 2020-2021, so that the experience of the cables that are now under construction can be summarised? It has now – I think – four or five central parties asked, and the Council of State has had the opportunity to respond. I find he's not answering. This probably means that he will not be able to ensure this, and that also means that the Workers' Party is in a direct breach of the mandatory requirements of its Governing Council decision, which reads: ‘The experience with the two cables that are now being built is being reviewed before any new foreign connections can be assessed’.» It has not been fulfilled by the Workers' Party, nor will the State Council answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3142	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3154	Before we start voting, the President will ask that the members of the Electoral Committee and alternate members remain in the Chamber after the end of the sitting. List of members and alternates shall be distributed among the representatives. Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3165	During the debate, Stein Erik Lauvås put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to promote an obligatory plan for the realisation of Beaivváš Sámi Nationaleater and Saemien Sijte as soon as possible.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3182	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3199	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose that the ceiling on total remuneration for national employees, including any supplements and pensions, should not be higher than the arrangements applicable to the Prime Minister at all times.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to update the government’s guidelines on remuneration and other remuneration for senior employees of government-owned enterprises and companies, so that one of the main principles of formation of wages and salaries is that directors’ salaries should not exceed the Prime Minister’s salary.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3230	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to sue the Storting for any changes to the guidelines on directors’ salaries and other types of remuneration for the employees of the State.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3247	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3255	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3267	Since it is obviously not everyone who has voted, we take the vote again. So the Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3285	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3302	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3319	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3398	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3426	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 6, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 7, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from Red: ‘The government is asked to hold an advisory referendum on Norway to join the EU Energy Agency Acer. The case is postponed pending the outcome of the referendum.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3458	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Grand Council asks the Presidency of the Grand Duchy to obtain an independent legal opinion on Norway’s link with the EU Energy Agency as proposed, as set out below. [[ACER]] [[2017-2018]] Prop. 4 S and Prop. [[2017-2018]] 6 L and the relationship with the Basic Law provisions relating to the transfer of sovereignty. The case is deferred pending the existence of such a suspicion.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government, on the basis of the Investigation Guide, to assess the impact of the introduction of the EU’s third energy market package. The case is suspended from further consideration pending the completion of such an investigation.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government requests the postponement of the third energy market package until the content of the fourth energy package is known and a thorough impact assessment has been carried out.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3483	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Supreme Court, in accordance with the Basic Law § 83, to draw up a legal opinion on Norway’s link with EU supervision and agencies, as well as the framework laid down by the Basic Law for the treatment of the Third Energy Market Package by the Storting and Norway’s accession to the EU Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators. The case is deferred pending the existence of such a finding.» The centre party and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3500	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Supreme Court to draw up a legal opinion on the practices developed in connection with Norway’s relationship with EU surveillance and agencies in the light of the provisions of the Basic Law on the waiver of sovereignty.’ Red has announced support for the proposal. The Central Party and the Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3517	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the legal acts contained in the third energy market package is dealt with by Stortinget under the Basic Law § 115.’; The Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3535	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e3551	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e4099	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e4111	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e4121	I could not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e4126	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e4132	Then we'll take the vote again. So it is the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party that have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e4144	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e4158	The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e4175	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e4502	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e4514	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e4527	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. The President will again remind the members of the Electoral Committee and alternates to remain in the Chamber after the end of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-22.ana.ud576e4555	Thus, today's map has been processed. The President will take the opportunity to wish everyone who works on the Stortinget a really good Easter. I would like to remind you that the first meeting after Easter is Wednesday 4 April, and that it might be a good idea to charge the batteries. There will be a hectic request in the last period of this session. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
