ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e103	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will put forward a proposal for a representative. - The representative is not present in the room. The representative, Mr Tuva Moflag, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e112	On behalf of the representatives of Ingvild Kjerkol, Tuva Moflag, Tellef Inge Mørland, Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen and Tore Hagebakken, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to investigate and prepare proposals for a legal basis so that municipalities who want to do so can try a mandatory call for MMR vaccination.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e117	The representative, Per Espen Stoknes, will submit a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e122	On behalf of the representatives Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen, Ingvild Kjerkol and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a better community offer for young people exposed to violence and abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e127	The representative, Ivar Odnes, will submit a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e132	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Mossleth, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Liv Signe Navarsete and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a more reasonable and better express bus service throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e137	The proposal will be managed in accordance with the rules of procedure. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform us that the Storting meeting today continues beyond noon. 16 until the map for today is finished. The first thing that is being handled here does not have a doctor outside of the regulatory time. 48 hours. Under Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget handle this matter nevertheless. – No objections have been raised to the proposal by the President, and that is to be seen as a decree.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e161	The President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Presidentship of the Stortinge. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no replication, and that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e170	The Presidency today puts forward a position on the regulation of the remuneration of the gross domestic product representatives, the members of the government and the Prime Minister. The suspension of the Wage and Wage Commission represents an annual wage increase in 2018 for the Storingsrepresentatives of 2.8 pst. This corresponds to the estimated annual wage growth in both the state, municipal and private sectors. For the members of the government and the Prime Minister, the suspension of the salary board implies an annual salary increase of 3.8 pst in 2018. The Presidency has noted that it is the Commission’s view that the remuneration of the government’s members should be adjusted over a period of time in order to be better aligned with the government’s management salaries. The Commission therefore proposes an additional 1 percentage point in addition to the year-to-year settlement review framework. The Wage Commission further points out that in recent years’ positions they have pointed out that there has developed over time a gap between wage developments of central government leadership groups on the one hand and grossing-up representatives, government members and prime minister on the other. This is also confirmed in statistics ordered by the Commission from the Statistical Central Agency in 2015. I would like to point out, on behalf of a united presidency, that this year's suspension from the payroll commission has resulted in a breach of established practice over the past 12 years, with equal percentage regulation of the remunerations of large-scale representatives, government members and prime minister. I would also like to point out that in recent years' positions there is a significant emphasis on the fact that the parties to the wage settlement in both the private and public sectors have taken account of the general economic situation in society and that the parties have generally carried out moderate wage settlements. The Presidency agrees with the assessment of the Wage and Occupational Pensions Commission that it is also natural this year to draw on the wage-earnings framework, which is 2.8 pst. Following an overall assessment, a single presidency has concluded that there is no reason to establish a new practice involving different percentage adjustments to the remuneration of large-scale representatives and government members. The Presidency therefore states that the remuneration for both depositors and government members is regulated in the same way as an annual salary increase in 2018, at 2.8 pst. On this basis, the recommendation of the Presidency is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e183	The granting of remuneration to wholesalers is not a tradition to discuss in this room. Last year, however, there was a debate as a result of SV's proposals and posts, and I am pleased about that. Over the last ten years, the remuneration of representatives has increased by over NOK 250 000. In comparison, the average wage and salary of industrial workers has increased by DK 130 000. Despite these striking figures, the Presidency is also proposing this year that we adjust the remuneration of representatives by 2.8 p.m., in line with the salary structure and in line with the recommendation of the Wage Commission. And it is in line with tradition that we follow this recommendation and avoid a political debate. But for the first time, the presidency has deviated from the principle of following the Commission's recommendation. The Commission has pointed out for several years that there has been a gap between wage developments of central government executives in the country on the one hand and large-scale representatives and government members on the other. The Commission considers that this should be corrected in the long term. Therefore, the Commission proposed for the first time a higher wage increase for the Prime Minister and the members of the Government. The Presidency rejects this proposal, arguing that growth should be equal to that of the Storing and of the Government. But the question of wage developments for heads of state versus the Prime Minister is, of course, left unanswered. If, instead of proposing two different percentages, the Wage Commission had proposed a larger wage jump for both the Wage and Government members in order to reinstate government leaders, would the presidency have agreed? It's strange that neither the payroll committee nor the presidency realizes that there may be the leadership wages in the state that have grown too much, and not the remuneration of the prime minister who has grown too little. It is now the case that the government’s management salaries, like other management salaries, have diverted from the salary to ordinary workers. This is also the background to the fact that the SV earlier in our proposal to introduce a ceiling, so that the total remuneration for employees in the country, including supplements and pensions, should not be higher than the remuneration that the Prime Minister receives at all times. Differences in Norway are increasing. The ones at the top are subtracting, while they at the bottom are hanging after. So the biggest answer to this can't be running after them with the highest pay when we determine our own remuneration. The average annual salary in Norway is SEK 531,000. On that average, of course, there are large differences — from a nurse’s minimum wage of DKK 385 000 — to the salary of the manager of Equinor, who made $15 million last year. kr. However, the fact is that the vast majority of those elected to the Grand Duchy experience an increase in their income when they sit in this room – not because they previously have short professional experience, little specialisation or little work experience, as the High Representative Michael Tetzschner has previously stated, but because most people in Norway do not earn NOK 900,000. That's a high salary. And even if we have to have a level of compensation that balances that we're going to recruit different people – including people who've made more than 1 million. kr, should become a politician – I think we must also recognise that the level itself can never be, or should be, a motivation factor to be elected to the Biggest. On this basis, SV suggests that we rather adjust our compensation in line with the same Croatian supplement that an average Norwegian pensioner receives, i.e. NOK 6 297 – in line with the social security bill of the year, a social security settlement that we, as there is reason to recall, have not discussed in this room, contrary to this case. SV then follows a principle that we have followed since 2007, where we adjust the compensation with a crown supplement instead of a percentage supplement. Here it uses to be a lot of people who fall off, because the presidency suggests the same percentage as in the ordinary payroll, that's the same thing that most people get. So let me remind you that 2.8 pst. Of 928 602, what we do is essentially more than 2.8 pst. of the average industrial worker’s salary, which is NOK 463,800. And to put it simply, milk and kindergarten don't cost percent; it costs dollars and cents. And it's milk and kindergarten that counts in real life. When the presidency first departs from the Commission's proposal, they should also be willing to defend and, where appropriate, to deviate from the Commission's proposal on what big business representatives will get, which is, therefore, NOK 28 000 more than last year. With this I address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e202	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e207	The Greens agree that our most important elected representatives will have a good salary. But when the pay is about to pass the million, it's time to think a little bit. It is a good Norwegian word that we in the Greens believe that rich countries with which Norway has to become more comfortable, and that is the word 'not at all'. When is that enough? When do we have enough? And who's going to go ahead in reflecting on what's enough? If not us here, is there anyone else to reflect on it? Is someone going to do it another time? Because as long as the pay rises in percentage terms, it's growing further away from the pay average. As the representative Kaski pointed out, when one rains 2.8 pst. Of 930 000 kroner, it's going to be twice as much as when you calculate an increase of 2.8 pst. from NOK 465 000 – twice as much in addition to grossing-up representatives as to those with a medium salary, NOK 28 000 versus NOK 13 000. It doesn't go into people's eyes anymore when the distance has already become so big. Furthermore, Stortinget has had some very much-described budget exceedances. Various parties have been responsible for the presidency, so many have to share the responsibility for this, and it will take a long time to cover up these exceedances. But we can, in this period, contribute to it by freezing our wages over the next three years. We can say loud and clear that we have enough now, that we will contribute to the detection of the exceedances. That is why the Green Party is proposing that we freeze the gross wages and salaries of the members of the government for the next three years. Then we can use the time to reflect on the word 'not at all', and I'm therefore addressing the loose proposal we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e218	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e223	It's a few bad things to decide on their own salary and their own privileges and could send the bill for it to the community. But that's what we're doing at Stortinget in practice today. We decide for ourselves what we're going to get into the account, and what this is going to cost the Norwegian population. Today, there are several proposals on the table on how much our wages are going to grow this year, from proposals for a little growth to proposals for more growth. What we need is a debate on the level of pay. Red proposes to cut the salary, both for us at Stortinget, for the members of the government and for the Prime Minister. Over the current period, it's estimated that our pay is going to go 1 million. kr. It's almost twice the average salary in Norway, at a time when most people's wages have been quiet and even falling. So there has been a falling real wage growth for ordinary people, while the Storting continues to give itself annual bonuses. It is completely wrong to go into a society where the differences increase every year, also because of decisions taken in this room. The majority of the population have cut the pensions of the elderly, taken the child supplement from the disabled and taken the holiday money from the unemployed. When they have the stomach for it, they should also have the stomach to cut in their own remuneration – not least before the pay passes 1 million. kr, and not least for a year with a building scandal that is our common responsibility, which costs over 1 billion. kr extra for the inhabitants, and so where several parties stood up and said that now at Stortinget we had to tighten on the life belt in order not to send the entire bill for this scandal to most people. That was the tone at the end of February. Today we stand here and have the chance to let action follow words and tighten our own wages to take some of the bill for this scandal, for which we must jointly bear the political responsibility. The parties that are in favour of wage increases should take the floor in the debate today and stand up with their backs and defend that we will get over 1 million. kr i wages and salaries in the current period. It's a little strange that it's just the Green, SV and Red that take the floor. Where is the Progress Party – for people most, but for millions of wages for politicians? Where is the Workers' Party? Where's the Center Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right? These parties should go to the pulpit and justify to the Norwegian people why it is right that the elected representatives should have more than twice the number of people most served in Norway, in a year with this building scandal, which is our shared responsibility. Red's suggestion is to set the gross salary to 8 G, i.e. approx. 775 000 kroner a year. That's a pretty good salary. It's more than a quarter of a million kroner above average pay in Norway, and it's quite reasonable and correct, we think, to compensate for the fact that big business representatives work a lot, that it's uncomfortable working hours, and that there's a lot of time away from the family. Most people understand that it has to be compensated. But that we're going to be part of the payroll in society, I don't think most people have a particular understanding of. We will also propose to wind up the payroll commission, which has become a disclaimer commission, and which is therefore in order to increase the salary further, because some leaders of the state's companies have enormously good wages. It shows one thing: that the payroll commission is completely missing a compass, and that the Storting should do what is real, namely treat and adopt its own salary without hiding behind this payroll commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e238	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e245	In my half a year on Stortinget, in every case I've been on, I've seen that it's drawn speakers from all the parties right away, and we're getting far down on the list. But where the representative Moxnes and I are sitting – at the very back – it was kind of funny and funny and funny today to see that there were only three parties who had signed up for the debate. So a little bit like Knoll and Toft behind there we couldn't help but point out to each other that it was certain our debate today. So I just want to repeat the representative Moxnes' call to the other parties to come on and give a good reason for that 2.8 pst. is a true wage increase and why it represents the optimal level of future grossing-up representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e252	The President will point out that most of these so-called second parties are also represented in the presidency, which stands for this setting, so that it is only mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e258	Then it's a narrow matter for the other parties to stand up and defend the position, which they themselves have been behind in the presidency. It should be easy for the vast majority of experienced, experienced politicians who have the floor in their power. I will give some commendation to the presidency at one point, because it is important to do so, namely, that you have wisely – and for the first time – disregarded the Commission's recommendation at one point, as the President-in-Office explained in his statement. That is good, and there is also reason to trust that the presidency on its own in the future – and without the payroll commission as a sort of sandfighting agency – can come up with a proposal to the Stortinge on what to pay for depositors and government members for the coming year. Perhaps then we get suggestions that assume that we look to the pay levels of most people, and do not compare ourselves to what, in our view, are overpaid leaders in the state and in the private business. Then I would like to state that we are making a small adjustment to one of our proposals, namely proposal No. 4, which was submitted as follows: ‘The President asks the Presidency to wind up the Wage Commission’. We're going to change that to "The size will liquidate the Wage Commission" so it's going to be formally correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e267	Then that change is registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e272	There have been good contributions in this matter so far, but I am, like the others, keen to hear in particular what the representatives of the Progress Party believe that big business politicians are going to grant themselves such a huge wage increase this year, also in view of the fact that this is not the only case the Stortinget is discussing today where the majority is going in to grant themselves the privileges that ordinary people in this country do not have. I also see that there are representatives from the Progress Party present in the Chamber who have the full opportunity to take the floor and defend this increase in wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e277	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President will state that the next matter of handling does not have a doctor beyond the regular time, i.e. 48 hours. Under Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget handle this matter nevertheless. – No objections have been raised to the proposal by the President, and that is to be seen as a decree.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e297	The President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Presidentship of the Stortinge. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no replication, and that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e306	On 20 June last year, the European Parliament decided to ask the Presidency to draw up draft terms of reference, the name and composition of a Commission to investigate research policies and injustices against co-workers and women in Norway. The background was a proposal from the representatives of the Grand Duchy of Kirsti Bergstø and Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, who were discussed in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, who took a position on the matter. This matter is important to many. It is important for women, Norwegian Finns and Samer. Many of them have long wanted a review of the type we are now starting. It is also important for Norwegian society as a whole, because we are now going to have a thorough review of a problematic past and get suggestions on how to move forward together in a better understanding of this past. The mandate, name and composition of the Commission proposed in the presidency’s suspension is the result of a thorough process. During the work, there has been close dialogue with women’s and Norwegian Finnish organisations and with the Sametinget. The Presidency has had several meetings with them and has received recordings and statements both before the mandate was written and received comments on draft terms of reference in the process. The task of the Commission is three-thirds. Firstly, it shall carry out a historical survey to describe the policies and activities of the Norwegian authorities towards Samer, women and Norwegian fins. Secondly, the Commission will examine the repercussions of research policy today. Thirdly, the Commission shall submit proposals for measures which may create greater equivalence between the majority and minority populations. It will include assessing existing measures for reconciliation. This is a comprehensive task that will require much of the Commission. The guiding principle for the composition of the Commission has been that it should be composed of qualified professionals from relevant disciplines, such as law, history, language and cultural knowledge. The merger and the women's and Norwegian Finnish organisations were asked to propose members to the Commission, and nine of the Commission's twelve members were elected from among these proposals. However, the members of the Commission represent only themselves and their competence and are not representatives of any of the parties concerned. The Presidency believes that the Commission now available is very strong. It has been important for the presidency to have a Commission leader who has both the broad trust and the experience and the weight needed to ensure good progress in the work. The Presidency is therefore pleased that Dagfinn Højbräten has agreed to join the Commission as its leader. The Presidency proposes that the name of the Commission become ‘the Commission for the examination of research policies and injustices towards Samer, Women and Norwegian Finns’ and that it be given the short name ‘truth and reconciliation commission’. The Presidency is aware that objections to the concept of ‘truth’ may be raised in the name of a public commission. Nevertheless, the presidency believes it should weigh heavily that there is strong support for such a name among the majority of the environments concerned and that the Truth and Reconciliation Commission has already stuck as an unofficial name in many places. As regards the timetable for work, the Presidency has stressed the importance of giving the Commission time to build trust and carry out the task in a thorough and qualitative manner. The Presidency therefore proposes that the Commission be given a deadline of 1 September 2022 to complete its work and submit its report. This means that the Commission will not be able to complete its work during the current ageing period. Although that might be desirable, the presidency's view is that the quality of work must be taken into account more seriously. There are high expectations of the outcome of the Commission's work. The Presidency considers that the proposed mandate and the composition of the Commission provide a good basis for the important task ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e327	First, I would like to thank Eva Kristin Hansen for his presentation. When the proposal to appoint a commission came up in public, I must admit that as a finnmarking I was actually a little skeptical. I was afraid that it would be a cultivation of past injustice, focusing backwards and not focusing on looking forward, for the benefit of those people this is about. But the wish of the Commission was there. That's what the Storting is doing now, and then we have to make sure that what is to be processed is processed in such a way – and with a view to moving on. For me, one of the things this Commission should look at is the concept of identity. I'll take my own state as an example. Finnmark was multicultural long before the word was found. There lived the Northmen, the Samear, the Women, the Finns, the People with Russian Anthem – at all a North Calote. And we've mixed up. We're a mixed-up. We speak Norwegian, Sami, female or Finnish, but in Finnmark we still have a common identity: Finnmarking. This identity has been purchased from animals. It hasn't come of itself. It was created by outsiders, by not being Norwegian enough, by not being Norwegian well enough, by being the furthest away from power and, unfortunately, also by a dose of self-esteem. Nevertheless, we have overcome it. We've learned to accept ourselves, to be proud of our part of the country, the beautiful, wild, resource-rich north, where nature has been a raging horn, with fish, game and berries – and, not least, enough for everyone. In the earth there are minerals, in the sea fish, and under the sea there is oil and gas – just to mention something. North is a resource-rich region. We who live there have gradually reconciled ourselves. We are as we are. We Finnmarks have a strong and diverse common identity. It's the one that keeps us together. It was twinging with this identity that made that 87 pst. of us said no to merging with Troms when we had a referendum. The resistance has deep historical roots. It has not understood the scarce majority who decided to coerce Troms and Finnmark. It is perceived as a continuation of past injustices against the population. I hope the Commission fulfills its intentions, and that the work can be used for increased self-respect in the north and increased respect for the north in the south. I want to say that we, representing the North, join the composition of the Commission. It's good and wide. I also want to give them advice on the way: involve people! Then we can get a good result from this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e342	First, I want to support what Mr. Hansen said about the presidency. It is a united presidency, and we are pleased that we have received proposals for mandates and candidates for the Commission in place. It is important from the centre that we now be able to address this, that we have a thorough review, so that one can look at the challenges that lie here – and not least the feelings that lie in these people. There is no doubt that there are powerful forces that many feel they have not got. The work on the mandate has been interesting. Meetings with representatives of the Federation of Norwegian Women, the Federation of Women and the Norwegian-Finnish Association show that there is also a very different starting point for what they see happening that this work is going to bring about. It is important for all groups to be heard and to present their views and stories. Seamsams, lulesams and southern samsams are examples of minorities who also need to be involved in the Commission’s work. That he has been given the deadline until 2022, I think I should give time to everyone to be heard, that one can have time to talk to people, that even those who have stories that are not so easy to get along, are not so easy to move forward – which they may have tried to push and hide – can be a few. I believe that within this time frame the Commission should have a good opportunity to do a good job and be done by the deadline. The goal of the work must be more numerous. It's important to get knowledge, that everyone feels their point of view. But I also hope that we can get the diverse culture that's up there, that the rest of the country can become more aware of how much they have to give us, how exciting history is, and how one can make history lift us forward, teach us to become more tolerant and see the value of the lack. Then I see that individual organisations are not quite happy with the Commission and the composition, but I want to say that I feel that everyone has come along with their proposals. I think we've reached a good compromise, where we have a group that can do a good job, if we put the framework for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e355	First, I want to say that I'm very satisfied that a long process has come to an end for this time. He started with a representative proposal from SV, and I want to say that Stortinget has accepted the proposal in a very wise and good way – I will almost dare to say exemplary way – throughout the whole process. The work of the presidency in the run-up to the case, with a great deal of involvement of the women, Norwegian-Finnish and Sami environments through a longer process, is very good and set the standard for how the Commission's work will proceed. I want to say that here the presidency has made a difference from work. I would like to make a few comments about what we are about to do. These are deep questions for the state of Norway, in many ways, and in some ways a given with a story we've had, which we want to solve as best we can through this Commission work, and point out a clear direction for how we can get to a better place later. In many ways there is a recognition that this has been a problematic area, and that the search is not just something that has been left over and that we don't need to look at now, but is something that we need to take a larger historical statement with. There is a tendency for Norway that we often have problems seeing the whole country, that is, that the state perspective is often emanating from what you can see from the capital, while one is too little good to take on all the other sides that this country has, including the Sami and the female environment, which do not have its centre of gravity in the capital. Then we've also had a tendency, as a state, to push the problems from the past under the carpet. I mean this case is one example of now taking a given with a past in an explicit and clear way, which I also think should point out the direction for the future of how the Storting should approach new problem settings, which hopefully should not arise, but may arise in the future. Errors in our past are going to include a specifier. When it comes to research, it has probably not been a central state ideology, but a thought we have seen in different areas of society, which has been giving off in different geographical areas for a long time. The research can still see the effects of today. So there's an image with many facets that the Commission is going to go into, where you need to draw up a larger historical landscape, but also point to the different geographical effects of the whole of your research and how that effect turns out today. I'm very glad that one went away from this being some kind of fast-working commission, that the presidency saw that this work needs time if it's going to be real, and that one dares to look beyond this great period of time. My fear was that if one had a very short process, it would become problematic in itself, one would not be able to do much more than some initial studies. Thus, a few half-way processes would make the entire project harder to resume. So I would say that the mandate has been very good: three-thirds, with historical input, a look at the impact. The effect is not timed, one looks as far back as possible, but also into our time, if necessary, and what I think is very important. The hard question is: What is the future, when you get that far? Of course, it's always hard when you're going to come up with the composition of such a commission. There must be a mix of the different groups, some from the big community there, etc. From Southern Sam, it has been pointed out that no one with southern Sami background is there. One has competence in the southern Sami there, but one doesn't have the southern Sami dimension in it. Probably several other groups will point to the same thing. I think it is very important that the Commission uses the possibility for reference groups actively. Finally, I would like to add that the Nordic dimension is very important, and I ask the Commission to address the work carried out in both Finland and Sweden as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e372	When I grew up in the 1970s and 1980s, I never learned to respect the Sami culture, the Sami indigenous people. I understood that oppression of indigenous peoples was something that happened elsewhere, in America, Africa, the Amazon -- not here. In fact, it was only through my work with co-workers and in my role as a teacher and psychotherapist for people with samian descent that I got a deep insight into and could feel what damage and sensitivities we, the Norwegian people, have inflicted upon the Sami people through the last generations. I'm not sure how many in my network in South Norway who have really taken into this part of our history, so to me it was a powerful awakening to be close to this injustice, the strong feelings resulting from structural violence against indigenous peoples for generations here with us. That is why the Green Party welcomes the implementation of this Commission. We also have great expectations for the Commission's work and consider this to be the beginning of a work that, hopefully, will change prejudices and attitudes of a negative nature towards co-workers, women and Norwegian Finns. In its work, the Commission will address many important areas which together have been part of the research and will work on the consequences that it has had for generations of people in our country. We are also pleased that it takes more time, up to four years, and notes that the Sametinget and the Conseil have no objections to the composition. The mandate also looks good, but we must take the opportunity to underline the following from the mandate: ‘The Commission shall, first and foremost, identify the impact of research policy on the possibility for Samers and Women’s/Women’s/Women’s/Women’s Finns to use and practice their own language, culture and traditional ways of feeding.’.» Our point is that research policy continues — to date — and concerns interventions in the traditional food chain of the community, reindustry. The natural management of Sápmi continues to be sought, but this theme will now be up to the Commission itself to decide to deal with. When we vote in favour of this proposal today, we hope that it will be a greater part of the Commission's work. The public opinion has also had implications for traditional Sami areas during the period of public policy research. So the Commission has to make sure that the natural management of Sápmi is taken up as part of the research. The government has lamented the search of the school. That's good. But the search for nature management continues. On the Fosen in Trøndelag there is now a struggle to preserve reindeer pastures that disappear due to the expansion of Europe’s largest wind farm. Together, this constitutes a breach of the ILO Convention, since reindeer farming in these areas acts as a cultural carrier, embedded in the landscape as part of Norway, where the Sami areas are marginal culturally. This is a violation of more: Norway has also ratified the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights, Article 27, which reads as follows: ‘In the countries where ethnic, religious or linguistic minorities exist, those belonging to such minorities shall not be denied the right, together with other members of their group, to cultivate their own culture, to profess and practice their own religion, or to use their own language.’;» This is further implemented in Section 108 of our Constitution, the so-called joint paragraph. But both of these conventions and paragraphs are being violated today, both by the government and the judiciary, so for example. the development of Storheia on Fosen is ongoing with full and non-reparable strength while the case has not yet been settled in court. So we expect the Commission not only to bury itself in old injustices against the Sami people, but also to look at today's injustice. The Green Party therefore expects the Commission's work to contribute to the end of such situations. This means that Article 27 of the United Nations is taken seriously and not just used as a rhetorical circular before being overcome by the economic interests of the big society. Then we will no longer experience more Fosen cases in the future – so thank you to proposers and presidency for good work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e397	The centre party is pleased and proud that we have this case on the table. The starting point is the recognition that there has been a major injustice and even an assault on the Sami and female population during the hard-nosed period. A Commission shall now be set up to document the history and to try to explain the current situation in the light of this. We almost succeeded in eradicating their culture. The people have suffered – pain, shame, despair and sorrow. There are deep wounds that so far have begun to grow. History is dark when we look back at it. Much in history is still hidden, and discrimination and oppression took place on so many levels. The experience from other countries that have done this shows the need to use good time and set aside enough resources. Experience shows that there will be a lot of progress during the process, and it is important to have an appliance ready to meet this. There's an old tab from 1919 south of the Women's Association in lower Tana. The tab includes the following text: «Mother's heart bleeds when her child does not want to be recognized by her» – a simple sentence that is so deeply sad, while at the same time showing how precious language and culture are. This tab shows the history of research in a few words. Everyone in Norway should know and learn about this story. And we're not just going to mess up all the broken and apologize, the goal is to correct the wrong that's been committed, and to strengthen the Sami and female communities. The truth shall bring the understanding and support necessary for their development. Their culture shall be alive and young people shall represent the Sami and female communities with pride. Then we start talking about reconciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e410	There is no doubt that Norway has been pursuing an active research policy over many years. History has shown us that many are subjected to some gross abuse. The impact of the policy and all the years it is in operation is not yet known, and there is certainly some of the Commission's work to be done. At the same time, it has been a difficult matter for many. Also, many of those who have felt the search policy on the body have been in doubt and doubted whether it was right to put down a commission. Many old wounds are being opened up, many debates that many have run away will emerge. That is why it is incredibly important, I believe, to have the widest possible mandate for the job to be done, to have the widest possible competence in the individual Commissioner, but also overall. It is important to have a survey, to examine the impact of research policy today. It is important, as is the case here, to propose measures for further reconciliation. There is no doubt that the Commission will meet with sky-high expectations. Many of those expectations are likely to be difficult to meet, because there are many who have personal experiences, personal expectations, different expectations. I think the most important thing is that you are available to listen, that you play in the Sami, the Norwegian-Finnish and the female environments and organisations. I think the worst thing we can get out of this is if someone, when the job is done, is left with the impression that their story wasn't listened to enough. There can't be any fascist about what's right and wrong, when it's people's personal experience. Many may have felt this as groups, but many have also felt it on the body privately, as individuals. I think the Commission is meeting with sky-high expectations, but I think that composition and that mandate gives it a good starting point for doing a good job, so I'm looking forward to it coming together and getting its job started.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e423	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e439	The President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Presidentship of the Stortinge. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no replication, and that those who draw on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e448	Tomorrow, the Stortinget will decide on an increased cost framework for the Stortinget building project The Prince's Gate 26 etc. Today, we are going to decide on proposals that can help to improve the implementation of future construction projects and better anchor decisions in the future. The previous presidency decided last June to set up a working group to recommend changes in the light of the criticisms of the National Audit Office. The working group has put forward a number of proposals, and the Presidency will highlight in particular the recommendation that state buildings can and should act as builders for future construction projects. The Presidency submits to a two-stage discussion of the proposals in the Stortinget. Today, we are presenting proposals for amendments to the Storting Rules of Procedure, which will contribute to a clearer formalisation of roles and responsibilities in Stortinget. In addition, we explain how further work is done on other proposals from the working group. In the setting, we propose, among other things, its own provisions in the Rules of Procedure of the Storting concerning the responsibilities of the Presidency and the Director in administrative matters and the formalisation of informal practices that have been followed in consulting the party groups in particularly important administrative matters. As regards the formalisation of the consultation procedure, the Presidency is divided into its proposal for a new provision. The majority of the Presidency, all with the exception of the member Nils T. Bjørke, proposes that the Presidency should consult the party groups on particularly important administrative matters, but without establishing a new body. The majority have stressed that this solution provides flexibility for both the presidency and the party groups in terms of procedure. We also believe that it would be unnecessary to create a completely new body for such matters. In the media, the proposals are linked to the formalisation of roles, as if the presidency were cutting itself off. In my opinion, this is a misrepresentation. The Presidency still has the overall responsibility for administrative matters in Stortinget, and what we are doing now is clarifying the power structure of Stortinget in its Rules of Procedure. In the autumn, the Presidency will present proposals for a new regulation for the handling of construction and rental matters by the Grand Duchy. Here we will, among other things: address issues related to the use of State Building and how the size of the plenary session is involved in construction matters. This recommends the recommendation of the Presidency. So I guess the presidency member Nils T. Bjørke will present the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e465	The setting contains important measures to improve the management of large-scale projects in Stortinget in the future. At all points, with one important exception, I join the presidency. Although it would be useful to have a unified position, the Centre believes that the proposal of the Working Party to create a formal body for consultation, composed of the Presidency and the leaders of the party groups – the Administrative Committee, which is to discuss particularly important administrative matters before a decision is taken in the Presidency – is a proposal that provides a clear and firm framework for the conduct of consultations between the Presidency and the party groups, by giving all parties participation in a joint meeting room, equal information and equal opportunity to make representations and objections. If the leaders of the party groups themselves are unable to meet, the next leaders can set them. The proposal also implies that if a minority of one third of the members so require, a case shall be brought before the Stortinget. We think that a fixed administration selection is a better solution to work when there are demanding things where there are cracking points to deal with. It does not need to be a fixed meeting, but may be called if needed. In the Center Party we are concerned that we should not build unnecessary bureaucracy, but I believe it is important that we have arrangements that are offered even in difficult matters. I would advise the Stortinget to adopt a new Section 9a second paragraph, which is in line with the proposal of the working group. With this, I will deal with the suggestions made by the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e474	The representative of Nils T. Bjørke has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e479	I will briefly take the floor for an explanation of vote by Mr SV, which is not in the presidency during this period. Overall, we support the work currently being done, both working for increased transparency and for better anchoring of administrative matters in plenary. We are also concerned, as the President also stresses, that it is the presidency that has the overall responsibility. That is why we are not going to vote in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party to formalise such an administrative sample. We think it's going to go against the intention we have now, to clarify responsibilities and decision-making structures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e486	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e502	The President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Presidentship of the Stortinge. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no replication, and that those who draw on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e511	With this in mind, the Presidency is presenting its position on the proposal for a representative of the depositors Arne Nävra, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Solveig Schaugvoll Foss and Lars Haltbrecken to introduce payment parking in the garage. An overall presidency recommends that the draft representative should not be adopted. The Presidency supports the proposal's intention to improve the urban environment in Oslo, but considers that the introduction of payment in the garage is not a proper instrument, either to achieve this or to make the working day of the guttering representatives as flexible and efficient as possible. The size is not an ordinary job, and being a wholesaler is Norway’s leading trustee. The representatives of Storting are elected from all the counties of the country, and it should therefore be organised in order to ensure that the representatives of Storing who are not resident in Oslo can easily get to and from Stortinget. This is done today, for example by offering commuter homes and through free parking in the garage. Facilitating the use of cars by wholesalers to and from Stortinget also has a safety perspective, such as: individual representatives who are not advised to use public transport. Instead of introducing payment parking in the garage, the Presidency will consider alternative measures to facilitate environmentally friendly transport, including: we'll look at how it can be done even better for increased use of bicycles and electric cars when travelling to and from Stortinget. The Presidency's position is therefore that this proposal for a representative is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e522	A few years ago, I came across historical images showing car traffic through the Folketheater Passage at Youngstorget and traffic jams at Egertorget right by Stortinget. Today, we can only imagine the debate that took place when the Folketeater Passage and Egertorget were closed for car traffic. We have the same debates today. But is there anyone who wants the cars back in the Folketheater Passage or at Egertorget? I don't think so. Oslo's gonna have a car-free center. For this reason, the City Council is investing in cycling and public transport, and in an increasing number of areas parking spaces are being converted into common areas. As part of this work, the politicians in Oslo have also decided to remove most of the parking spaces under the City Hall. Politicians are no longer allowed the privilege of free parking. They have to take the trike, ride a bike to work or go. And those who have to drive have to pay for the parking lot themselves, as many others in this country also have to. Often it can be difficult to live as one preaches. I'm going to be one of the first to sign it. But we who have our job at Stortinget have the best possibilities for that. There is not one job in this country that has a better collective offer in its immediate vicinity. And of course, the Stortinget is going to contribute to the work of making Oslo a green and pleasant city, by making sure that there are fewer cars running through the Oslo Centre. The charging of parking spaces in the landfill garage is one important tool in this way. And if there's anyone who can afford to pay for a parking lot if they absolutely need it, it's us, especially after the salary increase that the majority intends to vote for later today. I understand that people react to politicians who grant themselves privileges other people don't have, people who react to politicians who manage to give themselves a powerful paycheck and still give themselves free parking on one day. We do not save the world by introducing a parking fee in the garage, but we show people that we ourselves are willing to do what we ask them to do, and we are making our contribution to a more pleasant city with fewer cars – a city that is for people, not the cars, even if it should be a well-paid depositor behind the steering wheel. And with that, I will address the proposal that SV has submitted to the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e543	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e548	This growth has been behind the objective of taking traffic growth in the major cities of Norway with collective, bicycle and gangways. It is a decision that obligates. We, who are here, are in the centre of Oslo, in the middle of one of the best places in the country to travel collectively. That's why I'm surprised when I read the presidency position, because the presidency stresses that it must be easy to get to and from the Stortinget. I think the easiest way to get to and from Stortinget is through public transport. It has become difficult to drive in the Oslo center, and so it should be, because we are transforming this whole city – like other cities around the country, into cities that are for people, not for cars. Then we should go ahead with actually also making it visible that it should not be free to drive a car into the garage. There's going to be a cost related to it, as most people feel there's an increase in the cost of driving a car. I also notice that safety concerns are taken into account. Of course, this is something that needs to be taken seriously, as it is the case that representatives here feel threatened, experience limitations in their everyday lives – like politicians in this city who are sitting in the town hall, who have been paid in advance. There is something which has also been included in the proposal by SV, taken up by the representative Haltbrecken, where one must have ‘payment exemption for persons who, for safety reasons or as a result of disabilities, have to use a car’. This is taken care of, and I hope therefore Stortinget can join the SV's proposal to introduce payment also in the parking spaces in this building.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e557	In this debate, as in the debate on wage increases for policy-makers, I would like to ask for answers from those who believe that well-paid policy-makers are not to pay for parking space in Oslo Centre. Why is it right that policy-makers with an ever-increasing wage should continue to grant themselves that privilege? I read, as the representative Kaski, that the argument of the presidency is that some people have to drive to Stortinget in the interests of safety. I understand that, we have respect for that, and of course they should be exempted – like people with disabilities. But thus, the presidency stands without arguments against entering payment into the garage. I would then challenge the other parties to respond to whether they will vote in favour of SV's proposal tonight, when we have now included that clarification. If they don't intend to do so, I ask them for an open microphone to explain why they believe that well-paid big-time politicians are still going to grant themselves this privilege.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e562	It is not difficult to agree with the two previous speakers from this pulpit. It is also possible that many of my points have been taken by my two colleagues. SV often divides their cases, not least the transport cases, into two groups. We call it the green stuff and the red stuff -- i.e. The two things we want to face – and then we have the blue ones, which we don't tend to face in particular. This issue is both green and red, it is about an environmental perspective and a justice perspective. There are two entrances to this matter. We know that Oslo will become Europe's environmental capital. Environmental policy will not only reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also mean more urban life, a more open city, cleaner air, more cycle paths and even better public transport. Oslo Municipality has set itself the ambitious goal of reducing car traffic by 20 pst. by the end of the next year and by a third by 2030. We have a lot of tools in our toolbox to achieve this. I'm on the Transport Committee, and we're going through the urban package after the urban package – a great tool. We have bombings, we have support for public transport, we build walking and cycling paths – fine things all of them – and then we have one more tool, and that is to look critically at car parking opportunities and pricing in the centre. All research suggests that this is an important tool. The little loophole actually makes us often unable to reach the goal of zero growth for traffic in the centre. This is why it is important for green reasons – and of course for red reasons, that is. the principle of fairness. I don't think people understand it unless the bulk of the population can support SV's proposals here today. The elected representatives should be treated in the same way as others in the city in terms of access and parking prices. We cannot, with one hand, impose demands on ordinary people and actually implement something else for our own sake. With the shadow of the building scandal on the house fresh in memory, I think this is a small price to pay to correct the impression among many that the Stortinges floats in their own little world with rules that do not apply to most people. When I say 'for most people', I especially ask one party to notice it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e571	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e576	Unfortunately, I record that no one will defend publicly the privilege they intend to extend for themselves today – and that in a room where you are usually very contentious to debate and don't hesitate to take the floor on matters. I understand them. Being for free parking for well-paid depositors is an impossible matter to defend.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e582	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e598	The President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Presidentship of the Stortinge. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no replication, and that those who draw on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e607	The Presidency shall present to the Council an opinion on amendments to the Regulations on the Register of Ombudsmen and the economic interests of the representatives. These changes follow the recommendations of the Council of Europe’s anti-corruption body, Greco. First of all, the Presidency proposes that there be an obligation to state liabilities and guarantee liabilities in commercial relationships over 10 and 20 times G. The obligation to register only applies to liabilities for which the representative is personally liable. It is in this case that a liability of a limited liability company has ownership interests in which it is not to be registered. The purpose of the register is to provide information on financial relations that have a public interest, so that a person can see what financial contacts the representatives have. The Presidency believes that it may be as important to be open about personal debt of some extent in business as about investment one has. At the same time, the rules must be practical. I mean here we've found a reasonable balance between these concerns with the new rules. Secondly, there is a rule that representatives are allowed to submit other information about interests of a particular personal or financial nature, if one thinks it has a public interest. The Presidency is here thinking in particular of information relating to a matter to be handled by the Stortinget, where the representative feels that he has a conflict of interest. This may be the case where the representative has duties or other ties in a matter which has particular consequences for him, or for example a planned veggie that goes over his own property and will have a major impact on the value of it. The register can then be used to inform about this, so as to avoid speculation in retrospect. Otherwise, several actions will be taken by the Presidency as part of the follow-up to the recommendations of Greco, among others. by including a reference in the Ethical Guide that the relevant information relating to individual items of information handled by the Stortinget manages can be entered in the register. With this, I urge that a follow the recommendation of the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e620	This is a discussion that has lasted for several periods and years. In the previous period, a separate regulatory committee was set up, inter alia: would look at the registration of financial interests and other interests representatives have. I want to say that the process we carried out there was good, and we came up with a consensus. In short, the intention of the Regulatory Committee was that financial interests should be reported – not, but should be. It was the great principal shift that Stortinget did. For us in SV, it has always been a matter of ensuring that the decisions taken by the Storting are as open as possible. Of course, bribery representatives have ties to society. It can be economic bonds, different types of political interests, trasé choices for a railway or a road section, etc. The most important thing to do is to avoid a suspicion that decisions are influenced by the interests of the staging representatives is that one is open about this – explicitly open. It was in many ways exactly what the Regulatory Committee landed on; we should be explicitly open. This also led us to demand that financial interests be reported. It is with that background that I read the proposal from the Presidency, and in proposal No. 3 I think we're going to change the word from 'can' to'shell'. It's a very simple change in the wording, and I think it's in line with the intention of the committee and the view of the broad plurality of the Stortinget. It would be an advantage for the Storting not to open that kind of can sentence, even for its representatives, so that it is a shell or not, and that it is a clear rule. We have two other proposals, and they apply to guarantees and liabilities. We don't see why one should go all the way up to 10 and 20 times the basic amount to report in. We think one here can see across the borders of Sweden on what rules they have. They have what corresponds to twice the basic amount. 10 times the base is about 1 million. So I'm going to have $20, and I'm going to have $20, and I'm going to have $20. kr. It's important with money. We think we should significantly lower the level. With that, I would like to present the SV's proposal on the matter and hope for an appropriate statement from the rest of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e635	The representative of Torgeir Knag County has drawn up the proposals he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e653	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to three replies from the main speakers of the parties and six replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e664	The budget is due today to deal with the agricultural situation for 2018, and I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee, not least our committee secretary, Marit Halleraker, and the others in the administration. The government's objective for agricultural policy is to provide farmers with the opportunity to exploit the potential of their property and create viable agriculture by facilitating increased food production and profitable farming throughout the country. Agriculture is important for food production, food industry, preparedness, housing and conservation of the cultural landscape. The requirements of agriculture were presented on 26 April and the country’s offer on 4 May. On 7 May the Committee on Agriculture announced that they would be negotiating. The agricultural demand was 1 830 million. kr. In the claim, they gave priority to, inter alia: productions with production growth potential, operational difficulties, small and medium-sized dairy farms and strengthening welfare systems. The State indicated in its offer that agricultural policy has a comprehensive target matrix, with cross-cutting considerations to be balanced against each other. Agriculture is about to get 6 pst. higher income growth over the period 2014-2018 than normal employees, despite income failure over the last two years. The result is largely due to overproduction of pigs, sheep/lam and eggs. In its offer, particular attention was paid to giving priority to the availability of income in productions with market opportunities and to strengthening the basis for the geographical distribution of production, strengthening environmental and climate work, giving priority to areas with operating difficulties and strengthening welfare systems. Account has also been taken of the fact that those who now receive the greatest increase in costs are those who derive a substantial part of their income from the market. On 16 May, the parties concluded an agreement with a framework of 1100 million. kr. I want to commend the agricultural organisations and the state for the consensus, which has been achieved in a very demanding situation of overproduction. In the agreement, agriculture recognises that it is responsible for overproduction and the resulting loss of income. The agreement strengthens Norwegian food production and will contribute to active agriculture across the country. Structural interventions carried out in 2014 remain stable and no new production ceilings and restrictions are introduced. In order not to stimulate further overproduction, the agreement prioritises areas with market opportunities. It prioritises cereal production in good grain areas and grazing and grass production in the districts. Milk consumption between 15 and 30 cows is prioritised and operational difficulties are prioritised within existing schemes to ensure that less land is decommissioned. Agriculture policy is being transformed in a more climate-friendly direction through a strong focus on climate and environmental instruments. Agricultural welfare systems are being strengthened and the parties agree to start work in the pig industry for better market balance and animal welfare. I'm very happy that all the parties agreed, which has only happened 6 times in the last 14 years. In the open consultation within the Committee, the Norwegian Lander stated that they were satisfied that it was possible to reach an agreement on an agricultural agreement. Norwegian Farmers' and Small Farmers' Teams expressed their satisfaction that this year one succeeded in reaching an agreement on both the size of the framework and, not least, the distribution of the framework. Gartnerhallen stated that they are satisfied that plant production and especially fruit and vegetables are a priority in this year's agricultural settlement. And raspberry producer Karl Petter Vintland, my neighbour, whom I visited this weekend, was also extremely pleased with the settlement. It is also a historically good settlement – the best in several decades. At the end of my main post, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, by mistake, the government parties are involved in two comments that we should not attend. For the second column of page 13, the sentence starting with ‘Income failure due to market imbalance’ and the first paragraph under the heading ‘Use of 15-30 cows’ on page 15 of the statement. Then I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e694	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e699	One of the challenges of Norwegian agricultural policy in recent years, which has contributed to creating a demanding situation, is, of course, the market imbalance and the lack of ability to regulate it. Then my question to the representative is very simple: does she see any correlations between the policy that has been pursued in recent years and the actual lack of ability to reduce market imbalances?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e704	This government has given priority to structural measures to enable those in the industry to receive income from which they can live and which can make a return on the investment they have made. When farmers themselves are responsible for balancing the market, we have a expectation that they will do better than they have done now. Then it is said that there are little instruments. The government is now doing a job to find out if there are other ways to balance this within the framework system we have. It is expected that the Sales Council and those working on this will find good ways of achieving a better balance in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e711	Right is the setting in a plural comment where you write that a major emphasis is placed on the realization of the new income target. The revenue target says that one should reduce the revenue gap. Then my question is, is it possible to reduce the income gap without agriculture having at least the same income development as other groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e716	The method of calculation to which agriculture and the country have been linked for a number of years in the course of a staggering process, based on the total agricultural calculation, is not suitable for measuring levels. The State may not adopt an income target for a farmer who makes his or her dispositions on his or her farm every single day. The country can only provide a framework for income development, and the farmers themselves must make their own assessments of farm performance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e721	I think it's professional of the Right to take on the plurality of the Storting when it comes to income targets. That's what I think I'm serious and correct. So the question is, how is one going to achieve the income target that the Storting has set? In this year's report, we are far, far from being able to achieve the income target, i.e. an income trend that actually leads to a reduction in the gap between farmers and other groups. Is this indicated to look like a hump to achieve the income target, or how does the Right's agricultural policy figure look at how to achieve the Storting income target?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e728	Firstly, I would like to remind you that this is one of the best settlements in many decades. I think most people out there are very satisfied, and that they fold up their sleeves and do something about the market imbalance that exists today, plus other factors that affect the pay level of the farmers. That's a lot of things. It's production conditions, it's weather and climate, it's interest rate development and cost development. The arrangements made by a self-employed farmer affect the results and revenues very much. The total calculation is also not a suitable system for measuring income levels. It only measures a trend over time. If we were to go to a chronically similar development as for everyone else, we would have had a completely different basis to build on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e733	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e739	In recent years we have heard the government parties and not least the Minister of Agriculture boasted of the situation in Norwegian agriculture and food production, that things are really going better. I think you can thank the weather and the production possibilities for much of that. Because, in fact, there has been a difficult development in recent years. It has not been good, based on the quality that I believe is important for Norwegian agriculture to meet. With today's government, the possibilities of producing food have gradually been challenged throughout the country. Increased volume of production, overproduction and the lack of ability to regulate this is, of course, a strong centralising force which clearly leads Norwegian agriculture in the wrong direction. When most of the agricultural agreements are extracted in the form of the market, this development is naturally reinforced. It's the biggest that wins, and the more marginal uses lose. In view of these developments — and a strong cost increase — the situation ahead of the year’s settlement was, of course, demanding. The wrong direction could still be strengthened by the settlement we are now dealing with, if the actual positions of the government parties had not changed in relation to today's settlement. For the Workers' Party, four qualities in particular build the strong legitimacy of agriculture. It's a high-quality, safe and high-quality farm; an agricultural holding throughout the country; agriculture exploiting the country's resources, including the more marginal an agricultural sector which is built up under a strong food industry and which ensures safe and forward-looking jobs; On the part of the Workers' Party, we would like to commend the parties for their success in agreeing to an agreement – and recognise the responsibilities of the trade unions, not least in this year's settlement. But it can be demanding in the future, because interest rates can increase and price increases are expected to decrease. What can be a trace of optimism is that the agreement contributes to adjusting the rate applied in previous settlements. Priority shall be given, inter alia, to: grants for areas with operational difficulties and new grants for small and medium-sized dairy farms are introduced. Of course, this must continue to allow some of the qualities that we value in relation to agriculture to continue. A majority of the Committee – and also of the Stortinget – believes that a zero rate for livestock aid should be considered above herd sizes, which are expected to provide satisfactory operating results without subsidies. We believe that it is making a prioritizing and clarifying some of the things that will be demanding in the future. Priority will be given to facilitating agriculture across the country with a varied structure of use, and it is one of the related measures. We have recently launched a stepping-up plan for Norwegian food production. We think it is absolutely necessary that we make greater use of the marginal areas and the marginal areas around the country in order to succeed in continuing the good quality of Norwegian agriculture. The agreement – and the agreements to be concluded – has just required action to ensure a better balance of the market and the regulatory constraints that do not result in an agricultural situation across the country. The Committee places particular emphasis on some aspects: that we should have proper import protection, that we should have good market balancing arrangements and that we should have quota arrangements for milk. It's important that this is followed up. The agreement also prioritises various instruments to contribute to the development of agriculture in a more environmentally and climate-friendly way. It is crucial for the credibility of Norwegian food production in the years to come. It is a pity that the agreement does not help to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other social groups, as the Storting has foreseen. But on the assumption that we were facing a difficult situation, we believe that this year's agricultural settlement is a good foundation for us to now make a significant change in course in line with the large number of people who have said very clearly that we should have. I now expect the government to follow up the agricultural policy of the majority of the population, and that what we have seen in this year's negotiations is a permanent cancellation of the Right and Advance Party's agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e773	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e778	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e783	The representative of Terje Aasland has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It'll be a string word change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e790	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV claim in a comment in the opinion that the government of Solberg has led to centralisation in agriculture for the last five years. There is no evidence that this government’s policy has had a centralising effect. On the contrary, it can be shown that the increase in grass-based livestock in cereal areas under the previous government has largely reversed. The measures to ensure the basis for the geographical distribution of production and for areas of operational difficulties have been reinforced and the grant to exploit the land is significantly strengthened. The subsidisation of grass production in the cereal regions has been phased out. Can the representative of Aasland substantiate these claims?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e797	I'm very pleased with the question. There is no doubt that one of the major differences between the Workers' Party's emphasis on the qualities of Norwegian agricultural policy and the Right and Advance Party's emphasis is on this precisely by using the opportunities and land resources around the country. There is no doubt that if a situation in which one increases production volume and regulates the opportunities for good market management continues, it is clear that a person is given a self-enhancing effect by centralisation coming. It does not only come in the good areas, it also comes in the more marginal areas, where, for example, it comes in the more marginal areas. increase in milk production, etc. contribute to the centralisation of agricultural production. It doesn't want the Workers' Party to be in. We believe it is important that we have good use of the country's land, and not least that we see that there is a living farm with varied farm sizes throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e802	Now I see that the representative of Terje Aasland is talking about futures. In the comment in the setting, it's about the last five years of the Solberg government. Then I asked again about the claims in the setting, and what the representative was also in his post, can be documented.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e807	There is no doubt that developments in the last four years, where one provides more and more for larger production units and an increasing volume of production around the different central farms in the country, will result in centralisation. It will also be reinforced in a situation where one spends more and more on taking advantage of the gains in the market. Then, of course, the biggest draw of farms will have the big wins. While picking up gains in the market is becoming more and more demanding, it is clear that it is the largest that is winning. It will be a centralizing effect, and this centralizing effect has been prepared by the government of Solberg, not least with an agricultural minister from the Progress Party, who has this as his ideological approach to Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e812	I'm a little surprised at what the representative of Aasland actually says here, because one of the big grips that was taken in 2014 was to strengthen the channelling policy. It also happened last year, and it happens this year. Does that mean that the Labour Party's policy now is that we should also start producing more milk in the cereal-based areas – because that must be the consequence? What Aasland calls centralisation will weaken rural agriculture. I would also like to ask, in connection with the manifesto that stood in the nations, what is the representative of Aasland's message to the young farmers who have invested between 10 and 15 million. kr in new operational buildings? Should it be deregulated, so that their ability to produce and create the good life will crumble? Is that the policy of the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e819	Now, I guess not exactly the Left is known to be afraid to hit those who have recently invested, cf. e.g. fur animals, but there is no doubt that, for the Labour Party, the channelling policy is essential. We're going to produce cereals where grain can be produced, and also let it be an important support for having food production all over the country. It is quite obvious that we need to invest more in the marginal areas around the district of Norway – making them even more profitable and investing more in land efficiency, etc. related to this. It will just underpin the opportunities to invest, and it will also be part of – we believe – giving a more optimistic future. So we are clearly committed to strengthening and further developing the channelling policy that is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e826	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e832	I am very pleased that this year we got an agreement between all three parties, both the state, the Land team and the Small User Team. It's been many years since all three signed an agreement. When that happened, it must be because the offer was initially very good, and they managed to get a deal that all parties were reasonably satisfied with. If not, it would never have been signed under any agreement. I am very pleased about that, and I look forward to the opportunities that this agreement now provides for agriculture in the coming year, and in the years to come. Much of the basis for this settlement and for the agricultural policy that has been pursued is starting from 2014. A number of structural measures were then taken to increase food production in Norway, which has been a challenge for a long time. We have had a lot of underproduction and have not been able to fill the market with the products we need, and then something had to be done. Among the structural measures that were taken were: the area grant was completely flattened, so that one now receives the same aid per dekar no matter how much one has, and it is not such that one no longer receives any aid when one has passed 80 dekar. We did the same when it came to cows. Now get a support for having over 50 animals, one gets support for having more than 500 other cattle, and one gets support for having more than 300 sheep. In the past, a penalty was imposed if a effort was made to produce more food and had more livestock than these figures. This helped us to get a deficit of, among other things. sheep and lamb. In addition, this government ensured that the slaughter premium was increased in sheep and lambs, and we got increased production. This has now led to what is called an overproduction of sheep and lambs. As I see it, it's really not an overproduction, but the producers have not been able to sell enough of what they produce. Then one has to look again at market opportunities. I consider sheep meat to be a product that is sold at certain times of the year. Both agriculture and not least food chains have a major challenge in ensuring that this is sold throughout the year, is available throughout the year, because it is a good product. At the same time, we need to start to look at the opportunities that exist around the world much more closely. Now so little fennel years are beginning to break through in France, but we have a lot of economies in the world that are growing rapidly, and there are opportunities. Take a look at the following examples: China and South Korea, which have economies of strong growth, and which have people who are interested in buying food – good food with good quality. And what in the world is better quality than Norwegian meat products? There are opportunities and opportunities should be exploited. The changes we have made have led us to better facilitate full-time use, where farmers live more of food production alone and will pick up most of their income from what they produce, food, which is what agriculture is supposed to do. Furthermore, the aim was to increase production in most sectors, i.e. the need to pay for the expansion of production. In addition, in this settlement, we have invested in those areas where there is a large market potential, such as: cereals, fruit, vegetables, berries and potatoes, which are the winners of the year's agricultural settlement. Here, there are also great opportunities for those who want it. It's exactly what an agricultural settlement is; it's not a paycheck, it's an agreement that gives a nutrition the opportunity to grow. It was interesting to hear the line change where the representative Aasland was asked about the centralizing effect. It was a pleasure to hear the answer to Aasland, because it didn't say any of the world's things. He had no evidence of the centralizing effect. On the other hand, he tried a good explanation, and he should have, it was good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e851	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e856	The agricultural agreement is important for the industry. But it also works with other important political leaders and decisions. One of them is the wolf settlement, which is concluded here in Stortinget. There are many reasons why this is important, including: it is anti-conflict and it builds confidence, but it is also evident that it is related to living agriculture. I allow myself to ask the representative Ørsal Johansen whether he is sure that this part of the policy, which has a clear meaning for living agriculture, not least inland, is well followed up by the government with the Council of State Elvesuen as the responsible State Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e861	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e866	I want to grab hold of it too. The use of resources throughout the country is an important element of predatory policies. The progress party has clearly forgotten this. In this setting, they are not included in a note that states that the adopted predatory policy must help to make better use of grazing resources. The government sends a government council to feed the wolf puppy Balder, an extreme provocation against those who lose sheep to predators. We're above the population targets that the Stortinget has set. Then my question is: is Morten Ørsal Johansen happy with the government's follow-up to predatory policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e873	Now the researchers are making their proposals for licensing. Then you have to wait and see what the denominators do. I see that the secretariat in a few subjects has made proposals that I do not agree with, but I hope the denominators will do something about it. But before we get the suggestions for the calculus numbers from the denominators, I think we can say that I'm satisfied with what the government is doing. And then we'll see if there's any complaints about the numbers being proposed, if the government does what it should. I'll take that as a prerequisite. The wolf settlement we have is solid, and it has to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e878	I record that the representative Ørsal Johansen is not as clear and clear as he was in his reply to the representative Sveen on this question. But I thought there'd be a lot of words here. We have an emergency situation. In that situation, the government chooses to travel and perform a provocation against people in the countryside. Then I ask again: is the government's follow-up to the wolf settlement satisfied by the government, and is the representative pleased with the way the government has recently communicated this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e883	I have no doubt that the Council of State is satisfied with the government's policy, which was the first question. Whether the representative is equally satisfied – yes, I am satisfied with the follow-up that is. So of course we can discuss how clever it is to make some media advances. Until we find out which killings are proposed, and see what happens to it – if we get killings in line with the predatory settlement – I am satisfied with the government's predatory policy, but the representative Pollestad can be 100 pst. ensure that the undersigned will follow this closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e888	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e893	For the Centre Party, it is important to have an agricultural policy that facilitates agriculture throughout the country, where we use resources. If we are to do that, we must have active small and large uses and dedicated farmers who are behind them. The backstop of this year's agricultural agreement is a decrease in income in the last year. It's a warning of a massive cost increase estimated at 1.4 billion. kr. So until the representative Foss who goes up here and openbert has got the impression that this is the best agricultural settlement in several decades: that's not true. For the farmer, how much income growth he will experience per year on his garden. Declared this year to facilitate an income development of NOK 11 700. One should be bad in mathematics for example. to make it a higher number than 31,000, which it was in 2013. So here I think Right has to figure out its calculator, but it unfortunately confirms my impression that in the Right's agricultural policy, the salsa and the PR apparatus were more important than the content of the policy. Then it's like one's made the deal. I understand that agriculture chose to sign, but the agreement entered into will lead to an increase in the revenue gap – despite the fact that the income target of the Storting is to reduce the revenue gap. But it is important to establish that the income target is fixed, and I believe that the committee's position also underlines. I am pleased that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party in a note underline the importance of this income goal. And when you're going to be able to reduce the income gap, there's only one way to do it. It's that agriculture in dollars must have a higher wage trend than other groups. One can try with all kinds of flakes and phrases that one has learned to get away from it and that the ministry is frequent suppliers of, but it doesn't change the reality. A problem is reducing your income gap by just a percentage. I can't do this. There are also some positive signs in the agreements. One is that a person is in favour of a strengthened tool to control the market balance. I just want to underline how important it is that they are actually followed up. It is also good, and a little bit strange, that a State Council from the Progress Party chooses to introduce a new proposal. This is because one didn't want to go back on the model that was added in 2014, without a roof. So one had to do something more bureaucracy to let go of the principle that was there. But I support the new approach to small and medium-sized applications. But it is also gratifying that a number in the committee say that one must consider whether there should be a limit to the number of animals for which an animal can be accepted. The setting may be a little clumsy, but there's nothing else there but an evaluation of whether a roof of the animal support should be applied. That's the way to think about it. I was in a line exchange with the representative Ørsal Johansen, and I regret that I was injured to call him the Council of State. I expect he's living well with it. But it's bad, what's happening in predatory politics, and it's pretty bad that the Progress Party now doesn't make it clear that it was very unwise by the Council of State Elvesuen to travel up and cosmopolitan with the wolf puppies Balder. It was a stupid thing to do. I mean – and I would like the Progress Party to say it – that it is very regrettable that we are high above the stock target. There has to be another effort here. But in order to secure power, they have taken the Left into the government, and then we get this kind of policy, where the care of the wolf goes over the care of animal welfare and of people in the countryside. In this matter, we are also dealing with an eco-strategy. There we know that there will be an extra demand, and I think it's wise to aim for the organic products for which it is requested to be produced in Norway. I would like to mention proposal No. 4, of which the center part is a part.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e914	The representative Geir Pollestad has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e922	For the first time in eight years, there was an agreement with both Norwegian Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small User Teams. Getting to an agreement with the latter is an exercise that I guess gives me a sense of mastery even in the Center Party. They failed half the time they tried to run the department themselves. The agreement this year landed largely close to the country's offer, although the parties obviously had to give and take. Before the agreement was concluded, the representative Pollestad characterised the country’s offer as an ‘attack to Norwegian food production’. Now, as we all know, the Center Party is best off when they're on the ground, but can she be the representative in this case over in the maritime, and provided with a little bit of Møller's tran – or does the representative maintain the description of the state's record high offer as an «attack to Norwegian food production»?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e929	Yes, the supply from the state was an attack on Norwegian food production. To list some simple conditions there: First, the state had put in a theoretical estimate of how much a better market balance should be – I think it was 348 million. kr. This added as a separate invasion, without providing the agricultural tool needed to fulfill it. If one were to take this into account in future years, it would undermine the important income target set by the Storting. Therefore, I think there is one example that there is an attack on Norwegian food production. I also mean that there's something called the pyramid – as you might have called it – that corrects a good deal when it comes to small and medium-sized applications. So I have full coverage for such a claim. I also want to use it the next time the government attacks Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e938	The representative Pollestad said it was wrong that this was the best settlement in several decades. Seven hundred seventy million. kr above the budget is the best, at least in the last 14 years. I can prove that to the representative Pollestad today if he wants to see it. My question to Pollestad is the same as to the representative of Aasland: can the representative Pollestad prove that the government of Solberg's agricultural policy has had a centralising effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e945	I would like to bring the representative Foss into a garden at Sun on 1 May 2014. There's a Rock Taxi coming. In it’s representative of the Left – and I believe the representative Foss was with himself – and then State Council Listhaug. They had an idea. They thought it was a very good idea to double the concession limit for chicken overnight. There was no professional advice. The council itself said that she had thought of 250,000, but then there was someone who had said 280,000. That was a good idea. It triggered an overproduction situation, which – one may go in and see – has contributed to a strong centralisation of the production of chicken, where use in the districts is purchased or laid down. Production will move closer to the slaughterhouse. What happened that day centralized Norwegian chicken production. I think that's one of several examples of centralization.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e952	If we're going to go a little further on that representative Pollestad called an attack on Norwegian food production: I happened to take before we went into the debate here and looked a little bit over the last few years the red-greens crashed, and it had to be an attack on Norwegian food production continuously during their reign. Is it such that we have come there now that the Central Party is looking for something to criticize just for the peculiarity of the criticism? Is it that we are now about to see that when the representative Pollestad takes a line on others, it is not necessarily about the agricultural settlement of the year? Is it that the Centre Party is now running out of rhetoric in agriculture? Or is it that the Centre Party has actually played its part in Norwegian agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e957	When it comes to replicas on others and what a theme to cover, I think I've listed themes that are mentioned in the option. The agricultural agreement is an important part of the overall agricultural policy. However, it is clear that other areas of concern are also of great importance. It is not that you have to look for a long time to find things to criticize this government for. It is enough to see that one has proposed the imposition of a ban on the feeding of fur animals – a profitable export industry. The fur can be produced anywhere in the world. He can be sold in Norway, but he must not be produced in Norway. We have a government that has sent a ban on newly cultivated ants on hearing. It's a completely absurd idea at a time when we're going to increase Norwegian food production. And so we have a government that travels around and pet wolf puppies, which I find very good reason to criticize. So the Center Party criticises when there's reason to criticize, and then we give praise when there's reason to give praise.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e968	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e973	This debate develops into a very general discussion that takes on matters that really have nothing to do with this statement. What we are going to discuss today is whether the statement is in line with what was the clear instructions from Stortinget in the setting when we dealt with the agricultural message last year. That's what we're going to do, and that's what we're going to discuss. Have the parties delivered, have they offered to the State in the manner requested by the Storting, and the clear orders placed there? The answer to that question is no. Where the Stortinget gave a clear message that we want to smooth out the income gap between farmers and other groups in society, and that evolution should be chronically equal at least, one has not delivered. Once again, when the Storting gives a position and we are now in plenary confirming the Committee's signal, it should be clear to the Council of State that he has received a clear marshall: the majority of the new Storing repeats the income target and clarifies that it means chronically equal income development. So the same thing said a multiple when dealing with the previous agricultural problem. In addition, a joint committee has repeatedly and clearly outlined a series of other things. We want an active and diverse agriculture throughout the country, with productions and business structures based on local land, pasture and land. We also stress that we need a well-functioning import protection if we are to do this, where the authorities are doing their part of the job, and where the industry has the means to follow this up. And we want to target geographical and structurally differentiated tools over the agricultural agreement, so that we can achieve more of Norway's use, take back the areas that we've lost over time. Then it's worth noting that the majority on the Stortinget is making sure that there should be a zero rate for animal support for large herd sizes. SV wants to go hacking any further. We want to reintroduce the roof and strengthen the structure profile on a number of boards, among others. livestock yields and land parcels of berries, fruit, vegetables and cereals. It's necessary if you're going to reverse the negative development of the area that we've seen over a long period of time and that reinforces itself with the line on which this data is based. If we are to take back out-of-service land, we need to reverse developments and make it more profitable for small and medium-sized enterprises and facilitate operational difficulties around us. So I'll say a few words about the eco-stake in this statement. The majority at Stortinget said clearly that we want to achieve a goal with a plan to increase the production and consumption of organic products in Norway. One doesn't have to go further than Sweden or Denmark to see that they've come much further in their eco-shaking than what we've done. They have even integrated it into their agricultural policy thinking, adapting the animals, adapting the area so that one can have an increased investment in organic products. Here in Norway, we are at risk of losing self-sufficiency and becoming a major importer of organic food, because we know that consumers will have more organic food in the future, and without political control, it is difficult to see that production will follow demand. One sees that only e.g. The defence's purchase of organic milk in the north has made a sudden final offer of organic milk in shops there. The public should be led. Let me say that I am quite disappointed and surprised that SV is the only party in this setting that will still have a concrete goal and a concrete plan with sectorial leadership for how to increase the ecological element in Norwegian agriculture. We believe that this is a huge loss for Norwegian agriculture. It could weaken import protection, and we'll make ourselves more dependent on imports.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e988	Will the representative address the proposal of the Socialist Left? - He will. Then the representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has drawn up the proposal of the Socialist Left Party. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e997	It was exciting to hear the representative Fylkesnes’ alternative policy, but what was interesting to hear was the income target. So now we've established that the total agricultural calculation is not suitable for measuring income levels, but only a relative development. Where a non-basic material is suitable for measuring the level, it is difficult to determine the size of an income gap. When we know that we have approx. 40000 different self-employed agricultural workers – with different costs, different productions, different levels of investment – how does the representative want to calculate, to figure out, how much each individual should have in increased net income, so that there is a fair system?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1002	I think it's a very strange question from the representative Ørsal Johansen. So the starting point here is that we're measuring this mean to other groups in society, and that's also an average we're doing this comparison from. This means that one looks at the average of all groups in society, and then looks at how wage developments are for farmers – on average – well knowing that there are great differences here, even within the peasantry. Those who do small-scale use tend very often to be significantly smaller than those who do large-scale use. Especially with the line being led by this government – by removing the ceiling in 2014, and some other tools – has a view that pay differentials also increase among farmers. But it makes sense to take an average, because that average actually shows what kind of social development we want for farmers, if they're going to start approaching other groups in society -- or one -- and then the answer is simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1010	I did not understand this, and it may be that no others did either, but it was interesting to hear anyway. We're going to have a good agricultural income development, and in recent years the income development of agriculture has been far above other groups. When you increase in percent relative to other groups, you also decrease the distance. Does the representative agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1017	I'm not going to take too hard, but maybe one could take the math course one more time if one hasn't got it properly in place. But of course, you start with very little and then you get a big percentage increase, and then you compare with someone who has a lot, and you get a little percentage increase – then you're almost asking Ørsal Johansen: do you close a gap then, or don't you close it? And if the representative doesn't expect to do that, I think we just have to thank you for the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1022	Just a short, small question: how much does the representative think a farmer should earn on average, and how much is a high and low income in agriculture? And now we have to remember, in terms of paychecks, that what we're doing here on the Storting is giving income opportunities, it's not a paycheck. And in addition, how does the representative believe that the Stortinget should ensure that agriculture – i.e. the 40,000 self-employed in this country – receives income that they have earned? Are we going to adopt it, or are we going to give agriculture opportunities, as we have done, and that have proven to work very well?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1029	Here one only has to start choosing and choosing the number of questions. I thought the first question for the representative was interesting – how much does the farmer want to make? It might be very interesting to say the right government's point of view -- what is it really going to be here, what level is it really stretching to? In the SV program, we want to close the pay gap between the farmers and the average of the other wage income groups, and it's supposed to be literally, it says in the program. But we're very concerned about the distribution between farmers, that is, that it's going to pay a lot more money to run small, so that we can use all of the land that's used up today, which isn't worth driving because the incomes in agriculture are as divided as they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1036	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1041	This year we got the best result in the agricultural settlement. It has nothing to do with individual grants, income targets or individual measures against overproduction. The parties agreed, and there is a major victory in this year's agricultural settlement. It's a victory because this is where the settlement belongs. The solution is best when it comes as a negotiated result between the farmer and the state. It came as a result of a serious first offer from the state, and the peasant representatives, who showed moderation and reason in their demands. I want to boast both sides of this today. They've done an excellent job, which serves the industry the best, through that settlement. The Minister of Agriculture has acted in an inclusive, orderly and tidy manner, bringing together the political parties of the Stortinget and the peasant organizations. The fact that you have had the Left on the team in government has also been a strength, in my opinion. I also believe that the negotiations have been marked by the fact that there are three, not just two, parties in government. In the negotiated settlement itself, there are especially three aspects I want to highlight, first of all, that the revenue growth of 3.5 p.m. is good – and fully in line with forecasts of other groups’ percentage wage increases. This is important in order for life to be created for those who want to invest in agriculture in the future as well. For the Left, it has also been important to facilitate small and medium-sized applications. It is also very gratifying that the parties agreed to prioritize use in the West in the allocation of operating difficulties grants. In addition, when the parties agreed to give priority to those sectors with the highest market potential, the focus of the agricultural policy of the Left is on the right. For us it has always been important to view the farmer as a self-employed person responsible for his own production and development. I am concerned that during this four-year period we will make it easier and safer to be a farmer, and that there will be a future job that people dare to invest in. We have also been concerned that there should not only be a pinch of big players in the country. We welcome small and medium-sized applications and want us to have agriculture that also provides room for them. The agricultural policy of the left has been driven and developed by, among others: niche products from farming around the country, products that have export potential of the same size as some fishery products we know create interest in the whole world. It must also focus on the coming years. A tour around Green Week shows that Norwegian agricultural products have a potential, but they have not yet reached the world. We must work more for new markets in Asia, among others, and in other regions where the appetite for Norwegian quality products is only now under way. The trade mark ‘Norway’ is strongly associated with quality. It must be used by agriculture. I also record that the agreement makes a greater contribution to geographical production sharing, which we were also concerned about last year. I think that's good. It is important that we take care of agricultural land throughout the country. We need to take seriously the statistics that show that, between 1999 and 2017, there has been a reduction in agricultural land, especially in the West, in Agder and in North Norway. The agreement also facilitates, not least, the continuation of the important channelling policy for cereals production where cereals can be grown and the livestock and grass areas. Livestock production is the most economically important production, and it is important that we facilitate that part of the agricultural industry that has good living conditions in mountain, western and northern Norway. The agreement also provides for a significant increase in agriculture in Norway. It is good that most of the funds are allocated to environmental and climate action. Agriculture in Norway is one of the main suppliers of solutions to the green shift, the industry is conscious of its responsibility and takes the lead in world leadership. That's what I think and the Left is good. There is a lot of good things going on in Norwegian agriculture right now. There is no doubt that some of the powerful market signals are reaching us. However, the fact that the forecasts of population growth and consumption patterns in Norway are downgraded, combined with the fact that agricultural productivity growth is formidable, presents us with challenges in the coming years. There are very limited possibilities to increase the volume of agricultural products in the Norwegian market. That's the facts we have to relate to. I believe that Norwegian agricultural products have the potential to be world leaders. We have a wonderfully documented plant and animal health and an animal welfare we can be very proud of. In these areas, I feel that the industry itself is taking initiatives and is forward-looking. That's good. The fact that Norway has a positive attitude in combination with quality products, including: vegetables from Toten, wild sauce, pure eggs and poultry production can give us advantages that the world market will see positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1069	First of all, the Christian People's Party would like to congratulate the government, the League of Bonds and Small Farmers with a good deal of work and agreement on the year's declaration. The starting point was not the simplest, but the parties have done a solid job. The start of the year’s negotiations was marked by market imbalance and high cost growth. The fact that all parties became members of this year's agricultural agreement helps to strengthen the contract institute as a unique interaction venue. The Christian People's Party wants an active and diverse agriculture throughout the country, with productions and business structures based on local land, grazing, forest and land. We then need a well-functioning import protection, an interaction between authorities and industry in the Agricultural Contracts Institute. Good market balancing arrangements, quota arrangements for milk and the geographical and structurally differentiated instruments of the Agreement will also be decisive. Overproduction in major productions has dramatically reduced market revenues for many farmers. The Christian People's Party is therefore particularly pleased that the parties strengthen the market balancing toolbox in the year's report, and sees it as decisive to ensure the smooth functioning of market regulation as arrows in Norwegian agriculture. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party is pleased with the clarification that voluntary action as a trade-union at the request of market regulator falls within the primary industry exemption of competition law. The Christian People's Party has an important but falling income effect on the industry. This is a means of income available when the user has positive entrepreneurial income. An increase in agricultural deductions will give strong incentives to align operations in a way that increases the excess, and this will strengthen the cost hunt for each single use. So it's an important tool to keep your cost growth down. The Christian People's Party will have an active and diverse agriculture throughout the country, with productions and entrepreneurial structures based on local soil, grazing, forest and land. The Christian People's Party would therefore always like to target geographical and structurally differentiated tools over the agricultural agreement. The Christian People's Party is therefore satisfied with the clear district profile in the distribution of the year's contract framework, such as the division of zone 5 for roughage premiums and the increase of district allowances. It is also good that the parties have developed and strengthened the existing tool to address operational problems. 15-30 farms are the backbone of Norwegian milk production. In large parts of the country, the renewal of these will be decisive for further milk production, and the investment funds from the agricultural agreement are important to reduce capital commitments by renewing the building stock. The Christian People's Party is well pleased with the strong focus on these practices in the agreement and is pleased that the parties through the negotiations have put in place a new instrument for small and medium-sized dairy farming. The Christian People's Party is concerned that there should be little medicine use and good animal welfare in Norwegian livestock farming. This can best be ensured by close and ongoing cooperation between competent producers, industry, veterinarians and authorities. Access to veterinary assistance in all parts of the country is important in order to ensure preparedness for serious communicable diseases and for animal welfare and the production economy. It is a challenge with adequate veterinary coverage in large parts of North Norway, but the Christian People's Party is well pleased that the veterinary travel support scheme has been strengthened somewhat. Finally, the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) made an error in the Climate Fund comment in the setting. This means we're a budgetary matter that we're not going to take now, and so we're going out of this comment. The Christian People's Party is not negative to a climate fund, but thinks this is something we'll evaluate when we prepare our alternative budget and evaluate the soundness.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1088	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1093	The Christian People's Party is very much talking about the negotiating institute. So does the right. We actually have a national meeting decision that we are in favour of it. This year, it was agreed, and the organisations are evenly satisfied with the results, but in the setting, the Christian People's Party goes a long way in imposing specific obligations on one party, i.e. the state, at individual points in the use of instruments. In this way, the Christian People's Party is exaggerating what happened in the negotiations. The question to the representative Molvær Grimstad is: if the Christian People's Party is committed to taking care of the negotiating institute, why are the concrete measures proposed in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1098	The Christian People's Party believes the negotiating institute is important because it means that the state and peasant organizations together come to both the framework and the distribution of it. The Christian People's Party believes it's a value that those who have shoes on, and know the industry best, are involved in negotiating for next year's framework and distribution. This is also the reason why the Christian People's Party is very reluctant to comment on demands, offers and negotiations in general while they are in progress. That is because we want this to be a real debate. At the same time, Stortinget has a responsibility to lay down the framework for agricultural policy. We have done this through, among other things. the agricultural message, but also in the setting and before specified. Then we're in and we're in and we're in and out for the future – and that's what it's got to be. The Christian People's Party thinks there's no contradiction here. The size of the population is reflected in the agricultural policy, and the government and farmers' organisations are negotiating it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1103	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1109	Environmental policy is about preserving life on earth. That is why agricultural policy is a central issue for all environmental parties. It is agriculture that manages the living biological components of our economy: the cornfields, which yield bread, the multiplicity of microlife in the food field, the species-rich cultural landscape of the valleyside and millions of animals in poultry, halls and pastures all over the country – the enormous wealth of life that we manage. Then we have to make high demands on how we do it. We have to recognise that the animals have self-esteem and that they also deserve to be treated with respect and care. We have to recognize that the food soil can be destroyed forever if we use it incorrectly or build it down. We have to recognise that an agriculture based on Norwegian resources is a prerequisite for agriculture to ensure food security for us living in the country. Therefore, we must also recognise that large-scale farming can never function optimally in a country where resources are so dispersed. The consequence of these general findings is that agriculture in Norway can never become a normal industry, governed by a wish to maximise production and profit in the short term in a perfect market. Taking care of everything in agriculture is a major and important common task for our society – a common task that requires supervision, experience, caution and knowledge over time. Therefore, Norway needs a new agricultural policy, which takes better care of both the working conditions of farmers and animals and nature, a policy that imposes stricter requirements on animal welfare, on quality and on local resource use and its impact on the environment, while at the same time giving Norwegian farmers time, space and economy to carry out the important work they do on behalf of all of us. I have to say a little bit about this year's agricultural settlement: we in the Greens probably didn't think I should be standing here on the Great Britain's pulpit and give the Progress Party Councils the brunt of an agricultural settlement, but this year I do. Get on the roof! We believe that the Council of State deserves commendation for having concluded an agricultural agreement that prioritises small and medium-sized applications in several areas and recognises the value of local resource use. This settlement is marked by a Council of State that is able to set aside its own party’s captors and rather acknowledges the framework set by the majority of the population for agricultural policy. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that the main features of Norwegian agricultural policy remain constant even after the year's agricultural settlement. It is a policy that leads to the rapid closure of farms and the continued re-growth of cultural landscapes, which subsidises investments in a use structure that is becoming increasingly detached from the use of land and which deprioritises organic farming, to name a few. A simple agricultural settlement like this cannot change this long-term trend, and that is why the Green Party is promoting five proposals here today, which we believe can contribute to a sensible framework for future agricultural settlements. Firstly, we are proposing to remove the control fee for organic production in order to reduce red tape and increase the profitability of organic farming. Secondly, we are proposing to remove the bottom-up deduction for aid and subsidies to agricultural businesses in order to strengthen the economy for the smallest uses. Thirdly, we propose setting reasonable access to local feed resources as a condition for receiving support for large initial investments, in order to stimulate reduced feed imports and a use structure according to the local resource base. Fourthly, we propose the establishment of a national animal welfare mark that can be used in Norwegian agricultural products produced with particularly high animal welfare standards. Fifthly, we propose that the next agricultural policy government should give even more priority to the following than today: organic farming use with special high animal welfare local resource use increased vegetable production rather than increased meat production better profitability for small and medium-sized applications across the country gradual restoration of reasonable grant ceilings, so that we take a little from the big ones to give a little to the small ones With that, I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1156	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1161	Unfortunately, agriculture is going in the wrong direction because our country is becoming less and less self-sufficient in feed for domestic animals and food for the population. Self-sufficiency is weakened due to an increase in the use of power-feed, a decline in grazing, and de-utilisation of land. We are becoming increasingly dependent on seizure of land abroad to feed domestic animals here in Norway — while our grass is growing, for little use. The violent focus on volume and efficiency, which has dominated agricultural policy over the last decades, has given us low self-sufficiency, debt growth and overproduction. That is why we are facing a risky situation with uncertain prospects. Production costs are higher than market revenues, and the combination of growing liabilities and overproduction provides, in total, strongly increasing production costs and strongly decreasing market revenue. The largest and most expensive farm products are also those that depend most on government appropriations. The fight for intra-industry distribution of grant crowns will be tougher in the future. Agriculture policy is not just for farmers. It shall also ensure that social tasks are carried out on behalf of the Community, and the social tasks of agriculture are to use the land in a way that facilitates sustainable food production that provides us with safe and nutritious food without reducing the possibility of future generations at the same time. Agricultural policy must combine the profitability assessments of the self-employed farmer with the social mission of the farmer. It must be profitable for farmers to align the use of the soil and food production so that the societal engagement of the industry can be carried out in line with the objectives, but this is not happening today. The volume focus that dominates the Norwegian agricultural policy makes the instruments of agricultural policy today conflict with the objectives of the agricultural policy. Low-cost power feed, volume subsidies and investment aid for large-scale poultry frees the volume of production from the resource base, from the operating economy and from market demand. In order to reverse developments, we need to talk about the social mission of agriculture, not just about the subsidies or sums of money from the agricultural negotiations. We have to answer why we have agricultural policy. A crucial objective of agricultural policy is to ensure preparedness, self-sufficiency and food security. Norwegian food production must then be based on Norwegian resources. This is why Red proposes that the government set targets to increase the Norwegian self-sufficiency rate to 50 pst. corrected for imported feedingstuffs and, within the next agricultural settlement, propose measures to achieve that objective. This proposal is in line with the majority remarks made by the Stortinget in favour of the agricultural report last year. Then a joint committee said that: ‘really increased self-sufficiency depends on increased food production on the basis of Norwegian resources. This must be taken into account in the formulation of agricultural policy.’ Today, Norwegian agriculture is barely able to meet the calorie needs of half the population, and it puts us in a vulnerable situation. Taking up more land in Norway, as we wish, will mean a new gift for many abandoned agricultural areas, especially in the West and North Norway, and for all the small and medium-sized uses that exploit the small li and mountain cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral. The Red's proposals therefore go to the heart of Norwegian agricultural policy and lay the foundations for agricultural policy at the root of the actual principles of majority voting on the Stortinget. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1183	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1190	As the representative of Moxnes is probably familiar with, the level of self-sufficiency on a calorie basis is counted in a normal Norwegian diet, and it contains much more than what is produced in Norway. What is a fact is that Norway is close to self-sufficient in the products we can produce in this country. There is some potential on potatoes, fruit and berries, but otherwise we are actually self-sufficient in the products that it is possible to produce in this country. In addition, we have a lot of fish. I almost have to ask the representative of Moxnes whether he has read the proposition, because what is a fact, or at least what it says – unless Moxnes takes his facts from other sources – is that the level of self-sufficiency has risen, especially because more grain is produced. And with several years of reduction in self-sufficiency, Norwegian feed has increased by 14. pst. This Regulation shall enter into force on the So I have to ask the representative of Moxnes, where does he get these facts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1199	Firstly, our proposal is about increasing the supply rate to 50 pst, corrected for imported feed materials, and it is a crucial premise. We also know that if we produce optimally on all available agricultural land, we can increase self-sufficiency by a whole of 6 pst. So there's something to pick up from what we have of available area per day. Clearly, if we are to increase further, we will of course also have to discuss changes in diet to reach an even higher level – so it is clear that those conditions are also taking place. But we have opportunities for what as of today's date is the agricultural area available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1206	As the representative is well-known, many of the feed components are obtained from other countries in order to obtain enough protein for today’s production. There is also a lot of research to try to find protein sources that can feed what we need to have the production we have today. Then my question to the representative of Moxnes is: what is the answer to the fact that Norway does not have enough protein raw materials for its feed production today? Where are we going to get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1211	The principles we advocate, by wanting to reduce dependence on imported power supplies, are about using more of the land, using more of the grass resources we have in Norway, to ensure that we can ensure a production that is sustainable and that also ensures our preparedness – that we do not depend equally on a ship with soya from Brazil every month. It makes us in a vulnerable situation, and it also makes us have to make better use of what we have of areas. So if we do that, we can increase the self-sufficiency rate by a whole of 6 pst. – by making optimal use of available agricultural land. So it's obviously something to pick up in the Norwegian grazing resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1218	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1223	Having followed this debate, I have to note that he reminds me of the previous discussions we have had on the agricultural agreement. What is new is that the rhetoric from the opposition is the same whether the agreement has been concluded or there is a breach of the negotiations. That seems strange to me, because the starting point for this debate is that agriculture and the government, which are negotiating on behalf of the state, are actually some of them both about money use and about equipment through this year's agricultural agreement. We have that based on a common understanding that we can't only engage in agricultural policy debate based on old and sometimes out-of-date rhetoric. Agricultural challenges are too high in several important areas, while opportunities are unlikely to be high in others. Listening to the debate in the hall today gives the impression that the main challenge is that there is too little production stimulus, too little space in use, but the challenge that farmers are now facing is not, it's actually not that they can't translate the goods they've already produced. There's nothing to suggest that there's not enough space in use. On the contrary, everything suggests that production stimulation is so strong that it actually presents the farmers with challenges of being able to translate the goods. It is quite surprising to me that the debate takes on the starting point he makes in this Chamber. Because that means that if we are to achieve better results in agricultural policy, if we are to stimulate more farmers to operate, we need to think about something different. That means that those solutions, one presented just ten years ago, don't work anymore, because we're in another situation right now. We are in a situation where we have to use the economic space that the agricultural agreement has given us for the next year to strengthen production where there are production possibilities. That means we have to strengthen the grain economy. If we are to achieve this, with the result that grain production is growing, it means that it must be less profitable to produce grass in cereals. We need to strengthen the economy on fruits, greens and berries, because there is the market potential for increased Norwegian sales of Norwegian-produced goods. But that means that the best vegetable areas don't have to be stimulated to change, to move livestock production there. This means that one must use the means available to the agricultural agreement to stimulate active use of Norwegian grazing resources. And that's the whole starting point for the deal. Therefore, I also defend this agreement and am pleased that we have concluded it, because he actually addresses the real challenges and opportunities that are in Norwegian agriculture, instead of just dealing with political games. Then I also notice that the opposition has various wishes for later negotiations. When you talk about increasing the use of Norwegian resources, for example, I hear that it's actually saying that there's a higher price for power feed. Yes, we suggested that, and were negotiated by agriculture – just as we did last year and were negotiated by the same parties that are now in charge of a higher feed price this year. It is important to bear in mind when a person is busy with the long-term agricultural practice, that his own political argument should also last more than a few months. The agricultural agreement that has now been concluded facilitates the sensible and balanced development of Norwegian agriculture, mainly because we are strengthening the division of labour. It increases our ability to produce more food and to produce more common good. The use of cultural landscapes and the use of land resources are important elements in it. The structural approach from 2014 is firm, and it has been entirely decisive that we have managed to keep it. For farmers, investments have been made in the light of the policy changes that are taking place. It is best not to be a pawn because of the tearing down of the foundation during the investments they made. That's why it's important to us, and it's solid. Then it is still stimulated, as it has been in previous years, to a greater extent by Norwegian food producers. That's because the Storting has had expectations about it, and because the government has wanted it. It is also important to bear in mind that the agreement that is now concluded reminds us of the state’s supply both to the extent, within the framework and in the device, and we have put in place an agreement. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1236	Time's up. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1244	It's nice to sit and listen to a council of states that so eagerly and that with such invigorating glowing talk about a policy his party really is strongly opposed. That's interesting. There is no doubt that if it had not been for part of the clear constraints of the Stortinget on the desire of the government and the Progress Party to centralise Norwegian agriculture, the situation would have been completely different, and I think we had – had it not the Stortinget had rejected the government's agricultural message last year – been far from an agreement. Does the Council of State agree that what has clearly restricted the government from the majority of the population is one of the fundamental reasons for an agreement this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1249	The answer to the last one is no. It may be time for the Labour Party to clear up its own argument. Two replies from the representative Ingunn Foss clarified the extent to which the question surrounding each Labour Party is based on its professional basis in order to claim that agriculture is centralised. The answer to that so far has been no place, and that is because there is no basis for it either. On the contrary, we have seen that the grain area has grown — a slight drop last year, but it grew the two years before that, for the first time in over ten years. We see that the West strengthens its share of livestock production for the first time during this government – contrary to what happened under the Labour Party leadership that set for eight years before that. It is time to bring the agricultural debate down to its home level, namely a knowledge-based approach, based on the actual evidence on which both the budget topic, the SSB and the proposition are based. Then I think the working party has to adjust the rhetoric more than a little trick.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1254	The working party is very clear that there are some qualities in Norwegian agriculture that need to be taken into account. In order to achieve this, there must also be some regulation, and we have been very clear on those regulations – in contrast to what the government has actually proposed. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has largely received a majority through both the agricultural notification and the impact on the agricultural settlement of the last few years. One specific question is that an overall committee determines that import protection is to be well-functioning. Can the government council now tell Stortinget how he intends to follow up on getting a well-functioning import protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1261	The import protection system is working well, and it will continue to work. We negotiate free trade agreements with our trading partners when it is natural to do so, on the basis of Norwegian interests. We are negotiating the Article 19 agreement with the EU, and the Labour Party has also supported the last negotiated agreement. In doing so, we take care of both the need for agricultural import protection and the greater Norwegian interests that are involved in many sectors of important exports. For agriculture, it is important that Norway is a country with a small but open economy. We collect many of the most important factors for agricultural production, whether it is machine or – partly – feed resources, outside the country’s borders. We need to trade with the outside world, and we will be able to do so within the framework of the import protection on which the government is building its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1266	I must say that the Council of State is rather optimistic if he believes that signing agreements with both organisations would mean that the Centre Party stopped fighting for further growth and development in Norwegian food production for one year. We'll never do that. In his article, the Council of State was rather tall and dark with regard to the guidance of those who had invested. He referred to 2014. But it is part of the agricultural industry that has actually invested, and that has been painfully aware of the government's total lack of foresight, namely those who adhered to the Storting's decision on fur nutrition in 2017. Now the government has turned 180 degrees and will suddenly ban this industry. In total – are the Councils satisfied with the presidencies of Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1273	In sum, I am, yes. Therefore, it is also the case that when the Progress Party, which has been a warm defender of fur animal nutrition, lost that debate in the government extension, there is no overnight change. The industry will receive a seven-year conversion period. There's a bill for the Storting based on it. The Government Platform also announces a compensation scheme that provides care for those who have made investments. So I think that even fur animals, even though they are demanding for many fur producers, show that we have a government that is actually busy that even when difficult decisions are taken, they are taken in a way that makes the economic operators feel biased, even in a controlled liquidation period. The Storting will be presented at a later stage, when they make concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1278	This may be what the world looks like when one sits in his finder's office in the Ministry of Agriculture and thinks about the country, but those who live around the countryside and who experience this policy, I think it's the opposite. My next question is not in the same street, but it has been claimed in the debate that this is the best agricultural settlement in several decades, based on a new scale, simply spent budget crowns, total without taking into account the strong cost growth that the industry has experienced or that is underlying, of 1.4 billion. kr. My question then is: does the Council agree that there is a good measure of whether an agricultural policy is good or bad, just to look at the growth of budgetary support, as the representative Foss did?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1285	I don't think it's wise to look at one factor alone when defining an agricultural policy. Former Minister of Agriculture from the Center Party, Lars Peder Breck, experienced painfully when he defined the agricultural decision that eventually made the Center Party replace him, as a historically good offer. I do not intend to make such mistakes. But at least it shows that history is a little bit different than the Center Party often likes to portray it as. What is the case is that this agricultural policy is good because it actually suggests that agriculture should be able to develop its productions where there are market opportunities. Agricultural production that is not in balance with market developments is an agricultural production that causes large losses of values for the farmer, but also for taxpayers. Therefore, it is important that we achieve a balance in the market when we are on the market and by stimulating production where there are market opportunities. It does the agricultural agreement this year to a greater extent than for a very long time, and so it has been tempting to use nice and beautiful words about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1292	Differences in agricultural policy are well known. I thought I'd give honey to the parties at one point – a point of light – and that applies to the structure of milk. The pyramid for small and medium-sized ones is a real point of light in the agreement as he eventually became. My question is really very specific: is it consistent with government policy? It would be a pleasure if it were. And will it be used in future negotiations, also for other productions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1297	I didn't have the creativity to come up with such an excuse. It's just admitting. But what makes me able to conclude an agreement where it is in? Well, it's just about what's being defined here as a pyramid supplement for small and medium-sized enterprises. It's also an addition that the major dairy farms have made to their production. It's like a non-payment for the cows you already have, and that means that the thresholds that we pointed out in the government's offer were the challenges, are gone from the agreement that now forms the basis for agriculture. How I intend to align agricultural policy with future agricultural policy will only be known to agricultural organisations when I present the supply from the state for next year. Once I've done that, the Storting, as always, will be oriented when I deliver the proposition – hopefully on the basis that we've reached an agreement next year as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1304	An increasing proportion of Norway’s research funds are channelled through EU calls. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that Norway participates and influences the priority, so that we can also apply for R & D funds in organic production and consumption. The EU Commission recognised technology platform TP Organics defines R & D needs in organic production and consumption and has played an important role in the procurement of research funds. Several countries have established national TP Organics. This is an option that Norway can also take advantage of: establishing a R & D forum as a national TP Organics. In Norway we have Norsøg, a national competence centre for organic farming. Will the Council of State take the initiative to strengthen Norsøg’s role by setting up a R & D forum in Norway to work on priorities for funding research, both in Norway and in the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1312	I don't intend to commit myself to giving individual assignments to individuals completely outside of a holistic assessment. It also applies to Norsøg, which is a good bunch in my own home region. It would have been tempting to move there, but I don't think that's how we should act if we want optimal results. On the other hand, I am very busy with the result. This is also why the research profile of the original agricultural supply this year is better than the ultimate result, because we have wanted to prioritise it both through the EU programme and through the research needed to achieve a climate-friendly agriculture, to bring about more technology development in agriculture and to bring in new ideas that also contribute to strengthening the resilience of food production. So that there are possibilities in coming years to look at more approaches to this, when it applies to both eco-production and others, in line with the market opportunities that are in the Norwegian market, I do not exclude in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1319	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1324	Agriculture is important to our country. The production of enough and not least safe food is central to this. The agricultural agreement is important as a basis for industry, but it should also help to ensure that agriculture plays its role in a broader societal perspective. The importance of food security, preparedness, employment and value creation — yes, a living Norway in the districts — is an important part of this. The awareness of these questions has grown in the population — and although I cannot support this claim with statistical figures here, it is at least the clear perception and feeling I have. That is good, and it helps to put agriculture higher on the political agenda. The beginning of the year’s settlement, with high cost growth and a lack of market balance in some productions, such as pigmeat, sheep and lamb, presents challenges. It is therefore also necessary to take action to ensure a better market balance in the future. Among other things, the tightening up of the rules on the concession of pigs would be a contribution. It is important to get in place – and with a timetable for implementation. Otherwise, we believe that the agreement, among other things, knows: grants to areas with operating difficulties and the introduction of a new grant for small and medium-sized dairy farms help at least to adjust the price from previous settlement. For its policy, the Labour Party has created a stepping-up plan for safe food production on Norwegian resources. Climate adaptation is an important part of this, including: concrete things such as digging, drainage, upgrading of watercourses and facilitating investment in and renewal of cereals and cereal storage capacity, as well as investing in research that provides knowledge on the choice of varieties of fruit, berries and cereals that are best adapted to the climate are important measures. It is good that the agricultural agreement prioritises different instruments to contribute to agricultural development in a more environmentally friendly and climate-friendly way. It is important to point out that the agricultural agreement does not work in a vacuum, but in the context of policies and decisions closely linked to agriculture. In this context, I would like to point out the importance of rigorous soil protection and that one succeeds in following up the restrictions on soil re-disposal imposed by the Storing. I would also like to point out, as already mentioned in the debate, that the challenge of predators is significant in several areas of the country, not least in my home country, Hedmark. It is therefore very important that the agreement on predators and wolves is followed up by the government and the Elvesu State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1347	I want to start by thanking the farmers in Norway, who are asking us as consumers to get safe and varied food of good quality. However, agriculture also contributes to the creation and business life of the whole country and plays an important role in the preservation of cultural landscapes and in the continuation of traditional knowledge and culture. It was with great joy that we received the message on 16 May that this year's most beautiful adventures, the agricultural negotiations between the state and agriculture, at the Bondelag of Norway and Norwegian Farmers and Small Farmers' Associations, even with an agreement. It's a pleasure because the Right is busy ending up with the negotiating institute. It is a pleasure to receive feedback from farmers who are satisfied and well pleased with the year's commitment to agriculture. In my home country, Telemark, I feel that there is optimism in agriculture. It is particularly nice that so many young people show an interest in nutrition and will invest in modern gardening. Telemark has a large potential, with a large area and a wide variation before food production. An analysis of value creation — a sort of status report for agriculture in Telemark in the last years — that County and Telemark Agricultural Company presented last year shows that it looks positive for agriculture. There are good production and many who contribute to employment. A growing and investing area in Telemark has its own fruit. Through the «Focus in Focus» project, Telemark has achieved geographical protection – and speciality marks – for Telemarks apples, Telemark plums and Telemarksmoreller. Before 2018, fruit growers in Telemark will expand the area by 700 dekars. It has the potential to increase the production of consumption tiles from Telemark by 1 000 tonnes by 2022. The agricultural agreement is good for Telemark. Through this year's agricultural agreement, farmers have been able to take advantage of specific incentives for small and medium-sized farms, which have been said by farmers to be an important requirement – strengthening welfare schemes in the same way, encouraging their own farms to operate in a difficult and steep way, and investing in the productions for which there are major market opportunities, such as fruit, berries, greens and cereals. At the same time, satisfaction has been expressed that important steps have been taken to deal with the overproduction of sheep and pigs in particular, but also milk. A national steel smelter is also introduced, with $50,000, which is very positive. All of this helps to emphasize that the government is serious when one says that a wanted agriculture in the whole country, and that one looks at the farmer as self-employed, with opportunities and responsibility to organize the operations as he or she himself is best equipped with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1362	In Finnmark, the number of farms has now become so low that we are concerned about whether the farmers that are left are able to maintain large enough production to keep dairies in Alta and Tana and the slaughterhouse in Karasjok with volume in the future. Milk production is the backbone of Finnmark's agriculture. About 95 farms producing milk are left. There are several people who are now selling milk quotas. Also in the sheep industry there are more who stop. The new subsidy introduced to strengthen 15-30 cows' dairy farming has been well received in Finland. We hope it will make more of the medium-sized uses invest in the future. It is important to have a professional environment and to have a service and counselling device in Finnmark. I now want to raise a matter that is incredibly important to follow up. In Finland, farmers feel that veterinary costs have increased, especially outside normal watch time. The veterinarians invoice the farmers for the time they spend driving, in addition to what they receive from the veterinary travel subsidy scheme. This appears to be very unfair for those who live far away from veterinary offices. We have examples of farmers who have had to pay NOK 5000 to cover driving, in addition to the treatment itself, NOK 800 and equipment, NOK 2. We won't end up in a situation where the welfare of animals can become a priority in the districts, for economic reasons. It is an objective that we should have active agriculture across the country. This will also require the framework conditions to ensure that we can meet the objective. The industry notes that the pot for veterinary travel has increased, but doubts that it will change the practice that is in the process of development. Of course, it is necessary to ensure that veterinarians receive income in line with their education, including in the districts, but this must be ensured through state schemes. If you really want agriculture all over the country, this must be followed up with good enough arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1371	This year's agricultural agreement is contrary to the Storting's unanimous decision on the income target in last year's treatment, even when taking account of the market situation and productivity. According to the figures in the national supply, the income frame had to be over 1 320 million. NOK before we could talk about reducing the income gap by one penny. It wasn't like that. The responsibility for this lies alone in the Christian People's Party, which determines the majority of the Storting, and which has given its opinion to the parties in ours. But the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left will do something far worse for agriculture's social work. The social mission of agriculture is to promote the supply of food to the sea. Agricultural policy shall be designed to achieve this. The current supply of agricultural food based on Norwegian soils is steadily weakened because the population is increasing and areas are being reduced, while the level of crop yields is almost unchanged. The water supply is now about 40 pst. Now we have about one and a half full-grown soils per capita. In 2000, there were 2 deaks per capita. The consequence of today's agricultural policy is that we are getting away from the social mission. Norway is growing again. In addition, today’s agricultural policy leads to greater vulnerability for young people entering the industry. Why? Well, debt is increasing radically. The industry now has 65 billion. Indebtedness. A real interest rate of 1,15 pst, calculated this year, is 750 million. kr in increased costs only in this agricultural holding. What happens if the interest rate increases by 3 pst. ? State appropriations for economies of scale are extremely high. When most people become aware of the level, it becomes a critical debate. The EU's proposal for a long-term budget represents a ceiling of DKK 950,000 per use, much lower than that granted for economies of scale in Norway. It's for thought. The appropriations for economies of scale will have to be reduced. It's overproduction of meat. Too much production is being stimulated today by cheap imports of cereals and soya. It will push market prices downwards. Its more one producer, the greater loss. It is already dramatic for sheep and lamb – minus 10 kr per kilogram is not surprising, but quite logical. There are many measures that need to be taken. We need to learn, among other things: of the crisis settlement in 1935, where an increase in the feed price was an important measure to balance the market. Why is Norwegian agriculture removing itself from the community mission and giving rise to increased vulnerability? Well, the government's example is Danish agriculture with the cheapest food possible, an agriculture in Denmark that is in economic, ecological and social crisis. Now we have to raise our eyes, get a new inspiration and look at Switzerland. We have to use the ground up to the shore, have the animals out on pasture, develop new, modern technology adapted to the country and process special natural food that provides security. We have a lot to learn from Switzerland in designing a necessary new agricultural policy. I want to commend the young people in the Alliance for their new agricultural policy, who are engaged, who are involved in the situation, and who strongly oppose today's course. It's uplifting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1386	The President will draw attention to a new amended agenda. It'll be a new case, case no. 14, after case No. 13 today. Case No. 14 will be presented by the Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration on the temporary armament of some police patrols in Oslo. A debate will be proposed immediately after the presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1391	As others, I would like to begin by giving tribute to the parties, the Norwegian Bond team, the Norwegian Farmers' and Small Farmers' Teams and the Government, so that there was an agricultural agreement this year. The parties have worked hard to get this done, and that's good. On behalf of Telemark, I am particularly pleased that agriculture was able to take advantage of several priorities that are good for agriculture in Telemark. I would like to mention in particular the increase in the area grant for fruit and the increase in the district grant for the same production, because it is very good for a county that produces every four apples here in the country. This priority probably inspires very much to continue to bet on a production where there is absolute room for greater volume. I am also very pleased that agriculture has had an impact on a subsidy scheme for small and medium-sized dairy farmers. The type of use is still part of Telemark, and this contribution is a good contribution to that type of use. However, it is a fact that there is a piece left until the income gap between agriculture and other groups is dense. The revenue gap is both serious in terms of getting those who are farmers today to continue to be so, and it is not least serious in terms of recruitment to the industry. It's kind of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little The figures for agriculture show an income increase of NOK 11 700 per year, while other groups have a salary increase for the current year of NOK 19 300. The centre party believes that this development is very unfortunate and that there is a development that just cannot continue. Overproduction is a scourge for the farmer. That's how it has been, and that's how it will be. Overproduction is unwarranted for the reputation of the industry, but above all it is unfortunate because overproduction deprives the farmer of a real income, assuming a market balance. It is the farmer and the industry that are responsible for the total production matching the outlets in the Norwegian market. So it's the farmer who has to bear the cost of overproduction. In order for the industry to be able to reconcile the output of outlets, it must have access to appropriate and accurate control tools. It is a great pity that the government has been less willing to give agriculture that opportunity. We in the Central Party are fully aware that the position here is strongly ideologically based, but the unwillingness of the government is equally regrettable. Fortunately, this year we are witnessing a certain change on the part of the government by the fact that agriculture has been put through to investigate more market and production regulation measures in the pig industry. It's high time. We have a clear expectation that the government will follow up this investigation in a constructive way and that work will result in proposals for effective action. Of course, it is also expected that the industry itself will be involved in this work constructively. It's going to be hard, but it's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1406	We live in a long country where we produce food of the highest quality. But there are wetter, colder, steeper and more remote in us than in many other countries, and the season last year is left as a pale memory of how nature can peck the wheels of agriculture. Agriculture is an important contributor to the largest mainland industry we have. It's about community and culture. It's about business policy and value creation. I like to talk about food policy. Because it's about the milk we get at the store, and everything that happens both before and after it ends up there. It is about caring for the cultural landscape, about tourism and about safe Norwegian food. This week a cook went from Norway to the top of the EM in Bocuse d’Or. It's amazing! Norway is a strong brand. We have one of the cleanest food productions in the world and use little antibiotics and needles. Our products are coveted. If you go to a restaurant in London, you can buy bottled water from Voss. Coffee brewing has been popular for a long time, beer brewing comes after. Food fermentation has been high in the last year, and the interest in food is increasing. People replant kitchen gardens, and the first fraction agriculture saw the light of day on the Iron this year. Apple juice in bottles has got their cleansing. It's about enthusiasm and curiosity. It's about knowledge and learning. It's about having an experience around the food. Food is definitely hot! In the United States, Chile has become the new ketchup. An architect and a musician in Stavanger contacted Kåre Wiig at Umweltgartneriet and wondered if he could not grow habanero so that they could make their own tabascosaus. They had tasted one in Berlin and would try to make one that was even better. The sauce sells well, with good profiling via social media. If you hit the right cook via Instagram, you can get invaluable marketing. This trend is getting stronger. We want local food. We want quality. New Norway and the Matmark scheme show the significance of this. We need to build on our brand, Norwegian food, and promote food policy. Food policy can be diverse, but the main nerve in food policy is a living agriculture throughout the country. It is now necessary to work for lower production costs, efficient use of technology, productivity growth and better market adaptation. At the same time, agriculture must exploit its advantages in terms of quality, food safety, low antibiotic use, good plant and animal health and consumer proximity in order to enhance competitiveness. The right will continue to contribute to a more profitable and forward-looking agriculture throughout the country, by reducing dependence on public support. The agricultural settlement of the year has been an important step in this direction, and we are pleased that the parties reached agreement. We're cheering on the Norwegian farmer!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1429	During the agricultural negotiations of the year, the trade unions have negotiated on average slightly higher incomes for farmers. Unfortunately, they are unable to achieve chronically equal income trends as other groups. There is, therefore, every reason to complain that farmers are once again dependent on income, despite the Storting's decisions on income balancing. However, it must be arduous to negotiate with an agricultural and food minister who has a completely different view of how agriculture should develop in the future than, for example, what the Nordic trade unions have. Food land in Norway is a very scarce non-renewable resource. In Norway it's just 3 pst. of the area that is cultivated, and in the Nordic region, we bring down the statistics. We only have 1.5 pst. area under cultivation. If we're going to compare a little bit with other countries to see how serious it is when we're building up agriculture and getting less land in operation, which we have in many areas in the north: Sweden has 7 pst. cultivated land. The United States has a total of 45 pst., Denmark 62 pst. and United Kingdom 71 pst. cultivated land. So it's incredibly important that we do what we can to use the soil we have, and want to get more food soils in Norway. Enough food, safe food, short-range food and good food are an important part of our quality of life, our safety and our preparedness. However, the negotiations have provided for some principles of market balancing, which may become important for agricultural policy in the future. The release in 2014 has made it imperative to take some action. The review of a structural grant for milk production has been delayed, and I hope this grant can help maintain small and medium-sized dairy farms throughout the country. The introduction of the structural grant is a strong signal from the trade unions that they will have smaller dairy farms as well. They are still the backbone of milk production also in Northern Ireland. It is also good that the increase in the bottomline proposed in the government's offer was stopped. Better welfare schemes and veterinary travel grants also count as good plus points. But it's just to complain again that the income gap measured in dollars has increased, not densely. The framework was tight, so I understand a concept I heard from a trusted farmer: she was forced to be satisfied because the equal of chronic incomes has not been achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1443	There have been a lot of feedback from happy single farmers and from the organisations locally up at my home in Trøndelag after the agricultural settlement of the year. The agreement came into place after a good process. The fact that it happened under the authority of the parties themselves is joyous, and it strengthens the negotiating institute. The right has launched its agricultural network today. Common to us is that agriculture means a lot to employment and value creation in our home countries. We want to promote the peasantry and Norwegian agriculture. I would like to strike a blow for the optimistic, innovative, hardworking and efficient treadmill today. Trøndelag is one of the leading agricultural regions in the country. 20 pst. employment is linked to agriculture. In old Nord-Trøndelag, a whole of five annual works were directly linked to primary production, each generating wood in the secondary and tertiary industries. The trombone layer stands for 20 pst. of food production in Norway and with capacity to increase it by 1,5 pst. Milk is produced corresponding to the consumption of 1.9 million Norwegians, and milk production is a complete value chain. We have Norway's largest pig slaughter, and – as if not enough – every five chickens is a trouser. It is safe to say that agriculture characterizes the whole of the trouser community. Norwegian agricultural advantage is pure nature, pure feed, low infection pressure, healthy herds and low antibiotic use. Norwegian agriculture produces clean, safe high-quality food as a low-buyable market demand. We need to continue to stimulate increased local food processing in a market that is growing rapidly. Traceability and sustainable production are requested. Let's seize those possibilities. The goal must be to increase the export of Norwegian food to new markets. The potential is great. TV 2 recently showed an entry about fenal years on a French kitchen table. So Norwegian traditional food makes success in gourmet France. Today, in the agricultural network, we have shown examples of some of the amazing food produced in our home country. New activities and products are created based on farm history, competence and resource base. Dream layers are local food region no. 1, and we're proud of that, for example. the pioneer The Golden Detour in India, where a number of local food producers have joined forces on common brands and marketing. Frosta has become half of Norway’s kitchen garden. That fruit, vegetables, berries and potatoes are among the winners in this year's settlement, not only people enjoy Frosta, but the whole region of Trøndelag. We have a number of microbreweries, small entrepreneurs, who are cheering over tax cuts in the revised national budget. At the same time, new travel products, destinations based on local advantages are being developed, and the cultural landscape is being maintained. These are just a few examples of why the Right Heirs of Agriculture. I am optimistic on behalf of the future of agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1458	I hope that agriculture notices that the government's representatives speak Norwegian agriculture in a very good way in this room today. It is also gratifying, because some of us remember very well the strong regulations that were in the 1990s, and that there was then little mention of Norwegian agriculture, not especially of the industry itself. I'm also part of that industry and I definitely heard that it wasn't that time. I think there are many opportunities ahead for Norwegian agriculture. Norwegian seafood and fisheries industries are important future industries which should demonstrate that Norwegian agriculture has a similar potential, which has not been exploited. I want us to have an industry that doesn't stagnate, and I want us to now start looking at what's possible and then positioning us, also within the international. We need to openly discuss how we can best facilitate Norwegian agriculture and the food industry in the future, so that they can have a positive development. Because what comes out of what you hear from some representatives in this room, not least from the Center Party, is that in many ways you want to regulate so we have to bring down production. That means that this will be even more regulated. I think we also need to look at the opportunities that lie in the market outside Norway. We need to cultivate the strengths that we have, that many people have set up today, that are just clean food, safe food, traceability and what's in it. There are some possibilities that are clearly there. Then I am clear that the Left believes that we should have a strong import protection. It is particularly important for the agricultural sector to be national. If we now go into the trap that we don't look at the possibilities that are beyond borders, and especially in the Asian market, I think this will in many ways be a kind of 'cannibalization'. Here I think we now have to move. The market is important, we can't regulate ourselves away from it. Centralisation is also mentioned in the debate earlier today. Yes, we who have followed in this debate in recent years have to ask if anyone has had the fights that have been in this room on channelling policy, which is mainly about centralisation, as from last year, when some wanted significantly better opportunities in the zones 1-3 to drive grass-based versus grain, which we have been aware of in the majority who are opposed to the government. I think that's also very important to bring with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1469	Norwegian agricultural policy has four overall objectives. It is food security, agriculture across the country, increased value creation and sustainable agriculture with lower greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, we need to reduce the income gap. It's a job that the state and the farmers have together. Farmers take their responsibility for productivity development and adaptation, and the state provides a framework for this. However, when one listens to parts of the opposition, one can believe that this agreement completely supports these objectives. It is strange that the trade unions with open eyes should have entered into an agreement that does not build on the objectives. Neither have they. As I mentioned in my first post, my neighbour, Karl Petter Vintland, commented on the agreement to me as follows: I am very pleased! Now we're known for being a little bit more subdued and modest. I tried a little bit at my colleague from Bergen, and he said, "Yes, I should have said that, I would have said, it's great, fantastic, legendary, historic, it's better than skill balls!" In southern Sweden, one says that this is a good deal. The peasants believe it, Norwegian farmers and small farmers believe it, the cooperatives believe it, the small farmers believe it, the big farmers believe it. Let me summarize: this is the largest transmission increase in a long, long time. Firstly, it increases food security by improving farmers’ income opportunities. Secondly, it ensures agriculture throughout the country, among other things: by improving support for smaller dairy farms, which are the backbone of agriculture in many districts. Thirdly, it enhances value creation through better market matching, inter alia: by providing new tools. Fourth, it improves sustainability and reduces climate pressure by emphasising new climate action. Finally, it will, together with the sum of the previous settlements that this government has governed, provide better income development for farmers than for society else. In this settlement, the parties agree that: ‘there is a challenging market situation for several livestock productions, and the assumption that the income targets of agriculture are currently not met and that the improvement of the market balance is essential for good income development’. Net income may not be adopted in settlement. The scheme provides a framework for the formation of income and results follow market developments, cost developments and a number of other decisions that individual farmers take on their farm every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1485	Emerging is one of our most important resources to increase food production in Norway. We have a long tradition of grazing and sewing. The use of forest and mountain areas as feed materials is good for animal welfare and resource use, and many farmers depend entirely on being able to send their animals to pasture in the summer. However, in many parts of Norway it is now very difficult to exploit land use because of an unsustainably high predatory pressure. In Hedmark, the population of wolves is much higher than the agreed population of the Storting, which is painfully experienced by farmers when they find animals taken by wolves. Status is today, Thursday morning: at least 18 lambs are taken by the wolf in Tynset and Tolga in the last days. It's outside the wolf zone. At least 30 animals have been taken in Sølendalen and in Rendalen. It's also outside the wolf zone. The pasture season is well under way. There's going to be more attacks. There's every reason to fear a new bloodbath, as we've seen in the past summer. When we get the final loss figures after the end of the grazing season, we can say that this was an alert massacre, because both Minister of Agriculture Dale and Minister of the Environment Elvesuen have received strong warnings and know well what is going on, but still chooses not to do anything. In the areas that are now experiencing wolf attacks, grazing was first applied for moulting permits on the wolf already on 26 April, when a wolf was observed in Teldalen, but the Environment Directorate rejected and showed, among other things, that. that there was a long time to graze, and that there was no desire to risk the killing of genetically important wolves. At the same time, the Minister for the Environment claims that he commits to effective extraction and prevention of predatory damage. It is not consistent with the policy pursued by the government in practice. The size has clearly taken the view that the wolf zone should not be a wolf reserve. Nevertheless, Ola Elvestuen argues that the zone should be a haven for predators. Nevertheless, it is now set not to extract wolves within the wolf zone in the winter licence hunt. This is not in line with the decision of the Storting. The size has also adopted a clear stocking target of 4-6 young wolves per year. After extracting the wolf in winter, we now still have 8.5 young people. For every day that this situation continues, the government's policy is contrary to the decision of the Storting. It is to be strongly provoked by the fact that Dale, who claims to be for more foreigners, sits in political quarters and talks about it, while Elvestuen's policy, the government's policy, that is, the most possible wolf, gets herring free in Norwegian forests and mountain areas. I'd like to ask Dale to answer the Storting whether he thinks Elvessuen's predatory policy is acceptable, and if not, how the government will ensure that it is allowed to trap wolves, so that we come within the agreed stockpiles of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1500	We are very pleased that the agricultural organisations and the state reached agreement on the agricultural settlement for 2018. We want Norwegian food on the Norwegian table, and one of the main arguments for Norwegian food is to have control of food safety. The World Health Organisation concluded in 2012 that antibiotic resistance is one of the major health threats facing the world. At the same time, we see a stagnation in the development of new antimicrobials. As a result, the mildest infections in the future may become fatal, and individuals with reduced immune response, such as cancer patients or newborns, are particularly vulnerable. Antibiotic-resistant bacteria kill 25 000 people in Europe every year. Knowledge of what promotes antibiotic resistance is important. In 2015, the Government adopted a national strategy against antibiotic resistance with overall objectives of reducing the total use of antibiotics, contributing to better use and increasing knowledge of what drives the development and dissemination of resistance. From 2012, there is a reduction in total human consumption of 13 pst. On the other hand, we see increased use of broad-spectrum funds. Using broad-spectrum antibiotics for safety is like shooting sparrows with cannons. It can increase the selection of resistant microbes by shifting the normal flora. It requires increased awareness in the health sector and among the majority of people. Agriculture has taken the challenge seriously. Norwegian agriculture has the lowest use of antibiotics in agriculture across Europe. Strong, responsible farmers and veterinarians and good cooperation between industry and authorities are crucial factors for the good situation in Norway. But we must not rest. Following the government’s national strategy against antibiotic resistance for the period 2015-2020, a separate action plan for action against antibiotic resistance in agriculture was established in 2016. The important sectoral objective of agriculture is to reduce the consumption of antibiotics for farmed animals by 10 pst. by 2020 and prevent the establishment of the resistant bacteria LA-MRSA in Norwegian pig holdings. The fight against antibiotic resistance is also high on the Nordic Council of Ministers’ priority list. The Nordic ministers responsible for health, food and agriculture agreed in 2017 to form a common front to address key issues related to just antibiotic resistance. Norway shall be a driving force in international efforts to strengthen access, responsible use and development of new antibiotics, vaccines and improved diagnostic aids and steps to increase research efforts towards antibiotic resistance. Only increased efforts, awareness and international cooperation can limit the presence of antibiotic resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1515	I have had a little fun in advance trying to guess who would first blame the weather for the success of Norwegian agriculture. I have to admit that I didn't think it was the Labour Party representative who was going to run away with that winner, but congratulations. I guess that also means that if things are going bad, maybe that's what you can blame for. I hope that we can essentially discuss politics and not be. The center party and SV both chatted in different ways about the math skills of Right Representatives – that you had to find out the calculator, and that we obviously couldn't figure out the percentage, because a percentage increase could never close the gap. I don't want to hustle over my co-representatives' lack of math skills, but of course, a percentage increase could close a gap. Given that a percentage increase is higher than the other increases, it will span a gap over time. If you want to go further, you could say that in dollars is, for example, NOK 33 000 10 pst. of NOK 330000. So the percent will be either way. The reason I asked for the floor was that in the reply I asked the representative of the Central Party, Pollestad, if he maintained that the state's offer was an attack on Norwegian food production. He did, and he repeated it and reinforced it. I think it's nice. In all the years 2005–2013, when the Ministers of the Ministry of Agriculture named Riis-Johansen, Breck and Vedum, and all were from the Central Party, the distance between the requirement and the offer was much greater than this year. At the time, there was no attack on Norwegian food production. The same years were the distance between the offer and the result much, much larger. It hasn't been smaller since 2005 – the fact that it was smaller in 2012, but I think it's a year since the Center Party has torn out its calendar. Then the attack is turned back, we get to know, and we've been able to learn what the price of an attack is. That's 100 million. kr, or if we're going to use the percentage: 10 pst. The frame went from 1 billion. DKK to SEK 1.1 billion. NOK, and as a result the attack has been turned back. I think the only attack that has been presented here is the attack on healthy farmland, because: the organizations are satisfied, and the farmers are satisfied. The feedback from those I'm talking to in my county of Westfold, a good agricultural company, is that you're reasonably satisfied with the agreement. The agreement is signed by the farmers' organisations, and it is a pity that the representative from the Central Party cannot say that it was too hard to call it an attack on Norwegian food production, when we see how the result was, and that it is closer to the offer than some of the times under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1526	In my region of North Hordland, the typical use of the garden consists of a dough here and a dough there, with scattered outcrops, some forest doughs and if one is lucky a couple of fine beans that are suitable for sledgehammers. It's these curtains that form our history, which have formed the basis for busting and which have also given us our distinctive character and many of our traditions. The twin berry and garden products are a good example of such a small Western guard where the challenges also provide opportunities – given creativity and progress. A fruit garden in North Hordland does not have 75 targets and 170 pickers. Here was the starting point for a sheep herd that would have required large investments to increase animal husbandry. The farmer needed an additional industry. Bears, bakery and garden store were the solution that will be able to open in the long run to invest in the necessary operational buildings and expand animal husbandry whenever desired. We must take care of the uniqueness of Norwegian food production. At the same time, there is a need for adaptation. As a self-employed person, there must be both opportunities and responsibilities to organise operations in such a way that the farmer himself is best placed to do. We need to change in order to maintain, and therefore we want to continue modernising in order to create a viable agriculture that facilitates increased food production and profitable operation throughout the country. We see that investment rates are increasing, investment growth is larger than in other industries, the number of deaths is decreasing, and soil protection is strengthened – this is in addition to spending on forestry and forestry. I think of the Western farmer as perhaps the most creative, because it has natural circumstances required. I believe that this statement gives rise to optimism and a threat to the future of agriculture in the West as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1541	In addition to raising our eyes and looking at Switzerland, we also have to make another settlement. It is a settlement with the culture of production activism that is now tone-setting among young people as so-called rates for the future. Why? Indeed, production activism gives rise to overproduction and falling income. This is nothing new. In Norway’s Bondelag’s recognised document on balancing, it is said that continued unconditional production activity will turn agriculture into an economic battlefield. We must therefore get rid of the stimulation of this productive activism, and this is not just the responsibility of the Storting, it is not least the industry. Government and Christian People's Party have comments on a new income target this year. They will. «precise that the income target is a measure of the development of income and not a measure of the level of income». I just want to make it clear that for the Central Party, this is a breach of the equality objective between agricultural work and other work that we have had from the very beginning of the creation of the party in 1920. The balancing objective has always been linked to income levels, to agricultural labour costs per year versus income for other work per year. It's a fact: Government and Christian People's Party will no longer compare on level. It's going to create a debate in the future, and I'm looking forward to that debate. The total calculation is currently the basic material for the budget item settings, cf. what comes from Technical Calculation Committee. The government says that, in the country's opinion, this material cannot be used to say anything about income levels, and so now we are not going to have income levels in the income targets either. To sum up only: equalisation of agricultural work with other work is linked to income per annual work linked to level. Each year's negotiations relate to changes, to developments, but that is the central level. If it's difficult with the government's material, I can give you some advice. Then you can look at the operational reviews, develop the operational reviews and get sufficient width of the material with productions, areas and sizes, and then figure out how much it represents in relation to annual work, and then form an average income base of SEK per year — and in the operational reviews you get a right level of revenue for rational driven use. Then we can be back to the starting point with Håkon Five with the operations reviews in 1911, 107 years back in time. This is an important debate, but we're not going beyond the level, and this is an approximation that the government parties and the Christian People's Party are now trying to get into the negotiations. It must be taken into consideration on a broad scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1561	High cost growth, overproduction and market imbalance made the start of the year’s agricultural negotiations more demanding than for a long time. It was therefore particularly gratifying to note that the parties reached an agreement and signed an agricultural agreement on 16 May. The agreement takes account of Storting’s overall agricultural objectives and strengthens Norwegian food production with active use of the whole country’s resources. Building on the global sustainability goals also includes organic food production. But more people seem to have a lower awareness of what this really is and where the challenges lie. So it's very good that we now have an ecological strategy. Today the demand for organically produced food is very high, but probably much of this demand for imports is met. Nevertheless, we see that there are some actors who are doing well in the market through the good marketing of the products. From my own region, I can mention the Rørosmeieriet as a very good example. Then it's important to document whether the increased turnover is covered by imports, and now we're going to get better statistics on this. One of the objectives of organic food production is to contribute as a spearhead for increased animal welfare, good plant health and enhanced reputation for Norwegian food. Although we score high on these factors in Norwegian food production today, we need someone to push us forward. And I think Norwegian organic food production has obvious market opportunities. We know that salmon industry exports almost 16 000 tonnes of organic salmon to the world market annually. This shows that Norwegian food production can be successfully exported. Food that can be sold with added value, whether in terms of culture, history, ethics or animal welfare, should be able to take advantage of a diverse and growing world market. Here we must dare to believe and dry to bet and help to facilitate the best possible framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1576	As so many times before, much of the agricultural policy debate ends in income target discussions. I would like to pay tribute to the agricultural organisations for the fact that they show in this year's agricultural agreement that it is possible to enter into an agreement where a non-unilateral pursuit of the income target is the sole source of success in the agricultural policy. It is quite important, because a unilateral follow-up to the income target, as individual representatives have called for here today, would not solve the agricultural challenges, it would rather strengthen them. So if we see developments from 2015 to 2017, the market income in agriculture is reduced by 1.4 billion. kr. This means that the increase in transfers that the Storting would have given to agriculture in the last few years is one of the failures in market incomes. This means that there must be a balance in total stimulus, and that it can be better for the farmer to spend less money on the agricultural agreement than that one adds too much. There is a discussion that Stortinget should also take, because it is quite right that the representative Lundteigen now observed that there is a number that specifies how the income target should be understood in this setting. It is quite important because it takes into account the actual situation of agriculture. So it's going to be 2 pst. overproduction, if we call it, in the sheep and small ruminants market results in a failure in the wholesale price of 25 pst. So it doesn't help to add more to transfers to sheep producers if it only leads to a fall in the wholesale price; it doesn't make a better economy for the farmer. And that's the equation that agriculture has actually taken into account in this year's negotiations. It seemed to me that agriculture is honoured, and I thought it was high time that it was also underlined by this pulpit, because it is not possible to provide self-employed farmers with higher incomes than they are willing to work for. And agricultural production is so high in many productions that additional incentives through income will reinforce the overproduction challenges that are there. For this reason, it is important that the Storting should also take into account for later years that the balance found between the country and the agricultural organisations here is not because a farmer does not enjoy income, but because one looks at what actually works and does not work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1587	It has been an interesting discussion, and I am glad that there are so many parties that have been occupied with Norwegian food production. It seems to me sincere. I think it's a good thing for Norwegian agriculture to get an agreement. The district has been somewhat strengthened, and we have got something for less use, but I have to say that I react when the government party claims that there has been no centralization. We come from each of our counties. Who is it that in their own countries doesn't see that it's internally been a very centralization? We see that one collects more and more, there's less consistency between the production around the state and the area that you're going to use. Major municipalities are the last example – end of milk production. That's what one of them looks like. Toril Eidsheim had a good idea about Western agriculture, but I think one must have another medicine if one is going to be able to lift it. The market situation was highlighted. He is demanding, but I want to claim that there is a planned overproduction from this government. They have double chicken concessions, greatly increase the milk quota limit and remove the ceiling on all transfers. Then it's not so hard to think that one gets overproduction. You can choose to say that you cannot increase your income because your production is too large, or you can actually choose to have a roof. It's a little surprising by this government, which is so busy with the market, because had a roof on the stock market, it would have been a far greater incentive for farmers with a little overproduction, and thus a drop in price, to reduce the number of animals anything. Here, an actual market could have been used to control production, one could have actually achieved an increase in income without a large overproduction, and one would have stimulated more use of own land. Some have pointed out that exports can and should be part of Norwegian agriculture. I believe that Norwegian agriculture should primarily deliver for the home market. It's not the same as not looking at the niches that can be there. Of course, if someone wants to have high-quality products from Norway, we should try to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1599	I'm proud to be a farmer, I'm proud of the Norwegian farmer gets to, but I'm quite tired of the rhetoric in the agricultural debate. Some representatives from the red-green parties are more concerned with getting low-cost political points and painting a dark picture of how we feel in the community than actually describing reality. I have to admit that when the old industrial party, the Labour Party – often represented by high gentlemen from the city – tries to present itself as the solution for agriculture, I can't help smiling a little, for politicians who first construct a conflict, and then exploit it for their benefit, there are quite a lot of them a day. There's a conflict between us in the countryside and those in the city, or between agriculture and them in government, and we're going to tear ourselves apart – for 'em', it's not going to be any better than us. It's a little bit in the Norwegian People's Party. Is it just rhetoric, or is what they're actually saying? Is it as dark in the village as some in this hall want to convey? And do we get farmers to anything at all? Are we the only group of traders in Norway that are entirely on the ground? Well, at least our income development has been strengthened. Farming is reduced under this government than, for example, – to take a random game – when the Center Party was put in government. This agreement increases the State budget by 770 million. kr., the largest in decades. With better market alignment, the agreement facilitates a 20 pst increase in income. under this Government. Otherwise, there is an increase of 13 pst. Agricultural production growth has been stronger under this government than under the previous one, and agricultural profitability is growing. According to the Workers' Party, it's because of the weather. That's what I'm talking I'm sure there's no shock that I think the blue-green government's policy is good for us farmers, and that this settlement is very, very good. But it's actually not the government I want to highlight here today. It's the Norwegian farmer. Farmers are business people, hardworking business people. Sitting on the Stortinget isn't a Sunday school either, but the effort of Norwegian farmers is formidable in poultry, on land and out in the woods. Too hard-working business people are good at this agreement. The agreement prioritises the production with market potential. Economically, cereals, fruit, vegetables, berries and potatoes are the winners of this year's agricultural settlement. In fact, in these productions, the country’s offer was higher than that of agriculture. The strawberry farmers in Westfold greet and thank you. Finally, it is a myth that the aim of all farmers is to live on subsidies. Most peasants want to feed. The Government's objective is to maximise the input of farmers' income into the market. It facilitates the agreement. It's good for agriculture, it's good for farmers, and it's good for consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1610	The structural changes adopted in 2014 were implemented to facilitate the living of agricultural labour. Furthermore, the aim was to increase production in most sectors. It means that it must pay to expand production. Since 2014, the framework for minor use has been strengthened without affecting major uses. Many people have invested and adapted to today's legislation, and a reintroduction of the roof, for which the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are in charge, will make it very difficult for those who have invested large sums, especially the young people who have invested on this basis, and on whom we are totally dependent in the future. This agricultural settlement follows up the processing of the agricultural notification by the Stortingen. It facilitates increased production in sectors with market opportunities, facilitates better use of small and medium-sized enterprises, and takes into account areas of operational difficulties. It further stimulates the use of land resources and significantly strengthens welfare systems. The effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is strengthened and significantly more money is allocated to strengthen the knowledge base. The revenue target is followed up and the objective is balanced against other considerations, including: because the market fitment assumption of the Storting is currently not met. So I would like to comment a little bit on what has emerged here in the debate. Nor can the representative Bjørke prove that this government's policy has been centralising. I just want to remind you that in the Central Party's own reign food production went down, investments went down, more land went out of business, and fewer young people would bet on agriculture. It may be that the representative of the Central Party, like the representative of the Workers' Party, Sweden, says no, they can't document it, but they have an opinion and a sense of it. It's quite alarming from this pulpit. So to the representative Pollestad, who mentioned my visit to the Jären in a little rosy order, where the extension of the concession limit for chicken had a centralizing effect. What he didn't tell me about was that he also took me to his own family at Hå Rugeri, who in the course of the year will hatch chicken number 300 million, where they from 1996 have had an adventurous growth, and where they also say that more important than the volume is the quality. The hatchery, which hatches every three Norwegian chickens, is considered to be one of the foremost in the world. So I ask the representative Pollestad to bring a greeting to his brother Arild Pollestad – I thought the visit to Hå Rugeri was a great visit when I was at Jären.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1627	Agriculture is an important industry for many regions, and the Progress Party wants to stimulate efficient production of safe and good Norwegian food. It is important to strengthen the competitiveness of the industry and to facilitate an even more market-oriented industry. Norway has a location where industry needs framework conditions that balance differences in climatic and structural conditions, but there are also conditions that need to be exploited much better. They are among them, and the Advance Party wants them to be exploited much better than they are today. We have land scarcity on inland land, but large land resources that are not used. Farm animals are the way to use these feed resources for food production and are an important resource in the production of lambs and cattle. It was claimed today that we have surplus lamb meat. I'm not so sure. I want to claim that we eat a little too little of that. We have an amazing product in our lamb meat. It consists of two fenal years and two pinned meat sides that are largely consumed in Christmas and Easter, and then we eat sheep's cabbage from the books in the autumn. Otherwise, the shops are often chemically purified for lamb. The whole product has been converted into a seasonal product. Then you can't be left with any other impression than that there's something wrong with the system and that the market regulation doesn't work. Is it too simple and too cheap to use a regulatory warehouse? The cost today lies alone with the farmer. If we are to succeed in food production in Norway, we need to exploit it. Then we have to move the discussion away from how we're going to bring down the production, and lift it up to discuss how we can get up the consumption. I hope the manufacturers will take this issue with them and take part in a look at system changes that can raise Norwegian sales of quality meat from lambs. I note today's discussion about the size of use and how so-called agricultural-friendly batches are fighting against the will of increased investment and production. This will affect the future of the industry, and not least that will affect young people. Government policy has led to great optimism in industry, and it is important to take it further. If it is not possible to be a full-time farmer – living off the farm – it will be very difficult to recruit. The solution to these challenges is not to pay more for less, but to pursue a policy that can exploit the potential of the farm, establish cost-effective production, use available technologies and introduce greater market adaptation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1642	The previous talk was about our grazing resources. There is no doubt that we must use our grazing resources. We only have 3 pst. the area under cultivation in Norway. It's especially important for the small business. It is also important for cattle industry and for milk production in large parts of the country. But now we are still in a difficult and desperate situation because of predators, which the Council of State chose not to comment on at all in its article. So I'll try again. As far as I know, the Council of State has almost unlimited speaking time. The zoning policy for wolves means that only a small proportion of Norway’s population have to tax by the fact that there is a political majority in Norway to reintroduce the Finnish-Russian wolf into Norwegian nature. Our ability to exploit the land resources of some of the parts of Norway where there are best assumptions to do just that is seriously undermines our ability to do so. When it comes to losing animals to wolves or other predators, it is primarily incredibly sad and demanding to find the animals, but it also has a lot to say about the possibility of creating a nutritional basis for dealing with animals. You don't just lose animals you're happy with, you lose breeding material. It becomes impossible to plan the production in the long term, and that makes the situation very, very difficult for the farmers. I would like to believe that the Minister of Agriculture thinks that what is now happening is an unsustainable situation, because I can never imagine that an agricultural minister who sincerely believes that we are going to use our land resources, and who is calling for more grazing, at the same time believes that the predatory pressure we are now experiencing is sensible. But I'm really starting to fool, because right now it's a fact that Environment Minister Ola Elvestuen gets to run the wolf policy, and thus the field policy, for large parts of the country and our ability to exploit the land resources just as he likes, without the Minister of Agriculture lifting a finger or saying against him. That is why I would once again urge the Minister of Agriculture to answer the Storting whether he thinks the Elvessuan wolf policy is reasonable, whether it is acceptable. If the answer is no, I would very much like to hear how the government has intended to proceed to ensure that we reach the agreed stock targets for wolves, and that the terrible situation that is going to be the case this summer is averted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1653	I would also recommend that the Minister of Agriculture respond to the questions raised about the policy of predatory game. But I want to talk about something else, namely our climate challenges, because they also apply in agriculture. If the difficult harvest in the East last year, with a lot of rain, and the very demanding, warm and dry summer this year is due to man-made changes in the climate, no one can give a 100pst. Sure answer, but we can't in any way rule it out. The farmer is the first to notice the changes in the climate. Most farmers now feel that they have been more at extremes, i.e. that the same weather type sits over time, and that the period then had made it possible to carry out agricultural work becomes shorter. Unfortunately, climate change will not facilitate food production in Norway, most likely on the contrary. It obviously worries the farmer, but it should worry a lot more, because it's all about our ability to self-sufficiency at the end. The centre party will favour agriculture with the offensive attitude of the industry towards more climate-friendly food production and the measures it is working with. In parallel, a job is also done in agriculture by adapting Norwegian food production to a different climate from what we are used to. It is important that this job continues – it is important that you do it. On the one hand, research and development are involved, and on the other hand, measures are taken on individual farms. Agriculture itself has proposed the creation of a climate fund with tax advantages, using a forest fund model. The majority of the Committee initially supported the examination of such a model. It is very disappointing that the Christian People's Party draws support for this proposal, and with that opportunity to investigate the establishment of climate funds. The consequences of climate change will also be challenging in Norway. Adapting Norwegian agriculture to a changing climate will have a major impact on our ability to self-supply food. This work must have a high priority in the future. It will require a high level of interaction between authorities and industry. I – and the Central Party – expect the government to actively engage in dialogue with the agricultural industry in order to develop measures that can improve food production to cope with a changing climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1668	The Council of State emphasises its criticism of the criticism of the opposition and our rhetoric. In short, it is related to the fact that the Council of State and the opposition are not from the same party and do not have the same understanding of reality. It is good that the agreement has been concluded. If there is someone who is solution-oriented in this context, it is the farmers – and thank you and the law for that. The farmers guarantee us what we're dependent on, that's food in the stomach. Governments focus on the consensus between government and agricultural organisations. It is a good thing that agriculture has an impact on the government. If not, Norwegian food production would have been shaved. The use of funds for agriculture and food production shall be a strong priority. There is a broad consensus that we need Norwegian food, and then we must have motivated farmers with fair working conditions. Agricultural income development must continue to work to strengthen other groups in society. Input factors such as electricity and fuel increase as much in the price of farmers as for other groups. The representative Westgaard-Halle talks about a constructed division in politics and rhetoric. When it comes to income and net earnings in industry, it is a reality that the development of agriculture is a horse head behind other occupations, and for good food producers in Westfold it may be wise to travel on study trips to the country and learn about operating conditions elsewhere. We need all the farmers, all the earth and the whole country – food production near people, based on the resources we have. We have to have the whole food chain, both vegetables, cereals, milk and meat, and what we have to do to produce. It involves several major themes we should discuss much more – such as soil protection, landslides, predators, antibiotic resistance, animal welfare, the working conditions and welfare of farmers, not forgetting the education and recruitment of young farmers. What is the future of those who go into agriculture today? This is about the security we have in our country, both as citizens and as people in common. It is about the prospects and the preparedness that we can live on in the future. I'm glad that the Council of State is focusing on the field, because we have a lot of it in our country, and we have to work on it to manage and take care of it. It's also about all the other big issues that I drew out, because it's the big relationship that determines whether you can be a food producer, and whether you can grow the good, high-quality food we have here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1681	We have a great deal to thank for the Norwegian farmers – from the fishing farmer in the West, who, through the plentiful corps, is drifting in rotation to feed all year round, to the farmer we have today, who is a very important part of the business we have in Norway. However, the safety we have through Norwegian food production is also important. He saw his mark on what Norway we have, where our districts and towns are largely influenced by Norwegian agriculture. But it hasn't been, and isn't, just as easy to run agriculture in all of Norway. Therefore, I am particularly pleased with this statement, which has greatly strengthened the basis for the geographical distribution of production. In addition to improving the grain economy, we have strengthened the profitability of grass-based livestock farming in the districts and in areas of operational difficulties, and there is a clear strengthening of the incentive to benefit from all types of grazing, including pasture. We prioritise grain production in good grain and grazing and grass production in the districts, in line with the Jeløya platform. This priority also strengthens the basis for the geographical distribution of production so that one can have livestock production based on grass and grazing in the districts and throughout the country. The agreement prioritizes agriculture in the West, and through a number of measures in the support schemes, the new agreement is more targeted, to prevent the area from being decommissioned and growing again. This entry indicates with all clarity that we have wished to use Norway as a whole. Norwegian agriculture needs large and small uses, precisely because Norwegian agriculture is distributed across our diverse countries, with hills, lilies, mountains and valleys. Finally, as a member of the Energy and Environment Committee, I am very pleased with the focus that is now on climate and the environment. We feel that the Norwegian farmer also wants to contribute and participate in the environmental promise to which other industries contribute. Therefore, the measures included in the agreement are important. The government is transforming agricultural policy in a more climate-friendly direction through a strong commitment to climate and environmental instruments and organic farming. Financing climate-smart agriculture and research to strengthen knowledge of climate is and will be an important contribution. For example, I hope that the farmer down on the Jären, who now has several years of his life – time, forces and crowns – will create bio-installations for biogas production based on own waste, finally find that this work is being sold out. The environmental effort in agriculture, together with the rest of the environmental effort this government is making, will give rise to this challenge. I just want to say as he said, the farmer in the neighboring municipality: there was a good indication, this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1692	I'm busy using the field resource to produce food. I can therefore promise the Stortinget that the Council of State Ola Elvestuen, my good colleague, has no own wolf policy, he has government policy, and, as far as I have seen, he has not been on the outside of him in a single matter, nor in recent times. That's the whole point of my input into this discussion. I recognise that the policy adopted by the Stortinget in both the agreement on predators and the agreement on wolves is a clear understanding that grazing animals are a priority in pasture-priority areas, and must therefore be given rapid distillation in such areas. We spent a lot of the last year strengthening the tools we have for, for example. wolf withdrawals, as a result of the situation we got on Hadeland last year. This means that the government will follow up the decisions taken by the Storting in connection with it. I can understand that sheep farmers who experience loss find it provocative that a lot of wolf puppies in their hands. I always choose to pat on the lamb first. But that doesn't mean that in itself it's challenging, and I want to underline that from here. It is about the fact that Stortinget has decided that we will have wolves in Norwegian nature; we will have 4-6 young people per year. It requires the Minister for Climate and Environment to do his job and make sure that that part of the administration also works well. So, in fact, the balance in that must also be borne by agriculture. However, it is a matter of having a potential to be better in administration – not only in the case of wolves, but also in the case of other predators. We know that it has been imperative to take out the wolf outside periods of track snow. We know there's a low fall percentage for you guys. I do not overlook the fact that it is still possible to improve the results of hunting for such populations. But to do this – which is not about what kind of decisions are taken, but about an image that has been taken – is to make a big discussion in the Stortinge, is to make the whole discussion a bear service. After all, this is all about efficient management in pasture-priority areas. I have said this before in this room, and I have said it many times outside: the stuttering can still assume that in pasture-priority areas the grazing animals are priority, in line with the predatory agreement and the wolf settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1701	The representative Sem-Jacobsen questioned whether climate change is man-made or not, and then she let the answer hang in the air. It's not particularly surprising. The centre party has undoubtedly taken the throne as the largest climate-enemy of the Storting. The fact that they are now actually questioning whether climate change is man-made or not is nevertheless frightening. The blue-green government disagrees with the Center Party in it. Climate change is man-made, and agriculture contributes. But agriculture is also an important part of the solution. This is precisely why it is so gratifying that environmental and climate action is strengthened in this resolution, both through the financing of climate-smart agriculture and through research to strengthen knowledge of the climate. The peasants go in front – the centre party hangs behind. To the representative Strand of the Senterpartiet, who thought that even if we succeed in Westfold, it is quite terrible in the rest of the country, and that we who live in Westfold must get out of the county. It's just this kind of rhetoric I've been aiming for in my post – that kind of black paint. That the places where the farmers succeed should be trampled on and undermined, I feel sad. I think we should raise agriculture. We're going to lift them as successful, and we're going to be proud of the Norwegian farmer and what we actually get into Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1708	The energy and environmental fractions are suspended during the last round of the debate. That's important, because there's no reason why we're going to doubt the willingness to participate in both the green shift and the reduction of climate change. We have a Norwegian agriculture that I feel is very offensive about taking the opportunities that are now being created. In my region, around Gjøvik and on Toten in West Uppland, the growth in the use of bioenergy has been 100 pst in the last 30 years. It is completely in line with the growth of bioenergy in Denmark, Finland and Sweden, and they have not had oil and gas to lean on. It shows that there are regions in Norway that use the opportunities available. Twelve farms in Uppland are now trying out an energy and climate calculator. We will then have a basis for looking at what action we should give priority to. It should be rolled out gradually on several farms. Many people want to become energy farmers. There's a lot of winning-win in it. We can make better use of the sun. It facilitates the step-by-step adoption of measures even faster and to a greater extent in the settlement currently available. The subsidy schemes for solar cells on the agricultural roof are still a little too weak for them to take the chance, nor should that energy be used to drive milk carousels or in the first instance. But it's going to produce biogas to put on either a gas turbine or to replace heat needs. Bio-fertilisers can thus be created and bio-coal can also be created in the long term. We need to expand the biogas plant structure to a greater extent – large and small – and combine it with solar cells on the roof. It provides an infrastructure to send it out on the mains power supply. Creating battery capacity for those transformers and measuring systems, and digitizing the farm, is very good. It is also good to produce more own electricity and heat. We're on our way into a precision agriculture that requires both energy and digitisation. Agriculture is able to produce a lot of the raw materials for it itself. The construction of the wood also needs to spread even more. Many are on their way to it, and the big industrial players are in full swing. Norwegian Wood Cluster around Mjösa is in good shape, but when NTNU was to recruit a professor in solid wood, they had to go to Austria to find him, in the same way that we import quite a lot of solid wood elements to build solid wood houses in Norway from Austria. So we also have a job to do with keeping knowledge and research involved. It is therefore important that we are not overly harsh in the lab towards agriculture, which needs to train and try out what measures they are going to contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1725	I would like to thank the Council of State for its contributions and for its appearance as far more sympathetic and understanding than its colleague. I would also encourage Dale to take a serious talk with Elvesuen. This is not about which pictures are taken. This is about how the government follows up the Storting decision. If, as Dale says, Elvestuen actually follows the government's policy, has it become government policy that one should have 8.5 young wolves instead of the goal set by the Storting, which is 4-6? Has it become the government's policy that there should be no license hunt within the wolf zone, even though there is too much wolf, as it is now set on? The electrician said to TV 2 Tuesday morning that it was absolutely right that there should be predators only in the wolf zone, while the Stortinget has been clear that the wolf zone should not be a wolf reserve. Has it now, after the Left entered the government, become government policy that the wolf zone is a reserve? It remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1733	I am not going to take the floor for the last speaker, because I think there can be a long debate today. The use of Norwegian soil resources in the production of food in Norway has for a long time been replaced by imported electricity. It's a fact. Volumes have been focused on low levels of self-sufficiency, re-growth, over-production, which have weakened the economy, subsidy dependence and agricultural debt growth. This is a fact. We see it, and that makes agriculture quite vulnerable to the future. Several speakers have pointed this out, among others: if the interest rate rise is coming, and that makes it pretty sure. The big question for me and SV is: what do we want with Norwegian agriculture? That's what's the key question. Is it just volume? I don't think there's any volume that's the point. We can't bet on quantity in Norway. We don't have a chance in the international situation, even though Norwegian agriculture is in some way protected. That's quality. What do we want with Norwegian agriculture? What role should food production play, and how should we manage the use of soil in society? It is the biggest task of Storting to ask that question, and it is also the negotiating institute's most important task, in my opinion. Here, self-storage must be absolutely central. In that case, the arrangements for the establishment of the agricultural holding are quite essential. There is also the praising of power feed, the stimulation of roughage, etc. We have tools. We can use it if you want. I want to signal that I have great sympathy for Red's proposal to increase the self-storage rate to 50 pst. That's a good goal in the first place, and that means, of course, that you subtract what imported power supplies involve. So you're measuring the calorie content. After a couple of stomach pads in the hall, the government made an offer to which the agricultural organisations could not say no. I can't see that the system on the farm has changed significantly, that there have been some particularly new leads, but they couldn't say no to it. I can understand that. But as important as the farmer's income is the distribution of that income. The distribution of income, the use it benefits, is also of great importance for the purposes of our agricultural policy. It was very bad that the operating difficulties did not arise in the agricultural negotiations, and that it became part of it. I would like that, and I would also like animal welfare somehow to be stimulated in some sort of bonus scheme, incentive schemes, and I hope it can eventually come into place in that context. Then we just get to hope that along the way to such a system we will at least be able to increase organic production in Norway, where animal welfare is quite central.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1746	Mrs Sem-Jacobsen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and has the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1751	I'm just a little tired of experiencing that Westgaard-Halle's representative chooses to use speaking time to pretend that she thinks I'm questioning whether climate change is man-made. What I did was point out how the autumn and spring have been in the East, and that we do not yet know whether it is due to climate change, and then I spent the rest of my contribution talking about how important it is to work against climate change. For the sake of order, I do not question whether climate change is man-made. I think so. So I hope and believe that the reason why the representative chose to make that kind of comments is that she's as engaged as I am in that we're all actually going to have that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1758	The agricultural debate is followed by Trundellag every year. And the debate has gone a long way. I respect that. I want to start with a quote: it's not cigarettes people most die of. Gunhild Stordalen said that this week, when she opened the EAT conference on Monday morning in Stockholm. It's not terror either. It's not a warrior. It's not car accidents. There are no falls in the bathtub. It's the food that gets to have on us eventually. Some places people die of too little food, but in very many parts of the world people die of too much food, for unhealthy food. About 2 billion of the world's 7.4 billion people have too little to eat, but there are almost as many who are obese. Malnutrition still accounts for one third of all child deaths in the world. As a health politician, I just have to say that food policy is a big policy, even though I experience the regional commitment of my strong home region, Tøndelag, on precisely these issues. The main societal task of Norwegian agriculture is to ensure sufficient, safe and varied food of good quality. But agriculture, of course, also contributes to housing and business throughout the country. There are many speakers here today. In a world with a growing population, this is a national responsibility, of which most nations are concerned. The Labour Party believes that there is good reason to commend the Farmer for having succeeded in negotiating an agreement, that the market balance has been strengthened by the government agreeing to introduce measures to strengthen the ability to balance the market, especially in the case of pigs and sheep. The right-wing parties in the government are behind this change in price we have seen in recent years, with a redistribution of subsidies from small and medium-sized applications. We have noticed that the Minister of Agriculture believes that this year's agreement continues the lines of the last agricultural settlements with the Right and the Advance Party in government. This is a price change The Labour Party has not supported, and we are pleased that this year's agreement significantly continues the profile of the majority of population, where we see positive changes towards strengthening small and medium-sized uses and a clearer profile of grazing. We believe that this is absolutely necessary in order to achieve the bulk of the population's objectives of increased food production based on Norwegian resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1781	The left has been supporting the latest agricultural operations, last year and this year, and is very pleased with the developments we are seeing. One of the things we've been talking about is that we have to have professional farmers who have a salary to live on. They are the ones who are going to support agriculture and food production in general. They've got a paycheck, and they're getting it further now. This year there is also a greater balance between large and small uses, that is correct. It's also important that we remember the structure. Then we get into the grain production, which is so important for the climate we're talking about. We cannot continue a development where we drag milk production out of the districts and valleys and replace it with grain production in the flatlands. That balance is also very important. Then we come to the climate adaptation. Whatever the cause, we need to adapt to a climate in the future. This is soil leaching, it's about race that's going to go, and it's about drought and precipitation that will come and go. That's why we have to use the smart possibilities. When we talk about forest protection, we have to discuss which forest protection. The height of the forest protection is e.g. delaying the water entering the valleys. There are also opportunities to use the toolbox with which we have rigged to take proper action, and it is important that we think politically, but also in agriculture, about what opportunities we have. So for the predatory debate, which I understand has been a theme. In the Øyerberg, a wolf was shot early today. It was outside the son. It shows that we now have a predatory policy, and a wolf policy that works. Quick killing permits are granted, and we are able to hunt. Five years ago, that wolf would be traveling to Skåbu, where there were great losses five years ago. We have now prevented that. There had been some losses where it stayed, but it shows that we are running a bureaucracy that works. We've gained the skills to hunt, and we're making important progress. Then there's no reason to use a lot of political energy and noise to gnaw up during a debate about an administration that's starting to work well. There's a lot of other challenges we're facing to address the diversity of our continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1798	In fact, this is a good day. Outside this hall it's a nice day. When we hear the debate in here, especially represented by one party, it doesn't sound like that at all. It may seem as if the Center Party had made everything in advance to a reality they thought would happen – and that was not the case. Then it's an advantage to replace the notes. The centre party has cultivated this with the sound of complaints, or shillings – melancholy, backward, full of pain. It can often be provocative. It can even be seductive. Playing on dissatisfaction, constructing images to then attack them, can very many times have some success over it. But it requires a assumption. It requires that it is a dissatisfaction. It requires that the image you're constructing, at least has a twist of credibility. But out there, where it's a good day, people are satisfied. Some are reasonably satisfied. Some people are even very happy. And then the dissatisfaction is again inside the heads of the representatives of the Centre Party and in the notes that they should have replaced. The song of complaint, or arbitration, is no longer seductive. It's no longer provocative. It's just sour.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1803	The center party cheers on the farmers, and you don't have to ask a lot of farmers until you get to confirm that. I understand on the nutrition committee that they feel that the debate is going on. Previous speeches well demonstrated how little one can say in many words. But I want to give the debate some strong calls to the Council of State when we're so lucky to have him here with us and discuss the agricultural settlement, which at least I, before I got in here, was very engaged in and now has the pleasure of being on the inside. Much exciting is happening in agriculture. Innovation and development initiatives are being taken across the country. In Valdres, veterinarians and farms have joined together to clarify the health of cows, as one example. I found out in a written question to the Council of State that he does not know the scheme himself, but we have to work on such initiatives to cheer up – initiatives from the industry itself to address the challenges they face. There is no doubt that climate challenges and animal welfare are being taken seriously. Much research is following up the challenges and changes. In this context, I want to draw out the back of the coin. NIBIO The onion in Volbu is a research station that has worked for many years and has delivered good results in mountain research and plant production. Here the government is not able to address the need for increased knowledge when they now want to put the hook on the door of this research station. It's a well-established research environment with valuable areas we're never going to get back. Another prudent measure is to define agricultural training within the vocational schools as non-technical, which means that they have lost the basis for funding in the vocational schools. It is dramatic and serious and can lead to the fact that we do not have agricultural training in the vocational schools in the future. The representative, Mr Eger Mehl, is calling for the Minister of Agriculture and Food to speak to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, which I fully support. In addition, he should speak to both the Minister of Knowledge and Integration and the Minister of Research and Higher Education. I understand that there is an extensive field of expertise and a lot of issues that we draw into the agricultural system in this context, but the Council of State has many things to deal with. I hope he will also take up education in agriculture and agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1818	The representative Westgaard-Halle came up with some characteristics that require some comments. They could not stand in disrepute. The centre party is clear that climate is the greatest challenge of our time. Our common global climate change goals make great demands on Norwegian climate policy in the time to come. But the Central Party will have a policy that gives real climate, a climate policy that works, that is more than rhetoric and big words. It is interesting that Westgaard-Halle's Prime Minister believes that promp from the cow is our biggest climate disaster. That's not what the Center Party means. The center part realizes that the cow we have done little with, but we can do a lot with other things in agriculture, for example. the Government Parties could speed up the deployment of a CO 2 business transport fund, which would contribute to the reduction of climate emissions from the transport sector in Norway by three quarters. Agriculture has a lot to do, and agriculture is more than willing to do. The government has been passive, that's the truth of that matter. In addition, forest resources are essential for achieving climate objectives. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change assumes that the use of modern bioenergy has to be at least fivefold in the future. It means significantly increased logging and more planting than today. Forest is the solution: increased use of wood in barley, increased use of biofuels, increased use of biomass to replace fossil goods. These are the solutions to the climate crisis. It'll be a wise and sensible part of the bioeconomy, but it requires a conscious commitment. We haven't seen that bet on the right hand side. On the right, there were several possibilities to participate in concrete proposals when we dealt with both waste notification and climate notification earlier this year. We didn't see anything else. I'm proud to be in a party that has been well planted on earth, that intends to leave the earth in better condition for the next generation, through action that works, and that's earth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1832	After the announcement of several Right-Representatives, I cannot stop speaking. They're talking about us black-painting the situation, and that we should also be well aware of those who run in Westfold, and those who run big. Yes, we do, but it must actually be viable for agriculture in the rest of the country as well. Then they say that outside the house here is all very well. Perhaps the Right should take the time to attend the annual meeting of the Norwegian League and listen to the discussion among the farmers, or go to other meetings outside among the farmers. I think I'm one of those who hits most farmers during the year, and I know the mood out. There is a big difference between being happy that there was an agreement – for one know what the option was – to be happy. There's little help with large heads, that's the income of the individual farmer that counts. It seems that this government has great faith in magnificence, and a talk about the priority of the full-time farmer. Of course, the full-time farmer should have good relations. But how does one think it works for a farmer with 20-25 cows who feels he works more than he can to keep it going, when he hears: No, one must not cut 50 cows, because the poor full-time farmer has to make it. I want to repeat what I said before today: having a reasonable deceleration on the back would lead to a simpler way of getting a market balance. It's actually the biggest farmers who have the most to think about if they don't reduce prices – and lift them – so it could be a way to do it, which would be a win-win for both the small and the large farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1839	This has been a predictable debate, and in particular the right has boasted of the agreement. Well, that's good. It is good to hear that the neighbour of the President-in-Office of the Council Foss is satisfied. It is also great to hear that she has met a satisfied mountain ranger. We have also expressed our satisfaction with the content of the agreement. We believe it is actually good, and that is because it is a significant change in price that underlies the agreement Stortinget has now been presented. It is a price change that takes the settlement to the degrees away from what is the Right and the Progress Party's original policy. It is a cross of thought that when we sit here hour after hour and listen to the tribute from the representatives of Right, it is the first time – as far as I can remember – in five years that the government is presenting an agricultural policy document without the Stortinge correcting the course. I can't think of anyone. Perhaps the Minister of Agriculture remembers someone, but I don't remember anyone. It's seen like a brand day for the Right today. I understand that they're spending time, and that's how it works. But the marking is that it is a significant change of course from the ideology of the Right and the Advance Party, and I am pleased about that. There are many examples in the agreement that it was wise to correct for what came in 2014. In particular, the milk supplement for small and medium-sized applications is a good expression. What was put forward in 2014 had one purpose, and it was to centralise and strengthen the largest producers in this country. It was rejected by Stortinget. It was not implemented. This is the change in course – which is clearly confirmed in the last year’s treatment of the agricultural notification in Stortinget – the government has to deal with, and it is a significantly different course than the Right and Advance Party has had as mantra. I would definitely recommend that they continue that line. So there's clearly some issues, not least that we're increasingly reducing the use of our own resources to produce food. Feeding resources are so important, and it has been addressed in the debate. I think there have been many factual and good arguments in pointing it out. We, for our part, have promoted a very clear escalation plan because we want to use Norwegian natural resources more in the effort to produce food. It will be one of the important themes in the future, as well as tackling the climate. When some representatives from the Right and the Advance Party come up here and point out that they are in favour of climate management, they should vote in favour of the climate fund proposal that has been put forward today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1853	The agricultural settlement this year is probably thanks to the efforts made by the Stortinget and the majority of the population last spring when we deal with the agricultural message. We locked doors that the government wanted to open, and we opened doors that they wanted to close. We're impatient. We want to move on. However, there is no doubt that the agreement reached is much closer to the programme of the Centre Party than to the Right and the Progress Party’s party programme. So the agricultural majority at Stortinget works. At the beginning of the debate, the case-speaker warned that the Right withdrew from a comment on market balancing. The note states something about the link between the loss of income and the market imbalance. The last sentence there is pretty good. The centre party would have expressed it differently, but it states that we are talking about the "crown" when we talk about the income target. Now, when the Right Party, the Progress Party and the Left have warned that they no longer support that comment, I will, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, express our support for that comment. So the Council of State can stick to the last sentence of the remark on market balancing as current policy. The debate has been very strange. He has been influenced by a target that the agricultural policy should be measured by the amount of budget support a user uses. It has been said that one should look at the distance between requirements and supply – it's like the scale of this. One has had the regular rounds of phrases from the red-green era. One even experienced during the debate that family relationships — my family relationships — were drawn into the debate by the case-speaker. I'm very proud of the business that my family is doing. But it shows how bad it is, when one compares the policy of a concessional enterprise to a production that has never been subject to the concessional limit. Being able to draw a context here -- yes, it's a bad argumentation policy, and it shows how little content it actually is in Right's policy. In fact, under some of the articles today, I would like to know that I had our odelsgut and had our home and listened to newly hatched chickens as a beep. I think they had more to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1866	A long debate is coming to an end, and I would like to comment on some of the points made in the submissions now in the last round. The representative Nils T. Bjørke tells us that the world out there is completely different from what is described by the Central Party politicians. Yeah, I guess so. Now I've been working on this policy area for four and a half years, and I've been at a lot of organizational collections. I must say that when I have traveled around the country and met farmers, I have made a terrible number of offensive, nice and proud farmers. But in the national rhetoric and in many of the organizations' meetings, I experience the opposite. I guess that's what I've been most surprised about in my political life, that working with business policy would be so hard in terms of providing good framework conditions for an industry. So to the representative Terje Aasland, it just seems like you think raising your voice in your post makes the argument better. I must say I think it's very, very strange. The representative Pollestad saddles down that someone is allowed to drive something bigger, he who took me to a fantastic hatchery that is driven by his own brother. You must be so proud! It was a pattern practice. It was absolutely amazing to be there and look at these beautiful chickens that got clawed in millions. They hatch every three chickens in this country. That was amazing. I really have to say that. When they're among the best in the world, I think they're gonna have to let me exist. It's probably just for you to wish you back to being a chicken farmer. Maybe it would have been better than to complain here in the hall about everything that has to do with agriculture, like this government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1877	I must remind the representative that the speech should be addressed to the President. The representative of Other N. Skelstad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1884	The undersigned has never doubted that the representative Pollestad has been in a chicken hatchery – never. In many ways, this is predictable, but at least I will make one point: from 2014 there has never been any doubt that the Left has faced a diversity in agriculture, that it should be possible for the small to be there, but also the opportunity for those who will invest and get bigger. I very much appreciate the fact that both the Workers' Party and the Centre are so honored that there has been an adjustment in agricultural policy since the Left joined the government. I take it to myself and thank you for that. I think it is commendable that the debate will be so clear, and I would like to thank both Mr Pollestad and Mr Aasland for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1891	Finally, I would like to thank you for a good debate on agricultural policy, which is now in port, what the Labour Party defines as a change of course. The Socialist Left claims that the direction is fixed, and the Central Party, as a rule, thinks both. In the meantime, agriculture and the government are gathering on this year's agricultural agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1896	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1901	The Council of State has not refuted the fact that, with the country's own figures, the income frame had to be 1 320 million. kr at least to meet the unanimous objective of the Storting. The Christian People's Party has failed, the Christian People's Party has not commented on this. Organisations had no choice but to break with Stortingen's unanimous remark if they wanted to sign an agricultural agreement. The Council of State has said that major government appropriations that followed the will of the Grand Duchy would increase overproduction. I have never received such a clear recognition from a government council at Stortinget's pulpit that the use of instruments needs to be changed. The representative Bjørke said that a reasonable drop-down of increasing size would be in the interests of the big ones. Glittering, totally pointed. Finally, a thorough debate is needed. It is gratifying that consumers want clean food — away from narasin and monensin in the poultry team — and that young people want an alliance for a new policy citizen so that we may get out better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1910	No one else has asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1926	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It was a coherent and positive approach to the negotiated and submitted reindeer management agreement 2018/2019 in the Committee. [[Rapporteur: Mr van den Broek]] It appears from the proposal that the central political basis for the negotiations, inter alia: has been the handling by the Storting of the gross domestic product report on reindeer management, which was dealt with in Stortingen a year ago. Through the joint comments, the Committee drew particular attention to the positive conclusion that the negotiations had reached an agreement between the parties, with a framework of 123,1 million. kr. This is an increase of 4.5 million. kr from last year’s agreement. The grubbing-up agreement is the main instrument for following up the objectives and guidelines of the reindeer management policy, in addition to the reindeer management law. It is important that one facilitates the development of the reindeer industry as a rational, market-oriented industry, which is sustainable in the long term. It is an overall committee which, in its comments, expresses its positive view that measures built up under ecological sustainability are particularly priority. It is recorded by the Committee that the reindeer meat market over several years has had a positive development, which has contributed to a positive income development in the industry in recent years. It has been a challenge, especially in parts of Finnmark, to adapt the reindeer to the grazing grounds. The Committee has noted that the government in the proposition points out that the challenge in the future is to ensure a stable reindeer according to the grazing resource. It should be noted that the work done over several years to reduce the purity has been necessary. One also agrees with the Committee that this reindeer management agreement gives priority to supporting those who have followed up the reduction decisions, while those who have not complied with reduction requirements have not been in a position to receive grants. Finally, I would also like to point out that the crisis response and the HMS service in reindeer operations have been key issues during the year's negotiations. It is positive that, through a significant increase in the district grant, efforts are being made to strengthen the HMS service in addition to the preparedness to ensure animal welfare under difficult grazing conditions. As mentioned at the outset in my speech, the Committee is united behind the comments I have referred to, and the Committee's position is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1951	The Sami reindeer is an important industry and a major cultural carrier for the Sami people. The basis for further development of the industry lies in the sustainable and animal-welfare use of grazing areas. The government has an offensive reintroduction policy and will follow up the work of the reintroduction communication through, among others. changes to the Law on Repurchase Operations. The clean-up agreement is, in addition to the clean-up law, the main instrument for pursuing the objectives and guidelines of the clean-up policy. It is positive that in February the State and the Norwegian Reinbrijtssamer Landsförbund reached agreement on a new reindeer management agreement. The new agreement continues the lines of the reindeer management message, such as: priority shall be given to the production and marketing-enhancing subsidy schemes and to facilitating reindeer owners whose main activity is reindeer activity. The government is committed to pursuing a reindeer management policy that ensures that it pays to create both new jobs and to work, and will facilitate the development of the reindeer management industry as a rational, market-oriented and sustainable industry. The JELUEA platform states that, in cooperation with the reindeer industry, the government will facilitate an ecologically sustainable reindeer industry. It is therefore positive that measures that build up under this are particularly priority. The reindeer meat market has been developing positively in recent years, contributing to a positive trend in industry income. The government points in the proposition to the importance of consistency between reindeer and grazing resources, stressing the need for the reduction of reindeer numbers, carried out over several years. The new agreement goes on to do this by supporting those who have followed up the reduction decisions, while those who have not complied with reduction requirements have not been in a position to receive grants. It is positive that the agreement facilitates the strengthening of the HMS services in reindeer management and the preparedness to ensure animal welfare under difficult grazing conditions. Finally, it is gratifying that an overall committee is behind the Committee's decision on the new reindeer management agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1968	The centre party is pleased that a reindeer management agreement was reached this year. The Purity Contract Institute is important to have a close and thorough dialogue with the industry. A nature-based industry will always face changing challenges and needs. Therefore, close contact is necessary. Purification is one of the most important carriers of Sami language and culture. In the setting, it is suggested that a small increase in the number of people associated with the industry is almost negative or worrying. The industry itself considers this to be very positive. Purification is a family-based industry. So it's nice to see that it's good recruitment to the industry. Figures from surveys show that reindeer farming, together with fishing, is very different from all other occupations in terms of well-being in the profession. The most important thing for maintaining the reindeer industry is that pastures are maintained. There has been and is a lot of focus on pure numbers, but in order to have good framework conditions for continued sustainability, the other framework conditions in place, such as grazing time and grazing grass, must also be applied. In order to establish and obtain recognition for a given measure, predictability must also be provided for the area available for grazing. We see from the negotiations that the industry itself points out that soil protection is the most important and demanding thing they work with. Predictability also applies to the amount of production that will be lost to predatory game. This year's agreement shows that a lot is in place. Now we see that we also have a system that exempts industry from some taxes on operating resources. This is high time. What is not in place is a Norwegian-Swedish reindeer grazing convention. Priority must now be given to this work, so that a solution can be found. Norway should be proud that we have a strong, living reindeer industry, a unique indigenous industry that produces fantastic raw materials in poor and weathery pastures – and thus continues a proud and rich culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1981	The Christian People's Party is well pleased that the parties to the agreement have reached agreement in the negotiations on the reindeer management agreement 2018/2019. These are important and demanding negotiations, but it is a good sign that the parties who know best how to print the shoe are the ones who can find agreement. The sewerage industry is important both for industry and for the Sami cultural heritage. The Sameting has pointed out that reindeer is a cornerstone of Sami culture. This underlines the need for a healthy reindeer industry that acts both as a nutrient and as a culture bearer. It is therefore important that the reindeer continue to develop in the future. As for all industries, it is a provision for future developmental possibilities that reindeer activities are viable. Resilient reindeer management must aim to be an ecological, economic and culturally viable industry. The objectives are interrelated, ecological resilience provides a basis for economic viability, and together provide ecological and economic viability with the potential to sustain and develop the cultural resilience of reindeer farming. The Christian People's Party wishes the reindeer industry to continue to be strong, and is well pleased that the parties have reached agreement on the reindeer management agreement 2018/2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e1992	The clean-up agreement concluded between the State and the NRL provides the basis for a positive development in reindeer management. It is important both for the preservation and use of grazing land, which is largely part of the country, but is also an essential requirement for maintaining the Sami culture in parts of the country. And then we're not going to forget that we have more good tambourines, which also help to make it more reindeer than where the traditional sámi reindeer is. This year's grubbing-up agreement continues to emphasise the need to continue and be reinforced by the ecological reindeer power of the reindeer. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee makes clear that the policy that has been pursued over time, for example. by means of significant reductions in terms of integers, have been demanding for individual practitioners, but have been necessary, all the time that internal self-government has not sufficiently cleaned up. I want to link some words to it, in the light of this agreement that has now been concluded, because there are still challenges in reindeer operations related to that. It is not a goal for the government to regulate this industry as closely as possible, but it was absolutely necessary to do so because the internal self-government has not functioned properly. Through this agreement, we continue to strengthen the basis for the production of reindeer meat, which has great market opportunities, and it is being made possible for the reindeer owners who have this as their main industry to also benefit from it. The market situation for reindeer meat has been in good development, and it is even above high prices. It also means that the market is vulnerable, but I still believe that the reindeer has a great potential for development in the future. When I'm here, I'll also say to Stortinget that we do not have a functioning reindeer management system as of today. It's because the Sameting has chosen not to name its representatives, and the state has been waiting for final feedback from the reindeer. It is a good thing that the Stortinget is made aware that I will now, on a self-contained basis, bring up the government's representatives on the reintroduction board to reintroduce the administration when it concerns reintroduction matters delegated to the reintroduction board, regardless of whether or not the Sametinget should name its representatives. It is crucial that we do not experience that the reindeer operators who are now benefiting from this reindeer management agreement are not allowed to deal with the matters of the reindeer management board.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2003	The Jeløya platform shows that the Sami reindeer is an important cultural carrier for the Sami people. Reference is made to the use of grazing areas that are sustainable and animal-welfare and that it will facilitate an ecologically sustainable reindeer industry. In a country with only 3 pst. cultivated land is the production of reindeer meat a fantastic and sustainable food production, but there are now barely 300 g of reindeer meat available to each Nordic during the year. I wonder how much reindeer meat goes to feed the far too large predatory game population in Norway. Reineier Kappfjell from the southern Sami area told me that in their reindeer pastures it was slaughtered approx. 1 500 animals in 1992 and the same in 1993. Today they slaughter only 200-300 animals per year. No more can they go out to maintain the herd of reindeer in a situation where predatory game supplies itself. They only have 40 pst. access to calves after loss – and the slaughter weight is good, so it is not clean in poor condition. Predictability also applies to the amount of food production to be fed to the predatory game. The game of prey takes great jafs of the reindeer's economy and quality of life. In addition, animal welfare is not safe. According to the reindeer management agreement, large losses result in the reindeer’s failure to achieve the contractual grant schemes because they are largely production-oriented. Thus, the central party believes that the State does not fulfil its obligations under either the Constitution § 108 or international conventions by allowing robbers to take such a large part of the reindeer's livelihood. The problems of wild game also undermine ecologically sustainable reindeer management. Adaptation to avoid predatory game leads to more pure feeding and also more use of purchased power feed. I don't want us to develop a reindeer that comes in the same situation as the sheep industry, unless we spend less and less time grazing – that we get into a situation where the reindeer might have preferred to have taken place in a poultry. I wonder if the minister has ever stood in a calving fence and listened to the grunting of the reinsimla and the reincalve when they communicate with each other. In that case, he should, because it's amazing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2016	I want to start by giving honor to the parties who have negotiated this agreement. In my view, the NRL and the State have come up with a reindeer management agreement that facilitates the development and possibilities of reindeer management plus that it addresses the challenges facing the industry with locked winter grazing, which has resulted in a huge loss for several reindeer operators. The agreement provides for financial measures in the reindeer industry of a total of 123 million. kr. This is an increase of 4.5 million. kr in relation to the current refurbishment agreement. The Sami reindeer is an important cultural carrier for the Sami people and an important industry in Northern Norway. The basis for culture and industry shall be ensured through the use of grazing areas that are sustainable and animal welfare sound. Therefore, our government's policy in cooperation with the reindeer industry should facilitate an ecologically sustainable reindeer industry, as established in the Jeløya platform. The industry must continue its market orientation and the reindeer management agreement arrangements must facilitate such development. In spring 2017 the government presented Report. St. 32 for 2016–2017, Reind drift – long tradition – unique opportunities. The clean-up contract continues the lines of the message as well as the promises of the Jeleia platform. This means giving priority to grant schemes that strengthen production and turnover and facilitating the reindeer’s main activity as reindeer owners. It is therefore positive and forward-looking that grants to the Development and Investment Fund in the State budget are increased by 3.8 million. NOK 36,6 million. kr. Cost-reducing grants and direct grants are reduced by 1,1 million. kr in the State budget, at 75,6 million. kr. This must also be seen in the context of the tax exemption on ATVs and snowmobiles of about 6 million. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the light of the reduction of production revenue and the recent completion of the clean-up process, the main lines of the grant system are continued as they stand today to ensure stability in the arrangements for the reindeer management agreement. The development of reindeer employment is crucial for economic profitability, and we see that there has been a reduction in the number of pages while there has been an increase in the number of reindeer operators. This has an economic side in the distribution of revenue within the page, which may lead to an unfortunate long-term trend. Therefore, it is important that the government follow up the reindeer management message with changes to the reindeer management law so that we can look at this in a comprehensive picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2033	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2049	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2058	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its effective examination. The case concerns the situation of Norwegian Hydro in Brazil, a situation which has arisen following claims of pollution from Norwegian Hydro's alumina plant Alumorte in Brazil following the extreme weather in February 2018. Norwegian Hydro has a owner part of the plant of 92.1 pst., and the country owns 34.5 pst. of the axans of the Norwegian Hydro. The Minister of Industry asked for a letter to the Stortinget on 3 May 2018. The decision was taken on 7 June and the Stortinget decided to refer the matter to the Committee for a preliminary ruling. In order to get a little more detailed information about the facts, we sent a letter from the Committee to the Council of State and then got quite a clarification that Norsk Hydro has provided on both the timeline and the actual conditions of the matter, as Norsk Hydro sees it. The committee is well divided in the setting, but we note the orientation, neither criticism nor medals for the hero in the Council of State. I think it's an important deal. It is easy to adopt a principle of ownership – we also have to work on the issues when the principle meets the reality. It's a serious thing. The claims are not from an action group, but from Brazilian authorities at local, regional and national level. We also see in the media that it is speculated whether the Hydro Manager should be called to listen to what I understand is the state level. The Committee has noted that the Council of State will continue to follow matters closely. There's a call that's easy to agree to, and I expect the Council of State to assume that the committee has a expectation that it will do the same. Then one also shows that we will receive a new ownership message during 2019. SV has its own comment. I want to draw up on behalf of the Center Party one point in him that I think is relevant, and it is to emphasise that the state that owns must make an independent assessment of whether companies take social responsibility, and not just lean on the company's own assessment of their own efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2073	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the effective and good management of the Committee. I would also like to thank the Minister for being willing to inform the Storting in the way he has done. I think it's a good way to give Stortinget information about complicated things. And then I would also like to thank the representative Knag Fylkesnes, who had his own commitment to getting the case on the agenda. I think it's important. I think it's important that Stortinget's ability to see, discuss and not least let himself be informed about these kinds of things. It's a demanding matter for Hydro. When Hydro entered Brazil and took over these facilities, it was to make Hydro forward-looking, to ensure that they had control of the value chain for the production of aluminium and not least support the Norwegian business. It was an important event when Hydro got the chance. It is clear that there is a scratch in the paint and a demanding situation as the situation has now become. I expect Hydro now to do everything they can, possibly with the owners, to ensure that the population is safe and that they are not in any way affected by health, the environment and safety. So it's important that Hydro now manages to solve the situation, that one ensures that emissions will not happen again, and not least that trust and reputation can be restored. I think it's important that the Storting also recognizes that the production of Hydro in Brazil is also essential for Hydro's future, because they have a basis for the whole value chain. However, there is no need to go at any cost to the population and the environment — pollution, emissions in the neighbourhoods. I believe that when we get even more lessons from this matter – and it is important that the Council of State also recognizes all the learning points that one can take on this matter – it is important to discuss this further in Stortinget if there is anything, and that one then also discusses how one follows the principles of ownership management and how also the state follows up complicated matters to the companies that operate outside. I have good faith that it will be done. We initially have a very strong framework around the ownership message and how things are to be managed, and I expect that we will get good discussions about it in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2088	Perhaps the most eye-catching thing about the post to the Council of State was that, in his statement, he consistently referred to Hydro's own explanations and did not give the impression of having done independent research to find out whether Hydro has acted in line with government leaders for social responsibility and the environment. It's incomprehensible to me in such a serious situation when the lead from Storting is so clear. Hydro is in the midst of a crisis in Brazil with a local population without trust in Hydro and with fear of a verureinary drinking water theirira. The Minister of Economic Affairs should have discussed this in his article, but instead we got a presentation on how to say at least concretely in 10 minutes. Brazilian authorities, their own environmental institute, the IEC, have made investigations much closer in time to discharge and conclude that it has been contaminated by Hydro’s activities. It's the opposite of Hydro's own research, which was done a month later, where they cleaned themselves up. Why doesn't the Council of State go beyond mentioning the Brazilian authorities' own investigations as claims? After all, Brazil's own studies have reduced production by 50 pst, which they are still limited to. The Committee requested that Hydro be handed over from the Council of State during the process. Although this of course concentrates on own investigations, it is also much more balanced than the Council of State delivered in the distribution. Hydro's own investigations include: the local population is not confident that Hydro is taking it seriously. Why is it not mentioned in the Council of State? Furthermore, we have a ownership message that lists the principle of good ownership. It says the following: ‘All Norwegian companies should take social responsibility whether they are privately or publicly owned and whether they are active in Norway or in other countries.’ And on the other hand, «Societal responsibility covers a variety of issues relating to the impact of company activities on people, society and the environment, including human rights, employee rights, climate and environment, anti-corruption and transparency.» It'll only be a joke if the government doesn't want to do their own research to check if the company actually complies with the principle in the ownership message. Then they're not very much worth. What I mean is the first basic question that the Council of State has to answer: why does a not at least own assessments of Hydro's activity in Brazil?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2111	Through direct ownership managed by the departments, the state is today inside 74 companies. Some of these companies are purely state-owned companies, while others are listed in stock exchange listings where the state has different sizes of owners. In Hydro, this is the ownership of 34.5 pst. The majority has repeatedly stated that a desire for a state ownership based on social responsibility and sustainability. Furthermore, State ownership shall be exercised professionally and responsibly within the framework of Norwegian company law and other laws, based on the generally accepted ownership management principle and with awareness of the distinction between the role of owners and other roles of the State. As the Christian People's Party has said many times in this Chamber, we think that companies with the state that owns have an extra responsibility for having a business that is in line with the ethical norm of Norwegian society. The Christian People's Party expects social responsibility to be firmly anchored in the company where the state owns it. In the case of international business, it is particularly important that companies conduct best practice in the class and do not base current business practices in the country concerned if the same business practice would not be acceptable in Norway. This must also be assessed by all international investment decisions. The Christian People's Party believes that a business conduct that is best in the class of ethics and compliance with laws and rules provides a long-term competitive advantage. This helps to build the international reputation of Norwegian companies, which offers more possibilities in a longer perspective. The Christian People's Party marks itself with the dispensation of the Council of State and is pleased that the Council of State will continue to follow the matter closely. The Christian People's Party assumes that such matters are followed up in line with the principles of state ownership, including the expectation of sustainability.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2122	According to the ownership message Report. St. 27 for 2013–2014 the State expects government-owned companies to work systematically and purposefully with their social responsibility and to lead in these areas. Social responsibility, under the principle of good ownership, covers a number of different areas of action relating to the impact of company activities on people, society and the environment, including human rights, employee rights, climate and environment, anti-corruption and transparency – which was also addressed by the representative Knag Fylkesnes. But the Council of State's statement was in this way disappointing because he did not bring anything new or relevant. He only repeated Hydro's version that it was about an isolated episode in February, which had not really resulted in emissions. The Green Party relies on Brazilian reports and documentation — local population hair samples showing heavy metals poisoning, water samples showing alarmingly high concentrations of hazardous waste, documentation and images of unregulated emissions, local population acute health problems related to poisoning — and fundamentally disagrees with the company’s version. Hydro refuses emissions and questions whether any emissions lead to health damage. Hydro does not respond to alerts and concerns from the local population, environmental organisations or trade unions. The serious thing about the situation is that Hydro has two landfills located in a nature reserve – without a formal licence. The largest and oldest of these is about 2 million square meters and is 50 meters high. The deposit constitutes a large mountain under open sky. The wind blows toxic waste into forests, rivers and cities. It smells caustic soda around the landfills, and people get irritation in the skin, in the eyes and in the airways. Under the criminal law §§239 and 240, the management of Hydro, including the board of directors, may become liable under criminal law if they have actively taken decisions that have led to acts described in the criminal provisions, or have subsequently acted passively on the knowledge that such acts are taking place. The company may also be liable for criminal liability if these acts are illegal in Brazil, cf. § 5, first paragraph, c-1. Had there been any suspicion that a company had caused such damage to people and the environment in Norway — as is the case in this case in Brazil — the actions would have been considered so punishable that Norwegian prosecution authorities would have to investigate the case. The question is whether the acts should be regarded as less punitive because they have taken place in Brazil. We now expect the state as a storehouse in Hydro to quickly and actively contribute to clarifying conditions and correcting what can be corrected. I refer the Greens' proposals to the Greens' Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2141	The representative Per Espen Stoknes then mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2146	I asked to explain this matter to Stortinget, and it was done on 7 June. The main emphasis of my presentation was then on the country's ownership follow-up of Norsk Hydro in the context of the situation that has occurred at the Alumina plant Alunorte in Brazil. It is important to stress that this case is still ongoing – anyone who sees in the media picture can see – this case is not closed. I can now say, first of all, that as Minister of Industry, both I and the Department are going to follow this matter carefully, also further. The state owns 34.3 pst. by Norsk Hydro, also managed to bring it. The state ownership is extensive in Norwegian business, and it is important, as the committee's chairman stressed, that we are based on what the Stortinget itself has adopted – my work instructions – namely the framework for State ownership, the distribution of roles between shareholders, governance and day-to-day management. At the same time, the ownership notice has formulated some clear expectations for the companies, including: in the field of sustainability, and it is my responsibility and the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to follow up. I briefly explained the background to the matter. It is important that Hydro’s activities in Brazil are under the responsibility of the Management Board. It is not my job to express concrete views while the situation is in progress, i.e. to express views on concrete operational aspects. My task is to follow up on how the company meets the expectations of the state, which a total increase has been behind. In other words, there are, of course, assessments here. The Ministry must make assessments. Our job is to follow up. That the ministry should enter and be an additional board, or board of directors, is not in line with ownership expectations. Of course, independent assessments of how the board manages the situation need to be done by the department. I've also said, both June 7th and now, that my impression is that Hydro has taken this situation very seriously. It is working on finding good solutions, but the matter is, as I said, not yet finished. There is no agreement between the company and the Brazilian authorities on the framework for ordinary operations at Alumorte. As Minister of Industry, I am also concerned about the conditions of companies operating abroad. Brazil is a very important cooperation country for Norway and our main trading partner in Latin America. I appreciate the fact that the committee has had a quick and effective procedure on this matter, and that it was also possible to come to the Stortinget and explain it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2161	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2166	When the cases were first raised in the Control and Constitutional Committee, the Committee sent a letter to the Council of State containing a number of questions put to the signatories. I had expected that something the Council of State came up with in the statement, that he just came up with the assessment that the ministry must make on a self-contained basis. The second question was that there is not the first time there is emissions from Hydro's plant due to large amounts of rainfall. Several cases have occurred before, last reported in 2009. Hydro then alerts measures to prevent it from happening again. Has the Council followed up on the implementation of these measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2174	I have noticed the representative Knag Fylkesnes’ posts. There is a significant difference in examination and assessment. The Ministry of Industry's job cannot be to go in and investigate, for example: scientific reports. Of course, we need to assess the material we receive, we need to ask questions to the company and to the board of directors, to which we relate. It is also up to us, because we appoint some board members, to consider how the board members and the board deal with different situations in the overall, but to do their own research, which the representative Knag Fylkesnes seems to think we should, I believe would be contrary to the principles of the Stortinget through the ownership message. We have a continuous dialogue and meetings with Hydro where the theme has been both what Hydro has done in the past to ensure – there have been some improvements at the plant – and what are their plans in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2181	These are not my own studies, but to make assessments based on the studies that have already been carried out, for example. by the Brazilian environmental institute, or to enter and evaluate what has come from Hydro itself. There's only one on Hydro's version of the case. But the question was not about it, it was about the question that was sent to the Council of State before Easter: it is not the first time that there has been emissions from Hydro’s plant due to large amounts of rainfall, last reported in 2009. Hydro then alerts measures to prevent it from happening again. Has the Council followed up on the implementation of these measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2188	I personally have only been a State Council since January, but as far as I remember, improvements and changes have been made at the plant, even after 2009, among others. on some pipelines. In this case, Hydro has announced – in the context of what is referred to as a discharge of unclean water – that they will also repair their water ponies in order to deal with a situation such as that of February. It's a natural task for the department to ask questions and follow up. When Hydro says that this and this we're going to do, we're going to follow up on that. We also ask critical questions: How is social responsibility followed up? What are the procedures for this? All of this is in the normal and proper follow-up of the owner. In the case of own investigations, we are not the investigating authority in Brazil.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2195	If the companies do not comply with the fundamental principles of ownership messages, one or more of these must consider whether or not to conduct own investigations. But that's not what I said here. I decided to make a proper assessment of the studies already established. Back to the answers given by the Council of State to the questions he received before Easter, i.e. three to four months after he became a government councillor. So he's had plenty of time to get into this – he's had months to think about it. It should not be a surprise that the question should be raised today about the emissions that occurred in 2009, where Hydro announced that they would implement measures. Has the Council of State taken concrete action to ensure that these measures were implemented? We've asked questions about that. And: Will he ask for a statement as to why the measures were not sufficient? Did he do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2204	First, it's important to remember what's been the formal process here. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee did not send formal questions in this matter. There was an explanation that I asked to give. It is quite natural for the representative to ask questions about this. Just so there is no idea that the ministry has not wanted to answer questions. We have meetings with Hydro, which happens continuously, sometimes with the Council of State, i.e. me, present, sometimes only with the Department. In connection with this case there have been three meetings. The natural question to ask is: how has development been in the last ten years? How has the plant been repaired? What are the plans ahead? It's natural to follow up on questions about it, too. But one important thing that the representative of Knag County seems to have a slightly unexplained relationship with is the distinction between the role of the department and the role of the board. The Ministry does not operate this company. That's what the board does and is responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2211	I think the councils have a problematic relationship with the role of ownership messages in their own functions. The ownership message gives clear principles and clear instructions for the operation of the owner dialogue. This means that the Council of State must make independent assessments of the information it receives from Hydro, and may operate a little outreach, for example. by sticking to the Brazilian authorities as their own environmental institute. That's what I mean is a minimum here. If not, we have a problem with the government's follow-up of the ownership message. That's what I think might be the problem with this case. It gives an insight into how the government follows the ownership of its own companies, not least in countries like Brazil, where there are so clear messages. Hydro itself says that locals do not have confidence, the people are afraid that drinking water is contaminated, and the authorities also point out that it does. That's what I mean the council has not taken seriously. Then the question is, how will the Council of State follow up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2216	Firstly, the representative refers to this IEC report which, quite correctly, is the report that was the starting point of the claims. The reason why we call it statements is that this isn't verified. This isn't proven. This is not truth. It is true that this was the starting point for the claims that there had been discharges from the red sludge deposit. But it is worth noting that as far as I have understood, the Brazilian authorities now say that there have not been discharges from the red sludge deposit. If that now seems to be, as far as I have understood, a kind of agreement about. At the same time, there is agreement that discharges of uncleaned water came from the landfill. Hydro has, among others: said it has to be repaired in order to deal with rain. What is the natural follow-up to this is to see when the case gets a sentence, go through the matter with the company, but also make your own assessments of the matter in the department, in the light of what is in the ownership notice. But again, it is important that our job, as the Stortinget has given us, is not to be the board of directors of the company, but to follow the principles of ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2223	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2228	I thought the exchange of lines we were through here, illustrated what makes this an important and fundamental matter to address. It shows how the government deals with the ownership message. The ownership message is full of values that we see high, and that are also leading for how we should stand to ownership, whether it's in Norway or in other countries around the world, completely independent of whether it's important trading partners for us or not, completely blind, completely clear, pure, simple values, whether it's for society, environment, human rights, indigenous people or others. What this case has been discovered is that Hydro's activity in Brazil is very controversial, and there's a lot of debt that the enterprise is in conflict with these values. In that case, I thought it was particularly important that the Council of State should come to Stortinget without having made any own judgements – just shown to Hydro’s own explanation – and claim that the investigations carried out by Brazilian environmental authorities are only for claims. It seems special to me, and it may also give us an input to the next round of the ownership message, that if we are to have a working ownership message, it should be governing – not a board, but a board – for what the ownership dialogue should be. This also means that there will be a checklist for any government council in the Ministry of Economic Affairs who will come here and submit a statement on ownership dialogue, that the starting point is the ownership message. If you don't mean the country's ownership and the leadership of Stortinget, nothing at all. I think the way to go here is some kind of mechanism in which the state is able to make its own assessments. There is no need for investigations – in the most serious cases it should be – but at least there should be self-assessment, self-assessment and not just an assessment by the company in which it owns.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2237	There is no claim that the department does not make assessments. Of course, the department has to make assessments. It's not that the ministry through ownership dialogue, when we ask questions, when we ask for information, is a pure mailbox for companies where the state has, in this case, 34.3 pst. We're making assessments. But there's a difference between making assessments as it's described that the ministry is going to do in the ownership message, that's the kind of assessment, and the representative that Knag Fylkesnes is drawing up. To describe the Brazilian report, i.e. this one IEC report, which just claims: it's simply because I don't know which other word to use. There is one report, there are many other reports that show more. Hydro, which, of course, is an important source of this, and their scientific research – also independent, not made by Hydro's own researchers, but by independent agencies – shows the opposite, and my understanding is that the Brazilian authorities now believe that there has been no discharge from the sludge deposit, which was the starting point for the discussion. I agree that it is important for the Storting to be given explanations. The size must be able to discuss private business, not just the rented state enterprises, but any state enterprises and see how we as countries deal with them. The size has an important control function, and the committee has an important control function towards the ministry and towards me as the State Council, but there is nothing in this discussion and this matter, I believe, that the government is on a collision course with the bulk of the population. Rather, it turns out that SV has a separate understanding of what the country's ownership policy is. Control function — yes. Critical questions – yes. Keep an eye on whether we follow the job we manage on behalf of Stortinget – yes. But this case now shows that SV is alone in his or her slightly specific understanding of how the country's ownership policy should be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2246	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2252	That was a little bit of a special ending. What I picked up here is that Hydro's activity in Brazil may be on a collision course with the ownership message, which is the foundation of all ownership we have from the state. That's the point we're making here. That's why we're criticizing that the government and the state council at all don't have a proper assessment of what's coming from Hydro itself. It's made like what comes from Hydro is the truth, while what comes from IEC is the statements. It says to read the statement, which I hope the Council of State can read for itself. The questions sent by the undersigned, through the control committee to the State Council, are still not answered, and there is a need to make own assessments and to ask critical questions. He has not answered any of the important questions at any time. That seems to me to give a pretty bad impression of how this state council manages ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2257	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2273	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2282	During the examination of the proposal for a representative to ensure broadband communications in the northern regions – Document 8:76 S for 2015–2016 and Innst. 304 S for 2015–2016 – asked the Stortinget government to propose how broadband communications can be ensured in the Norwegian part of the north. The background to Space Norway's project has been the government's and Stortinge's desire to strengthen communication capacity in the northern regions. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget, last Monday, 4 June, unanimously agreed to the proposal to make a conditional commitment to Space Norway AS on equity. In retrospect, representatives Audun Lysbakken and Björn Moxnes have raised questions about the role of the US defence in the project. With regard to defence policy and the dialogue with our allies, I will leave it to the Minister of Defence. However, I would like to clarify that the matter that has been presented in the media is based on a somewhat unprecise presentation of the facts. There is currently no agreement with the United States on the Space Norway project. Nor is it a dedicated nuclear weapon system, but a communication system for sending limited amounts of speech and data. I recommend to Stortinget not to jeopardize this important project on the basis of the news. The user benefits of space infrastructure span widely. This is not least the case for communications in the northern regions. The fast and stable internet is important for all those who operate there, whether it be shipping, fishing or research. Space Norway’s business case suggests that the capacity of the satellites should be used by both Norwegian defence, allies and international commercial actors. Norway will acquire, through the project, a civil and military capacity that strengthens our role as a responsible actor in the northern regions. A robust communication system will also facilitate further value creation. Space Norway has sought to find solutions that ensure societal and governmental needs, while at the same time exploring commercial opportunities to contribute to the financing of the project. The assumptions for the Space Norway business model and the Stortinge decision are that Space Norway should be able to assume a return on its capital contributions to the company. The current model shall cover Norway’s need for assistance with the financing of commercial operators and international cooperation. In order to realise the project, Space Norway will have to negotiate contracts with customers, suppliers and banks for months to come. If doubts are raised about the decision of the Grand Duchy, this will make it more difficult to conduct such negotiations and, as a result, create uncertainty about the project. If we now doubt the progress or the assumptions of the project, the project will be more difficult to realize. It could take a long time and it could be considerably more expensive for Norway to put in place alternative communication capacity in the northern regions. I stress that the investigations carried out prior to the proposal show that poor communication coverage is a threat to maritime safety in the northern regions. The government is therefore concerned that we should get a solution in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2297	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2302	That questions are asked after the Storting's handling of the matter, is quite natural, but I just want to refer to what was given by the information on June 7 through the NRK, where it says the following: ‘Norway and the United States agree that two Norwegian state-owned polar orbit satellites from 2022 shall be equipped with US specially developed military sensors.’ In the light of such information, does the Council of State subsequently agree – or does he think anything about – that further information should have been provided on the occasion of the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2312	The sentence to which the representative of Aasland refers is among the sentences that I believe are unprecise, because it gives the impression that there is a type of pre-negotiated agreement between the Norwegian and American sides. It's not. The Minister of Defense could say more about that. I believe that it is very clear in the matter of what is the use of these satellites. It says that they will be used by the Norwegian defense, by our allies and by commercial ones. And this is built up -- to say it's very simple -- like, there's two satellites, and then you stick to equipment -- that's what you buy, whether it's commercial players, the defense or other -- you party to boxes, which is what Space Norway is now going to sell out. I believe that the matter is well informed, and that Stortinget has also taken its decision on the basis of this, and there were no additional questions from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2321	I agree that there were no additional questions about this from Stortinget's side, and I have no idea whether the information in the NRK is accurate or inaccurate – I trust what the council says. But in the proposition, it's very clear: ‘Space Norway indicates that there are still uncertainties in the project. This uncertainty is related to the fact that the company has not yet negotiated agreements with customers, suppliers and financial institutions.» It's a very precise formulation, and if it's such that pending agreements are in place, it might be natural, in the light of postwar time, to inform the Biggest about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2331	In order to take some of the background to the case and the background that it has been important to do this now – why Space Norway has been committed to getting this commitment in place: Well, precisely because if you did not have this commitment from Stortinget, you could not engage in dialogue or negotiations with potential customers. And here there are customers among our allies. The Americans are one possible customer, and they're commercial customers. It is not that there are a number of agreements that are only ready to be signed. There are a number of stakeholders, but it was precisely in order that the negotiations could get started properly with commercial customers that it was important to get done away with this matter now. For Stortinget, it's probably a bit so that either a matter is well informed, or it isn't – and if it isn't, as a government council, I have a problem. But we'll always think about the Storting getting good, thorough and adequate information.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2338	In the distribution instructions, the second paragraph of Section 2-2 is replaced by the following: ‘Where the measure concerns questions of principle, the investigation shall discuss them in a balanced, systematic and holistic manner.’;» And this is an absolute measure that goes under the distribution instructions and the KS scheme. Here, too, a concept evaluation has been carried out; it has been carried out a KS1 calculation. Not one of these two distributions tells us that the big difference is to equip our Norwegian satellites with equipment from the United States, which makes it a completely different type of satellite than the intention. On the other hand, KS1 opposed the implementation of this measure. They said that the market would sort out broadband in the north on its own, but the Council of State then brought in the EY, a consulting company that made a new assessment, and on the basis of that, he came to Stortinget. Why is the EY statement not available for Stortingen in this treatment – that is where it actually says about this intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2350	I have not registered that Stortinget has asked for the EY investigation – to be completely honest – so whether there are any issues related to it, I cannot answer on the standing foot. But then to the question of the principle: within what's my responsibility, that's business policy, there's no fundamental line change or any fundamental balance here. All aspects of industrial policy have been well explained. Then the Minister of Defence will then say something about why the Department of Defence's assessment is that there are also no fundamental changes affecting Norwegian defence policy. It is clear in the matter that one of the reasons why KS1 was not satisfactory was that it did not meet the defence needs. Of course it's to be used by the Defense, of course it's to be used by our allies. The United States is one of our closest allies. In other words, I believe that this aspect is well covered in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2359	The KS scheme is there to give us a broadest and best decision base when we're going to make big decisions. That is what this has been. The KVU and KS1 are publicly available, and they finally concluded that a non-implementation of this measure should take place. It was on that basis that the Department took EY to implement a settlement, on which they build their proposal. That's why I think it's special that the Storting doesn't get any insight into this distribution. What makes this thing so principleal is that when one builds on a satellite with sensors from the U.S. defense -- which is to be used as a part of their weapon systems -- another type of satellite has, to say the least, a very simple satellite. I think most people understand that. I'm going to assume that everyone understands is a fundamental question, which we have to take explicitly and honestly. This possibility has been removed by the Council of State by keeping this information away from the case documents. Don't the Council of States think it's problematic?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2367	With regard to the defence policy aspects of this, and whether they are fundamental or not, I have given the assessment that the Ministry of Defence has given us, but this is the Minister of Defence who has to answer. The problem with KS1, among other things, was: that it did not respond adequately to the defence needs. This is also important in a defence policy perspective. There is nothing in the proposition that conceals what these satellites are for. They are to be used by Norwegian defence, they are to be used by commercial customers, and they are to be used by our allies. It's very clear. And it's not like this, as it's given the impression, that it's a pre-negotiated agreement with e.g. U.S. defense. That's not true. The Minister of Defence will certainly say something more about that. So, of course, the Storting is in its full right to ask questions about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2384	When matters were discussed at Stortinget on 4 June 2018, it was a great deal of enthusiasm among several speakers in the debate that it was important to strengthen broadband communications in the north. Today we are discussing three specific proposals. My question to the Minister of Industry is, in fact, whether he can say anything about the consequences of the project if the three proposals get more in the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2389	I can briefly say something about it. Proposal No. 1 is that the government should explain the ‘conditions for connecting US military sensors’. Presentation does not just mean that you are in Stortingen in connection with a case, that means that Stortinget has to make a separate statement. It will come when the Storting will gather again in October, leading to a serious time shift for the whole project and could put very much of this in jeopardy. Then the Storting asks us – in the next proposal – to ‘instruct Space Norway to suspend negotiations on the realisation of a project’. [[...]] If you want to start negotiations – as I emphasise, this is not a final negotiation – with allied countries, you will again depend on the implementation of the timetable. If there is no chance that the parties will look for alternative solutions. Finally, the last proposal will mean that... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2400	The case rapporteur, Steinar Reiten of the Christian People's Party, said to the NRK on 6 June that it was unknown information that the Ministry of Defence has entered into a cooperation with the US Department of Defence to allow military equipment for US needs on Norwegian satellites. An American commander, General Raymond, said to Congress on March 15 this year that there is a so-called partnership between the United States and Norway to carry equipment from the US Protector Satellite Communications in polar orbit. So one does not have an agreement, one has a partnership – which is completely unknown to the rapporteur in the Stortinget and to the Stortinget. My question is therefore whether the Council of State seems to have ensured that this matter is sufficiently informed, when the rapporteur of the case is somewhat surprised at new information in the matter, which has been obtained at a US Congressional hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2407	A good starting point in Stortinget is to take from what the parties and the rapporteurs say in large-scale comments and in large-scale treatments, not what you say filtered through the media. That is what I have to deal with, not what the excellent and well-informed representative Steinar Reiten has said in the NRK. I have said – and I would like to repeat it – that it is quite clear in the proposition what the satellite system should be used for. It is clear that it will be used by the Norwegian defence, that it will be used by our allies. Then it is the Secretary of Defense who is responsible for – and has to explain – contact with the United States. As I have stressed several times, it is not the way it was made an impression in the NRK case, that there is a kind of agreement here, but that there have been conversations – it is certainly something the Minister of Defence can say more about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2416	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2421	The Arctic remains a demanding area for modern infrastructure and full communication solutions. Over several years, efforts have been made to improve communication opportunities in the Arctic. It has, among other things, have been an important issue in the work of current and former governments on the North. This is about broadband infrastructure, which is of great importance for all types of activity, both civil and military, in our northern areas. This is also a type of infrastructure that is very expensive. State and commercial cooperation is needed to find solutions to realise this type of infrastructure. Access to adequate and secure communications services in the north is central to the defence. It is essential in order to establish the necessary situational understanding as a basis for making correct decisions at the right time and for the various parts of the defence to be able to interact effectively in a cooperative context. This applies both in peacetime, in crisis and in war. Several allies have military presence in various parts of the Arctic. This is positive from the Norwegian side. We all want attention around the northern seas. It is therefore natural for Norway to cooperate with allied countries on communication solutions in the region, where appropriate. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has carried out a concept selection inquiry for broadband satellite communications in the Arctic. This, together with an external quality assurance and further treatment, was used as a basis for Prop. 55 S for 2017-2018, Space Norway AS and satellite communications project in the northern regions. The size is informed in the proposition that the capacity of the satellites will be used by the Norwegian defence, allies and international commercial actors. The Ministry of Defence has had informal dialogue with the United States on satellite communications and cooperation related to this project since the autumn of 2016. Space Norway's project is based on binding agreements with customers. The Ministry of Defence is planning to become one of these customers, given that the negotiations with Space Norway can be concluded. The U.S. has the intention of becoming a similar customer to the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry of Defence is also aware that Space Norway has dialogue with a potential commercial customer, who will provide commercial satellite communications services for the civil market with its payload and Space Norway satellites. The U.S. has signaled that they want to cooperate at authority level to discharge their responsibilities and rights towards Space Norway. In addition, the United States has signaled that they want access to the broadband capacity to which the Defence acquires rights through their agreement with Space Norway. Therefore, the United States and Norway have had non-binding bilateral talks on whether such a cooperation agreement can be established. In addition, the Department of Defence has participated in some of the informal technical talks between the United States and Space Norway, where it has been intended to clarify whether the US's payload could be integrated into Space Norway's satellites. As of today, there is no agreement between the United States and Norway related to the Space Norway project. The information in the media that such an appointment exists is incorrect. The Ministry of Defence has also not started formal negotiations, either with the United States or with Space Norway, but has planned to start such negotiations as soon as each of the parties confirms their desire to negotiate participation in the Space Norway project. The Department of Defense is aware that the United States is prepared to launch negotiations related to the Space Norway project. The Ministry of Defence is aware that Space Norway needs to enter into commitments with its customers by the first quarter of 2019. So there is no reorientation of Norwegian defence and security policy, as it is claimed. This confirms the firmness of the long lines of Norwegian defence and security policy. So a little bit to the proposal from the Lighthouse and the Moxnes. In this context, existing cooperation between the United States and Norway related to the Space Norway project speculates and may lead to increased security policy tensions. From my point of view, such a claim and analysis have no root in reality. Today, the development of space activities is primarily characterised by the commercial investment for the civil market. Developments in military space activities are also marked by increasing international cooperation. In space, all nations are small, and therefore cooperation is necessary, desirable and often a prerequisite, for both operational and economic reasons. The Ministry of Defence's commitment to space activities aims to be as civil as possible and as military as necessary. Cooperation within space activities is a stabilising factor that creates robustness and contributes to dialogue on common challenges and solutions. In fact, the United States and Russia are cooperating in several areas of space today. Cooperation with allies, including inter alia: The United States, of course, is a continuation of Storting's adopted defence policy. Finally, the Ministry of Defence has deliberately sought an open line on its cooperation internationally, including, inter alia: with the United States. Through open correspondence with allied nations, open conferences, media articles and interviews with, among others. The NRK has deliberately sought to raise awareness and transparency about the defence sector's commitment to space activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2449	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2454	Let me take this opportunity to thank the Council of State for the presentation. I'm going to challenge the state council on a more technical side of what came up. Here the concept usage is confusing, and it would have been good to get a clarification. They're talking about a payload on the Norwegian satellite, both in the form of a sensor and as a communication device. Can the Council clarify whether this is a communication device that is used as a relay, a telephone tower, or is it about other types of sensors such as radars, microwaves or other types of sensors?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2461	That's a very good question from the representative. This is about payload in the form of communication devices. It's one to the Norwegian defense, which is a broadband unit, and then the Americans have said that they'd like to hang one they call a small band. There are simpler, short, encrypted messages that go through that kind of communication. So we're not talking about sensors that some people have claimed. It's about communication devices.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2467	Then I thank you for the answer. Then I'm going to follow up with something else that has been suitable to confuse at least the undersigned in the debate. The media indicate that it should not be possible to listen to the US communication payload. Can the Council of State confirm, for the sake of order, that I have understood correctly, that the U.S. payload can in no way contribute to taking control of the satellite or listening to or disrupting other signals that go on other payloads on the satellite?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2474	Through the U.S. payload, encrypted communications will be downloaded to a Alaskan download station — encrypted communications.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2479	We've seen from the U.S. Congress that this has been a discussion there for a while. It is quite right that formal agreements have not been concluded, but I believe that agreements are something that comes about when the actors have a funding in place. In the United States, one is talking about the fact that there has already been an ‘event’ or ‘partnership’ between Norway and the U.S. military. General Jay Raymond, who is «head of Air Force Space Command», has said that «an arrangement with Norway will allow the military launch paysloads as many as three years earlier than planned». My question to the Council of State is: How long has the Ministry of Defence known about this cooperation that the Norwegian defense has had with the Americans?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2488	I refer to what I said in my post, that the Ministry of Defence has had an informal dialogue with the United States about satellite communications cooperation related to this project since the fall of 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2493	A close question to it is: does the Council of State see, when in the information that the Stortinget has received, both through the transparency of the concept evaluation and KS1, nothing about these dimensions in this satellite statement – that there may be an important fundamental discussion in which the Stortinget should be invited to attend, all the time the US Congress has discussed these pages?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2498	No, I can't see that. What we know, the fact of the matter, is that there are actually no questions of principle. There is no change in Norwegian policy. This is a continuation of the long lines. It's an allied cooperation that we have on very many levels. This is about communication. It's not about sensors that are supposed to control neither submarines, drones or other things, or that are supposed to jam something. It's about getting us something we need hurt, namely better communication in the Arctic. It's basically about a commercial-public cooperation where the defense has a small part to do and says that we have that need for capacity. If we put the speculations that have been in the media, on the table, you can ask a lot of questions, but if we put the facts – what we have explained – on the table, there's no reason to claim that you've been informed neither too little nor wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2503	We have understood that there is no signed contract or agreement. What we want to clarify is the reality of what comes from open military sources in the United States, including an open conference in Congress, more precisely if the decision of the Stortinge in the matter opens up so that the US military, including their nuclear submarine program, can use information from the satellites to which the Stortinge gave a conditional commitment, or if we can get a guarantee that the satellites cannot contribute to the U.S. military in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2508	We're talking about communications that go from somewhere on Earth up to a satellite and are downloaded to a download station. Each country has encrypted its communication. It will not be possible to regulate through any decision in Stortinget a ban on selling two mobile phones with cash cards in Norway where one is suddenly used from a nuclear submarine or from another satellite. This is simply about working together on communication. The US payload is of a kind that can't do very advanced things. It is an encrypted narrowband communication that cannot communicate with underwater submarines, among others. So it has strong limitations on other possibilities of communicating with submarines.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2513	It has to be interpreted as a clear response to the fact that we have no guarantee that the information can be used in the U.S. nuclear submarine program. I wonder if the Council of State has assessed the fact that the U.S. military itself perceives that the satellites they use for military purposes are particularly vulnerable to attacks by those who consider themselves threatened by the U.S. offensive military capabilities, for example. The US nuclear submarines, and the fact that linking Norwegian satellites in one way or another to the US military could also lead to the risk of attacking Norwegian satellites, and that Norway's satellite broadband access in the North could thus be put out of play if anything like that happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2520	I come from a part of the country where we have twice seen examples of the navigation satellites being jammed, so that civil boat traffic and civil aviation have had problems navigating GPS and had to use alternatives. In fact, I believe that we are ensuring Norway better by cooperating widely with allies. It can give us the opportunity to be present in many channels, it gives us the skills to counteract these kinds of problems, and it raises us a division in knowledge and competence. I note that there are some people who claim that this will put Norway in a difficult situation of security policy. I want to raise the opposite. This ensures the safety position of Norway. Here I register that the representative of Moxnes and I disagree. I believe that our membership in the NATO alliance secures us, while the representative of Moxnes probably believes that we should go out and stand more alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2529	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2535	I would like to start briefly by doing something for the business committee to deal with the original case, i.e. that of Space Norway and Prop. 55 S for 2017-2018. It got us March 23rd. The opinion of the Economic and Social Committee was put forward by an almost unanimous vote and was in line with the conclusions reached on 28 May. Saka was treated in Stortinget on 4 June. This is really about two things. The first question is, should one understand during the processing that these satellites were to be used for military purposes and by our allies? The answer to that is definitely yes. It is clear from the proposition: ‘The capacity of the satellites will be used by Norwegian defence, allies and international commercial actors.’ In the debate, the Council of State said that this was civil–military cooperation, but he also said it was public–private cooperation. It should be clear and not have the ability to surprise something special. I also stress that the debate highlighted the importance of strengthening broadband communication in the north. The central part and the working part showed in the setting of an insolence to put this in place and until earlier times it has been lifted in Stortinget. So over to the second question, and there gets every single party to do their thing for themselves. It is: was the information that has now come out, of such a nature that the Storting should have been informed about it while matters were being dealt with? It's the Center Party, among other things. by the representative of Navarsete to the NRK, has criticised, and I support – that this is enough information that would be necessary for the Stortinget to receive. Not least we would have avoided this extra round, which probably does not create any delay, but unnecessary noise around it. I won't be busy with anything else during this round, except that we need to be calm about this project. We need security to get it done. I mean, the discussion about the extent to which the government has given enough information to the Storting, or whether one should have given more, is not a matter of Space Norway. There is a matter that concerns the relationship between accumulation and government, which may have to be reconsidered if one is to come back later.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2551	Let me start with the mantra that the northern regions are Norway's most important strategic area. In order to safeguard our interests in those areas, it requires presence and presence. Housing, economic activity, exercise of authority and physical infrastructure are all elements of the necessary presence and presence. The Nordgebiet initiative covers a wide range of sectors and is an important policy of interest both at regional, national and, to some extent, at international level. While Norway has been active in the north, increasing interest in the north and the Arctic has also been seen in other countries outside the region. It's a problem that there are no good communication solutions north of about 71 degrees north, because the satellites in geostationary orbits come below the horizon when you're so far north. It has consequences. There could have been many examples of it, but the freshest example we saw last November in connection with the tragic accident in which eight Russians died when a helicopter crashed outside Barentsburg. In retrospect, it has been found that the lack of adequate communication solutions hampered the effectiveness of the search and rescue operation. This situation is the background to the proposal for a rapid solution presented by the undersigned and several representatives two years ago. It took longer than we imagined was necessary, but last week the Storting agreed to a solution to the challenge. Almost all activities will be dependent on digital communications, also in the north and in the Arctic. Today, for example, most of the maritime activity in the north of the Norwegian sector. We need to continue to facilitate its development and to be competitive. As I said in the debate last week, I believe that Norway also has a national strategic interest in further developing the infrastructure in the north. I also believe that the national interests are beyond what the government has laid down in the proposition. Both for these reasons and in order to meet the needs of the defence, it is important to put in place such a solution for communications in the north as soon as possible. The solution chosen, I said last week, must be open. It must be open in the form of both international cooperation, defence interests, authority interests – other authorities – and commercial interests. We have to work to get it into place. Meanwhile, I have jerked off in Washington and had the pleasure of attending a seminar organised by the Norwegian Embassy, the Woodrow Wilson Center and the Arctic Frontiers, which was about space activities and the role of the space industry in the development of the north. Nothing was more emphasised there than the importance of both putting in place communication solutions in the form of satellites, and the role of satellites in a different form and meaning. For me and the Labour Party, it is important to stress today that this matter is something much more than just security and defence issues. It's about facilitating people to live their lives in a good and modern way in the north, and it's about facilitating that there can be Norwegian business where we're going to invest in our future revenues. I want to stress that the United States is our leading ally and perhaps our most important ally. It cannot be alarming for anyone, either in this room or in the rest of the country, that we hear close dialogue, both formally and not least informally, on how we can develop our cooperation over time, both economically, culturally, through other types of people-to-people cooperation, and not least in terms of defence strategy and operationally defence. It's no surprise. It is also apparent from the proposition that it is relevant to this case. With regard to the proposals, the points, which have been promoted, and which we are discussing today, it is the Workers' Party's opinion – after hearing the statements we have received, together with the information contained in the proposal – that there is no basis for voting in favour of the proposals, the points, no. 1 and 2. As the Council of State has been involved, a postponement in the matter could mean that the entire project is being put to risk, and that we do not get the necessary broadband communications. As far as the last point is concerned, there is nothing that has emerged in this matter, which challenges the current defence or security policy, not even with regard to nuclear weapons, so that the Workers' Party will vote against all the three proposals that have been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2574	At the Grand Summit on 4 June this year, we will deal with the Innst. 330 S for 2017-2018, cf. Prop. 55 S for 2017-2018, to provide a contingent equity commitment limited up to 139 million. US dollars to Space Norway – this is because Space Norway AS has been tasked with implementing a planned project to strengthen satellite communications with panarctic coverage in the north. The setting was unanimously adopted in Stortinget last Monday. The Nordic regions are one of Norway’s most important strategic areas, and limited access to broadband communications in the north is a challenge for residents, businesses and not least for the performance of security and preparedness-related authority tasks, such as maritime rescue, oil preparedness and crisis management. Defence also needs stable and secure communication in operations in Norwegian waters. There has been a broad consensus in Stortinget to ensure better broadband communication coverage in the northern regions, most recently through representative proposals here in Stortinget from 2015/2016, and through the government's maritime strategy and Northern Region strategy. Through the decision taken in Stortinget just a little over a week ago, we were getting closer to finding a solution to this challenge. This must not help the Storting to then doubt. Because it seems that there are some people who want to so doubt the project and want to stop the progress. However, the decision to say yes to commitments was made under certain conditions, which are clearly stated in the proposal, and which were also reproduced in the decision of the Industry Committee. These conditions are: the project is not initiated until contracts with customers that ensure an income flow throughout the project period have been concluded; all clients shall cover their share of the investment costs and operating costs; the project is not initiated without, firstly, generating the desired return, secondly, ensuring sufficient liquidity throughout the entire duration of the project and, last but not least, ensuring that the project meets the military broadband needs of the defence under Norwegian control; The right supports the assessment that there are real societal needs that call for increased capacity for satellite communications in the northern regions. The northern regions are, as I and several others have said several times, Norway's main strategic responsibility. The presence and ability of the Norwegian authorities to operate in these areas is an essential element of the Northern Region policy. Stable and secure communication solutions are an essential factor in this. It is important to put in place capacity that can also meet the defence needs. It has been assessed through the proposal that was addressed last week in such a way that it is Space Norway’s project that meets the societal needs for communication in the northern regions. The project, which facilitates the sale of capacity in the commercial market, provides an opportunity to meet these needs at a lower cost than if this were to be realised as a purely State investment. Space Norway’s project is considered to be the most cost-effective way to meet Norwegian user needs in the northern regions. It is a paradox that this is being promoted by a representative proposal from SV and Red, who has claimed to be concerned about security and preparedness for us who live and operate in the north. The same parties will now stop such an important matter, which will actually contribute to providing security and security for us who live and work in the northern regions. I shall end by saying that the Right, Left and Advance Party will vote against the SV and Red's proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2603	First, because it's a little unclear in the Ebbesen article: The proposal is to put it 'in peace' until the Stortinget has got a fundamental discussion about what this project contains. And that's in many ways the core of this question. Because I think that a quick can be blinded by what the result is, and then a bow jumps over the important role that the Storting should have in clarifying important questions of principle – that is, that a person is willing as long as he becomes the right path. What's interesting is if you go into the case and look at the process – and I joined the treatment on 4 June. I have previously raised the issue of a greater commitment to Norwegian space strategy. Together with representatives from the Workers' Party, we have been given an assurance that the government will deliver a space strategy, which the Minister of Industry is supposed to have on his table and is currently working with. We're anxious to wait for his contents. We want a much more ambitious space strategy and we're excited about it. When we dealt with the matter on 4 June, this was in this way a progress. This created a better situation for communication in the Nordic region – super. But then it turns out that Stortinget has not received sufficient information. The question here is also about information of the kind of principle that this is about, has been made available to those who have also done the distribution part of the job here, i.e. the KS scheme. And there is no doubt, I believe, that at Stortinget there is complete agreement that the KS system – i.e. concept currency, KS1 and KS2 etc. – is an important tool to ensure that decisions made by the Storing and the Government are based on sound distribution. The history here is quite interesting, because this is a KS process that has continued on record. He started in June, when Space Norway carried out its first investigation on behalf of the EY consulting company. Then a KVU was completed and completed by Menon in August 2017, and the KS1 report was completed in October 2017. There was a very high rate of output, and it shows that you've had a lot of time to get this in place. There might be a lot of reasons for that. The KS1 report concluded that the zero option was the most appropriate option, i.e. that one should not introduce this guarantee. Their assessment was that this form of technological development in the north was already under way because there were enough strong market forces to get it in place. The ministry was not satisfied with the conclusion that came from KS1, and that is a special situation. We know the transportation field, where half of all KS processes are conducted. Mostly the department follows the KS rounds, but in this case one did not. Then, on the basis of what they had done for Space Norway, the EY, the consulting company, got a new assessment from them, where they raised the income potential and the cash flows of the project. And that was on the background the department saw the basis to move on. But in no part of the process, nor in the concept selection process that Menon did, one can find this fundamental discussion. Nor can this fundamental discussion be found in KS1 even if it is expressed in the second paragraph of Chapter 2-2 of the instruction: ‘Where the measure concerns questions of principle, the investigation shall discuss them in a balanced, systematic and holistic manner.’;» It has not been done. I think that the Storting should be very concerned that one should follow that kind of rules. But in this case, it seems like one – as the result was after its own political over-interpretation, and there are multiples for that on the Storting – can in some way ignore the rules we have here on the house when it is due to be thorough in the distribution. What I mean is a very dangerous way to go. It's a very little principle way to go. And that makes me think that a principle-oriented magnification would have seen its foot down and asked for a proper, principled assessment. I have no doubt as to what the conclusion of it would be: simply to say to the government, to different instances associated with these decision-making processes, that these kind of fundamental discussions should be part of the Storting as the Norwegian People's Assembly. It has not happened. Therefore, I believe that these proposals are entirely in place, and I take up the representative proposal from SV and Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2627	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to. If we are debating, we are talking about telecommunications in the north of the 65th parallel. The two satellites of Space Norway AS with the associated ground infrastructure will provide sufficient full-day broadband coverage for residents and businesses in the north. In today's society, where technology develops rapidly, it is more important than ever with good, stable and secure infrastructure. Representatives Lysbakken and Moxnes report a coverage in the NRK that the U.S. defense has purchased a connection on the satellites to Space Norway AS. As the Minister of Industry and several other speakers before me, I would also like to refer to a quote from page 2, second paragraph, in Prop. [[(2017-2018):]] 55 S I understand ‘allierte’ as a member country of NATO including the United States. The need for better satellite communications in the north is great, and it is problematic if the resolution is again pushed out in time, as proposed by the proposers. The Christian People's Party believes that, in the debate, we must distinguish between what concerns satellites and what concerns the government's information obligations vis-à-vis the Stortinget. The Christian People's Party will therefore vote against the proposals of SV and Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2645	Since 1957, it has been official Norwegian policy to avoid any occupation of nuclear weapons. It is both ethically correct and important for Norway’s safety. Furthermore, for a long time in Norwegian democracy, there has been a consensus that the Storting must have confidence in the government, trust that when the government asks the elected representatives for appropriations and commitments, the Stortinget will know what the money actually goes to, and what the real consequences of what we vote for. Today, it seems that the Solberg government has broken both of these principles. On 4 June this year, the Stortinget voted to make a conditional commitment of just over 1 billion. kr to Space Norway to ensure satellite broadband capacity in the northern regions. Of course, red is for the improvement of digital infrastructure in the north. It is good for the population, society in general, business, fisheries and not least the defence of Norway. So, two days after the landfill, the NRK discovers that the U.S. military have completely different plans for the use of the satellites than the ones above. In a U.S. Congress hearing on March 15 this year, General John W. Raymond said that there is a partnership between the United States and the Norwegian Ministry of Defence on satellite communications for military use in the North. The consultation shows that the Norwegian satellites are to be used by the US military, which also appears to include the US nuclear submarines. In the case it is mentioned, in a confession, that it opens up for allied use of the satellites. But there's nothing to say that the government asked for it in Prop. 55 S for 2017-2018, could mean an opening for the Norwegian satellites to be used in the US nuclear programme. The size should be known if Stortinget has received insufficient information from the government, and whether we have given an undertaking without having been told what kind of project the commitment can be used for. In addition, the case has some important security policy dimensions. If it is the case that the Solberg government is now opening up Norway's direct involvement in support functions for US offensive military capabilities in the northern regions, including Norwegian waters near Russia, it will, after all, lead to the Russians looking at Norway with new and perhaps less friendly eyes. In particular, whether nuclear submarines are concerned. Another element is that open military sources in the United States express concern that satellite communications to the United States military will be attacked by countries that feel threatened by the offensive military capabilities of the United States. It seems to be an essential part of the motivation that Americans want to use other countries' satellites for their military units. This, in turn, means that connecting Norwegian satellites to the US military means an increased risk of satellites being attacked by states that feel threatened by the United States. In turn, broadband access for the north, for which the government has argued well, will be much more vulnerable than necessary. It is good that the Councils of State have set up today, after we received an urgent response to the joint proposal from Red and SV to re-examine the matter. But unfortunately today's round has shown that we had every reason to have great concern about what was the implications of the matter, and what was not sufficiently disclosed, namely that we are now opening up for the Americans to get information from the satellites that can be used in their offensive nuclear submarine program, which can again put the satellites that we're shooting up at risk. That is why there is good reason to address the proposals we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2662	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 10 and 11 are processed together. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2691	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2700	I would first like to thank the Committee for its work on these two issues. It's been a pretty quick treatment. I am pleased that a Joint Committee recognises that the ongoing rail reform is a strong commitment to infrastructure and better organisation of the sector. A new and better organisation of Norwegian railways has been a long way off for many years. Although there are disagreements about parts of the rail reform, there has been a broad awareness that something should be done with the organisation of the Norwegian rail sector in order to have a good train offer in the future. I am also pleased that an overall committee is gathering around the goal of rail reform, which is that passengers and businesses should receive an even better offer, while ensuring that railway appropriations are used as efficiently as possible. Through the railway reform, the Left helped to take important steps to develop future train provision. Better coordination, more local collective services, long-term planning of new lines and holistic thinking provide – in combination with opening up competition – better provision for passengers. The railway must remain a public responsibility and the State must be responsible for the ownership of the infrastructure, for the coordination and management of traffic and for the development of the role of the railway. One proposal debated today is the transfer of activities by staff when the traffic package is published. In this context, it is important for us to point out that the Railway Package South was declared in accordance with the applicable legislation of the Railway Act. This means that the rules we have for business transfer always apply to competition for passenger services, which means that all NSB employees will be able to continue in their jobs, even if there may be a new player running the trains. This legislation does not apply to sub-contractors and services, which are the subject of this proposal, but the Working Environment Act opens up the possibility for employees to be transferred if a winning company chooses a device and location for the activity corresponding to today's activity. In addition, the legislation requires that all employees, including those working for the subcontractors of the train companies, have pay and working conditions which are no lower than those normal for the profession. This is very important to us. So it's important for us to be humble. The railway reform is new work, and we must learn from the processes involved. Therefore, the railway packages are released one by one in the coming years. The second proposal under discussion today concerns privatisation and operation and maintenance on the Eastfold Railway. Here, too, we have to gain experience, and the Eastfold Railway has been pointed out by Bane NOR as an experiential route for the outsourcing of operations and maintenance. The proposal shall be discussed at the trade unions and the decisions have not yet been taken. If the Bane NOR proposal is to be implemented, it means that the competence in the operation and maintenance of Bane NOR is employed by the company winning the tender. Path NOR has been commissioned to build up and operate more railways per invested crown. The measures we are debating today are two possible steps to achieve this. SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party are chronically opposed to parts of the railway reform, because it launches the traffic on the track at the same time as all material – rails, etc. – remain state-owned. Interestingly, they also welcome the Oslo–Stockholm 2.55 initiative, which will be a fully privatised route from Oslo to Stockholm, as they did in the debate on the Oslo–Stockholm concept selection investigation a short time ago. Oslo–Stockholm 2.55 is a very interesting initiative, and if the figures there are correct, I believe that this is an important measure that we really should take. Finally, I hope – and believe – that we are left with a reform that is as successful as the Avinor reform in the early 2000s. This also encountered opposition from the opposition, and today the model is embraced as if they had started the work themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2721	I will give the case rapporteur one thing, at least, and that is that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are engaged in the railway connection between Oslo and Stockholm. That is why we also wanted to see both the scheme presented by Oslo–Stockholm 2.55 and other initiatives. But the Left effectively ensured that the proposal we had about getting an investigation of it, and going deeper into it, was voted down. And then we're left here. Once again, we are discussing the so-called railway reform. I would say, as the rapporteur also said: the opposition has not been critical just to parts of the railway reform, we are opposed to the so-called railway reform. I say ‘so-called’, because the term ‘reform’ in the Norwegian language includes an understanding that we are doing something to do something better. It is highly uncertain whether the rail reform will lead to better rail services in Norway, but if it is certain that it will lead a number of new companies, entities and companies to manage our rail system. Another thing that is absolutely certain is that it goes beyond the pay, employment and pension conditions of railway employees. We now have a railway system in which the route offer is set by the authorities – and it should only be lacking – the ticket system is set by the authorities, and the material to be used by the different companies that win tenders is also defined. This is simply because the winning companies, which win tenders at the expense of the NSB, have to compete for, are employee pay, employment and pension conditions – as simple and as difficult as this. So far in the discussion about the so-called railway reform, we have been assured that only the traffic is to be put on the market. The infrastructure shall be the responsibility of the State. But now we see that it's Bane NOR and the infrastructure that stands for strike – now it's the operation of infrastructure. Of course, the state should own the railway, it should just be missing – no one is so crazy that they would suggest anything else, I don't even think this government would suggest. But the operation of the infrastructure is what we're talking about, now it's also going to be put off for competition. The Eastfold Railway is what you initially set up as a trial project – and who is going through it? Well, of course, it's the employees of Bane NOR, who are now very sceptical about what's going on, if the board of Bane NOR goes on with the test scheme for the Eastfold Railway. As far as I can see, it's to be decided in September. It was said in the past that the railway reform should not affect the pay and working conditions of employees. I have been on the Lion Hill with colleagues from the Transport Committee during the previous period. Abid Raja, for example, where is he now? It's quiet. He promised the railway employees that it would not affect their working conditions. Others from the government parties and those who have supported the so-called railway reform have said the same thing. So it shouldn't affect the employees. Now we see that's exactly what's going on. The so-called Traffic Package 1 South – rail traffic on Sørlands-, Arendals- and Jærbanen – is first out. It has already been announced by the government, and the deadline for applications for operators has expired. I understand that it is more complicated than expected, and that there is something going on before the government decides who will win the bid. There is legislation so that running personnel, i.e. conductors, drivers, etc., get a transfer of business if a new company wins, i.e. the employees are starting to work in the new company. However, this does not apply to clean-up and maintenance staff — they are not guaranteed business transfer, as driving personnel are. That is something we really need to learn today from the Minister of Transport and the representatives of the government parties and the majority: why can't one also provide for the rights and working conditions of those who work in the areas of cleaning and maintenance? Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. 1, 2 and 3 in case 10 and proposal No. 1 on case 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2738	The representative Sverre Myrli has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2743	Public sector tenders are not new; on the contrary, it is common to invest in goods, services and infrastructure. The purpose of the tender is to ensure the correct price at the desired quality; it is not the case that tenders are merely a game of price. Tenders are based on a clearly defined framework covering both scope and quality. These are the pre-qualification of the tenderers concerned, clearly defined objectives and the financial framework. The advantage of tenders is that operators may make different proposals for practical solutions. There are significant opportunities for innovation in a tendering process. In addition, there is a risk-sharing between orders and executions. Tenders are well known in public transport. Most counties have today set up public transport companies. Router AS is such a company. Here, buses and boat transport are offered at regular intervals. There has been the key to a significant shift towards more environmentally friendly modes of transport. On the other hand, rail transport is not subject to competition, here the benchmarking is the instrument. However, whether this is appropriate from the user’s point of view, questions may be asked. In Bergen Citybanen is run by the French company Keolis AS. It works well. Today we are discussing two representative proposals. One is to stop the privatisation of the operation and maintenance of the Eastfold Railway. The second is to ensure the transfer of activities of railway employees. For both of them, they are linked to the implementation of the railway reform. This is what appears to be another attempt to reverse the reform. The experience of the pre-railway reform was marked by the fact that the Railway Agency itself took care of most operational and maintenance tasks. It was only in periods when there was extra effort, that private enterprises were withdrawn. As a result, it was difficult to establish a private market for operation and maintenance. The feedback from these companies was that the volume of contracts varied considerably from year to year and did not provide a basis for continuous operation. This caused the environment to deteriorate. With the railway reform, an alternative Norwegian market for railway operations and maintenance tasks was sought. Therefore, the fact that Bane NOR looks at the possibilities for competitive outsourcing of operations and maintenance is a proper and important grip. On the right, the draft representative, Document 8:228 S for 2017-2018, is not adopted. Path NOR has set in motion many more cost-effective processes in order to make better use of railway appropriations, including the appropriations for maintenance and operation. The goal is to get more for each invested krone, so that the offer to passengers gets better. Competitive deployment of operations and maintenance can be a path to the goal of more railways for money, but also trigger innovation and secure employment in the private sector. The ongoing rail reform represents a sharp increase in investment in infrastructure and better organisation of the sector. More competition for the provision of good services is open to passengers and businesses in order to obtain a better offer, while ensuring that railway appropriations are used as efficiently as possible. However, it is important to stress that public ownership and infrastructure control are maintained. The reform involves the launching of rail transport packages in the coming years, in order to gain experience on the road. The railway package South has already been announced and the deadline for applications for providers has expired. The Committee points out that the contract signature is expected in October 2018 with a traffic start for bidding wins from December 2019. The right considers that, in order to increase the socio-economic profitability and more railways for the money, a more commercial device is needed by the railway sector. Today's organisation provides weaker incentives to develop a better product for customers, both train passengers and freight companies. For climate reasons, greater growth in passenger traffic must be taken by rail and more of the freight transport must be moved from road to rail and sea. The competition to operate passenger services is organised in such a way that train companies have a separate interest in retaining and attracting new travellers. An important principle for achieving improvements is to leave to the actors themselves to organise operations as they consider most appropriate in order to deliver better quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2770	At least the government's work on competitive outsourcing has given the country more bureaucracy, and the railway reform has given us a new directorate. A new administrative body has therefore been set up under the Ministry of Transport. I looked at the organization map. There are a total of 25 blocks, and the lines between the boxes are both continuous and absent. The railway reform has also resulted in the creation of a number of companies: one for tickets, one for operation and the other for the track itself, one for rolling stock and one for travel planning. Each of these companies has its director and a staff to manage the administrative services. The centre party believes this is a build-up of bureaucracy – not a reduction. The goal of the reform is to be better and cheaper services, and we have asked where to take the cuts, without any government response. It is the pay, employment and pension conditions of those added that will be challenged if the service is to be maintained. During this week there has been a look in the newspaper about which defeats have hurt the Prime Minister the most during this period. Among the points are both the tightening up of the conditions in the employment agencies – i.e. the possibility of hiring without pay between jobs – and the clarification of collective bargaining requirements that allow trade unions to lower their feet. It is also mentioned that there have been more losses for the government in terms of pay and working conditions in outsourcing. Here we see clearly the dividing lines between the liberal blue-blue government, which opens up to repressing the conditions of the workers, and those of us who want a predictable and orderly working life, who do not insist on increasing the differences in society. Social dumping is a term that some people use in this context. The Solvik-Olsen Council of State considers, in response to the Committee, that it must be the responsibility of the undertaking to set up its operations, and it does not show any will for political governance – only to put off competition. The centre party thinks this is unfortunate. For many decades, the NSB has provided good rail service to travellers. In the European context, the Norwegian network is small and transparent. The basis for competition under market conditions is low, as most of the routes depend on state scheduled purchases in order to operate. Today, this is controlled by a state-owned company rather than by publicising services. We believe that this can be a good model for the Norwegian railway system. We believe that the Norwegian railway had strengthened if one had organized it more comprehensively, and we could gather responsibility under the same company, as one sees in large railway nations like Germany and France. Responsibility for operation, maintenance and management in the same organisation would give economies of scale. I would like to refer to the United Kingdom which has implemented a similar reform that Norway is now implementing. The cost of the railway has doubled around there, and the ticket prices for the passengers are about 40 pst. higher than in other European countries. The centre party believes that adapting to such a system with such great consequences does not serve the railway or the travellers. The centre party has wanted to stop the work on the competitive outsourcing of passenger services by train. We haven't succeeded that far, but if we can't do that, employee business transfer is a remedial measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2785	In this post I want to talk about the Eastfold Railway. It is a well-known case that good right-wing policy is to privatise public enterprises where it is so-called the right to do so. I guess that means something like that can happen where it's not noticed, or where there's not so much popular resistance to it. That is why this government is also the best in the class in terms of the EU's sluggish supranational demands for rail package IV, which we are about to overcome. The Government and the Solvik-Olsen have launched large-scale tendering on a voluntary basis, long before the EU so requires, and of course this is a good right-wing policy. With the suspension of the operation and maintenance of the Eastfold Railway, the Government takes a further step forward. Now there is no longer a tender for the operation of trains on specified routes only – no, now my core activity in Bane NOR must indeed be put to tender. The operating and maintenance department has about 2,000 employees, as I understand it, and is now part of the core business of Bane NOR. When assessing the outsourcing in the private sector, management tends to think about what the core business of that enterprise is. What are our support functions, if any, that are those that are not completely central, they might ask. And then they might find out that there's something that can pay off or put out bids to others. That might be a little bit of an understanding for SV. But in this case, we think it is completely wrong at all to consider competitive outsourcing. We believe that the core business of Bane NOR is to plan and carry out the operation and maintenance of the Norwegian railway network, as well as building new ones. It has to do with an important societal task, it has to do with certainty, and it has to do with the management of a crucial infrastructure in society. So the resolution is not planned to be enshrined in the Stortinget as a concrete matter. As a result of decisions taken in connection with the rail reform, Bane NOR will privatise tasks suitable for this purpose. Privatisation of operation and maintenance in general, and of the Eastfold Railway in particular, SV considers that it is entirely inappropriate, because for several reasons it is particularly problematic. What we are absolutely convinced of is that privatisation leads to the fragmentation and pulverisation of responsibility. That's a crucial point. It's going to be irrevocable. Railway maintenance is complex and already requires coordination by many actors, as it is. If these tenders are put off, coordination will be even more difficult. The chaos associated with Folloban is one example of this. Then there's another point. Path NOR will in some ways lose some of their ordering skills, i.e. the knowledge they have for ordering a tender. What's really going to be bought? What are they going to ask for? What criteria should they set? Some of this professional knowledge gets lost, at least it gets weakened. In addition, the Eastfold Railway is a very busy track, where stability and predictability are important factors in implementing effective train operation. So starting the company split-up there's extra bad luck. Already now, after we have just seen the beginning of the fragmentation of railway responsibility, there was criticism from the National Audit Office this winter that there have been little precise targets and lack of overall planning. Governance has little been designed to absorb the effects of the investments made, and in this case total use of a total of 18 billion was involved. kr for rail use, without significantly improving the offer made to travellers. So they're talking about a lack of coordination now, and then you can wonder what's going on with that fragmentation. This is a serious question that we have to address. What is perhaps most disappointing is not first and foremost that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have the attitude they have. It's kind of expected. But it is very bad that the Christian People's Party is involved in this and does not support SV's proposal. It's very sad. They tend to be concerned with road safety and with the good organisation of stations, and they are not at all obliged by previous decisions and agreements since they can easily argue that this field is not suitable for outsourcing. Then I just want to finish by quoting the head of the Swedish Transport Committee, Karin Svensson Smith from the Environmental Party – we also met her when we visited Stockholm: When the railway works well, it is like a symphony orchestra. And then you get the idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2810	There are two slightly different issues that are being debated now. They're both about the work on betting on the train, making it more competitive, more user-friendly and more forward-looking. First, a comment on the proposal on business transfer. It should not be a surprise to anyone that the Christian People's Party does not support the proposal as formulated, but I would like to take the opportunity to underline the importance of caring for the employees in these processes. Now that some reforms are being undertaken in the railway sector, it is important that all employees are properly cared for. I've said that before, but I like to repeat it, because it can be demanding processes for everyone involved. The launch of competition is part of the reform process, and the current tendering process is part of the reform process adopted by the Storting. The SV's proposal would lead to a halt in an ongoing tendering process. The consideration of employees is important in a tendering process. It is therefore also important that the rules on transfer of activities apply in the tender announced, precisely in order to ensure the rights of employees. I have no reason to believe that these processes are not carried out in line with the contract work. I trust that the government will take responsibility, provide for orderly processes and implement the Storting decision in a good and proper way – not least with regard to the employees. With regard to the proposal to stop the outsourcing of operations and maintenance on the Eastfold Railway, it is Bane NOR who, if appropriate, assesses whether this is a properly selected route to start with and what is the right time, if any. Path NOR is through Meld. St. 27 for 2014-2015 provided an opportunity to assess the competitive outsourcing of, for example, operational and maintenance tasks. The Christian People's Party believes it is right that transport modes and businesses within the sector have a professional freedom to take the measures they consider to be rational and appropriate for their sector. This is the policy that the Christian People's Party has faced over time, and once we have given Bane NOR a mandate, we must have Bane NOR make his judgements. Having said that, I assume, of course, that Bane NOR is making the necessary adjustments, whether it is right to put operations and maintenance on the Eastfold Railway on offer now. Among other things, there is a need to: be safe on the documentation available and ensure that the state of the art is so well documented that the performance of operational and maintenance tasks can be outsourced to others without problems. Path NOR is responsible for the state control, and the follow-up of the suppliers is also an important task for Path NOR. If Bane NOR were to come to the conclusion that they feel unsafe about whether the time is now right for putting out operations and maintenance tasks, I expect that a person is waiting for the outsourcing and is honest that this may not be the right route or the right time to do so. Let me put it this way: we don't want any of the money that comes from looting and stealing for the customers on the Eastfold Railway due to misassessments at Bane NOR. Let it be clearly communicated from the Christian People's Party from this pulpit. But let's now listen to Bane NOR and wait for what they come to in their conclusions. The railway reform, in the view of the Christian People's Party, provides for a completely necessary renewal of the railway sector. The Christian People's Party is behind the reform. It is nothing more to wait for than that the red-green try to rematch in this matter, but the Christian People's Party does not intend to turn around. We are firmly committed to what we have said, even when we have discussed the reform in the past. Railways must play a central role in the transport sector and must become more and more important. To achieve this, the sector needs to be structured and organised in such a way as to maximise the return of society to the increased use of resources. We need to renew ourselves. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will carry out the railway reform, aimed at ensuring better quality, increased frequency and predictability for customers. Of course, the railway must continue to be a public responsibility. The State shall continue to own, be responsible for the infrastructure, for the coordination and management of traffic and for the development of the role of the railway. Operation and maintenance may be put at a competitive disadvantage if the conditions are met. So in this case, in the case of the Eastfold line as an experience section, it's now up to Bane NOR to make the professional assessments. We therefore support the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2838	The railway reform is one of the most backward and backward things that Solvik-Olsen has invented in its time as the Council of State. It will give a worse, more expensive and more bureaucratic railway, which we see clearly today. Trustees of Mantena, who were separated from the NSB for the maintenance of the train sets, have now discovered that the clean-up and maintenance staff are not guaranteed a transfer if a new operator would win the tender. This means that the 500 employees involved will lose their jobs if a new actor wins the bidding round. So the right-hand side says, well, it's just looking at their job again – but it's not like that. Over many years, employees have fought for their pay and pension entitlements. They disappear if it is not a business transfer. Then it is not your job you are applying for, but a job with worse conditions. This is the core of and the cause of the ongoing crisis we see in the air ambulance service, where the competent personnel disappear. Now Solvik-Olsen will do the same rear-verse, incomprehensible and devastating grip within the railway. Also on the Eastfold course are those who ensure that the train sets function and the experience becomes comfortable for the travellers, exposed. Path NOR will use the Eastfold track as a so-called test section for the operation and maintenance of the tender. That's a bad suggestion. It has been tested in Sweden and the experience is clear: increased costs in terms of administration and multiple stops in traffic due to an increased number of errors. We have problems with full trains and getting flights on the railway. Privatisation and fragmentation are not fixed. The customers are there. There won't be any more of them with more tenders on the railway. The fact that we have full trains and few flights is due to restrictions on the infrastructure and that less than 6 pst. of the rail network are double tracks. The rest are single tracks, which greatly restricts the number of trains available. Corresponding limitations are also created by the lack of stables, service stations, workshop capacity, etc. We remember that in 2016 the NSB returned a solid profit to the community from the companies that have now been separated. So this surplus will no longer put the government back in the welfare state. They would rather distribute it in profit to companies that win tenders on the routes. It is a completely incomprehensible, backward and destructive policy. For the autumn, Stortinget will deal with the fourth rail package from the EU. Now, the EU will force us to outsource passenger traffic, and we have a government that unfortunately wants to be the best in the EU and Brussels sub-class, with the Progress Party in government. Three years ago, the government introduced a reform that broke up the NSB and introduced many different companies, each responsible for its function on the railway. Now the companies have to order services from each other, and then what happens? Well, if it says on a sheet that a rail needs to be repaired, those who are out fixing that rail can't at the same time take away some bushes that come dangerously close to the wires, because then they have to have a new order from the ordering unit. This is very good to ensure growth in bureaucracy, but it is not a very good idea if the goal is the best possible railway for passengers. Those who serve for cleaners and workshop workers to lose their jobs are the increasing number of top managers in the companies that win the tenders. Red supports SV's proposal and is very pleased that the Workers' Party is now moving towards rail package IV. That fight is going to be tough, and we are going to fight every single track exchange against the submissive attitude of the Progress Party towards Brussels and the EU and for the benefit of passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2858	It's good that one discusses the railway, but let's take a look at what's happening around us, and not just attend internal party meetings. There are more departures now than in 2013. We're using over 7 billion. kr more on rail in 2018 than in 2013. There are more train sets, more drivers under training, more travelers and better customer satisfaction now than in 2013. After hearing the speaker of the opposition, a few impressions could be that it is the opposite that has happened. So that's not the case. It's a little strange that the last speakers and the ones before him give the impression that everything is moving in the negative direction, when the fact is the opposite. It is a little difficult to hold a good, factual debate when the black paint takes completely over. Our government, a bourgeois majority, with the good support of the Christian People's Party, has made sure of the time on the railways because we want more people to travel by rail. When I travel around and visit our infrastructure projects, both those that are being built, those that are being maintained, and those that are operating, I meet many actors who work in private business, and who stress how important it is to have good management, who stress how important it is to have good involvement, and who feel that it is happening. A few weeks ago, I was on the Solution and got to join in and get the OPS project started. 3 / rv. 25-digit number When I met the employees in Skanska, everyone pointed out how good it was in the company – because they were properly treated. Based on the speeches from the opposition, one could believe that these private companies only competed to pay their employees as badly as possible, taking the pensions, that that's the way they were going to win the construction projects. I have not yet met a single contractor who has approached Norwegian infrastructure construction to treat the employees badly. On the contrary, they know it's the most important resource they have. Getting the employees to work well together, getting a streamline, so you don't have to have an order on one and one, but people see the overall responsibility they have, is the way to get more out of the resources. That's how you win the competition against other actors – not by thinking like old Communist countries that everything will be done, but on the contrary by giving responsibilities and opportunities to solve it on the floor by delegating the authority there. Therefore, the Norwegian entrepreneurial market is cheering that we have competition to build and maintain our roads, build railways and ports. It's precisely because it's what stimulates development and to get a lot of money back. That's the same thing we're going to do here. I know no one who says that Norwegian road network is privatized just because Skanska or the AF Group are involved in building it. On the contrary – these are publicly available common goods, but we build and maintain them in the most efficient way possible. The opposition has repeatedly opposed the reforms we have implemented. Actually, I think it is good that they confirm it, because New Roads are working. With that we have saved an estimated 30 million. kr so far. And OPS works. The road system saves 1.5 billion dollars. kr on one contract. I have also registered the railway reform that some people are criticizing because it costs money to reorganize the railway. Yeah, it's about $1.3 billion. Total kr. But the gain has doubled. Who here would say no to spend $10 on a lot if they knew they were guaranteed a win of at least $20? It's a little strange to hear an opposition who won't look at the winnings, just on a coin – it costs money, and then they don't want it. Already now, the OPS project on Red has more than saved all the costs we have had with our reforms. The rest is a net gain, and it's a net gain that we still hear resistance from the opposition to. Path NOR shall continue to be responsible for the infrastructure. Already during the previous government there were tenders for the maintenance, operation and construction of infrastructure. So that's nothing new. Only competition in the carriage of goods was initiated under the previous government. So once again, competition is not a new element, but we're using it even better. And that's where Bane NOR, who is responsible, is going to make sure that they learn through experience before they put it in a big way. That is why this project on the Eastfold Railway is important, in the same way as tenders for passenger train services on the Southland Railway. We're going to make sure that this is done properly. The last thing we have to do is – with the opposition's approach – take customers for granted. If you think the only variable on the railway is the payroll of people, you should go out on the railway and look at how we're going to make it more attractive for more people to travel and give revenues to the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2877	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2882	The pieces fall into place. I understand the approach of the Minister of Transport when he now presents the railway as a solid lottery, where he sells lots to those who might be interested. This government wants operators other than the NSB to run trains. This government states, and has stated, that it is good if other actors – at the expense of the NSB – take over rail passenger traffic. When the government is gradually putting railway traffic into traffic packages, on a tender basis, running personnel, conductors and drivers will be subject to the rules on business transfer. My question is quite simply: why does the Minister for Transport not want this to apply to cleaners and workshop workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2891	Let me first say that the Norwegian railway should not be a lottery. But that is exactly what has been the case when you have had such poor maintenance of the infrastructure for many decades – it was a lottery whether the train came or not, whether it was on the route or not. That's exactly why we've doubled the allocation to the railway, so people have to trust it. What I'm saying is, if you can get a profit from investing in conversion, investing in better tools, we should do that and not just look at the cost as lost money. That's what the Workers' Party once again confirms that they can't take over when a twist like that is what I said. In all tenders there is a code of conduct for the transfer of activities. It also applies in this case. It is the same legislation that the Workers' Party has been and has been governed by. Once there have been tenders and competitions before, there have been the same things with regard to the transfer of activities and how to treat employees. We will ensure that the legislation is adhered to point-to-point and that it becomes a business transfer at the operator level.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2898	As usual, there's no answer to my question at all, but we're going to use the rest of the debate to dig in it. This afternoon, while we've been sitting here, we've been informed that Health South-East scraps billions of dollars apart from ICT for a foreign company. It happens after several hundred million dollars have been spent – and several million will be spent. This happens after patient information for many hundreds of thousands of Norwegians has been publicly available abroad. But this government does not learn. It continues with the launching, tenders, outsourcing and what one calls it, now also for the railway sector. My question is: is there no limit to what this government wants to tender?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2907	Yes, of course there are. We use tenders for the benefit of the citizens, the taxpayers and not least those who are to receive the services. That's why we're also going to be careful about how we start this, that we have one package of train offers, one section of maintenance. It is a bit strange to create a notion that before everything was good, but that it has now suddenly become a lot of tender for all sorts of strange things. I just want to remind you that when the Workers' Party crashed, there was competition in freight trains. Almost all road construction was based on tenders. The county rapporteur in Trøndelag, Labour Party man Tore O. Sandvik, boasts that they have made the largest collective offer in Norway. It's a little strange that tenders are made on ferries, on planes, on buses, and on almost everything else, but that just when it comes to the railway, the extra offer is now coming, cruel. The tenders that the Workers' Party itself had when they ran were fine, and it shows that this is more an ideological game than reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2914	When something's too good to be true, it's kind of funny. If the railway reform is like the lottery the minister described – you buy a lot of $10, and everyone is guaranteed a win of $20 – who is going to pay the deficit in this lottery? And who is to pay for the negative effects of the railway reform? As I know this government, centralization is job number one, and I fear that it is the districts that have to pay the employees, that there are people in the districts who have to pay. But this is still denied by the minister. Does he not see any disadvantages in rail reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2921	This government has made sure that we build infrastructure in the districts to a greater extent than the Center Party has ever succeeded. We ensure that we maintain the infrastructure in the districts to a greater extent than the Senter Party has succeeded. We make sure that school development and hospitals in the districts go better now than when the Center Party crashed. It's not centralization, what we're experiencing right now, but I hear that the Center Party is more concerned with cultivating prejudices than actually discussing the different challenges ahead of us. We're making sure that we're building more railways that bind District Norway together. We're going to make sure that we maintain more railways than the Center Party managed. This will strengthen the districts. I can't quite take over the statements that come here, because they're simply not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2928	It's important to have good and correct information for Stortinget when we're in this room. The Council of State boasts – and it is very positive when it comes to the railways and the traffic base there. But I have a statistic here that was produced by the SSB on May 28th this year, which shows that there is actually a decrease of 1 pst. in the number of passengers on the railway. It is in contradiction with what the Council of State said here and said that there is growth in the number of passengers on the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2933	If one reads the footnotes below that statistics, it says that because a new method of counting was introduced in 2017, the figures will differ from the previous statistical basis. So it's a growth. If one had counted the same way, one set would still be a growth. If you look at the numbers that NSB has, and not the SSB numbers, it's a growth. It's a little bit of a challenge when you get automatic counting methods in relation to the old ones, that a sudden desire has a more precise numerical basis, but it's a little bit different. So this is described in the same report, in the lines below the graph.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2938	If we don't look at the employee's working conditions – which can get a lot worse, and they can even lose the job on postponement – if everything gets as much better, as it is said, with privatisation and tendering delays, if we look at technical operations and organisation, I have to ask the Council of State: What was wrong with Sweden and the United Kingdom? There has not been any direct good experience, to put it mildly. I think we might agree on that, and then I would like to ask: what is the Council of State for Solvik-Olsen supposed to do that Sweden has not been able to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2944	We should have had a longer conversation about this. I've been to Sweden, England, Switzerland and Germany to discuss the railways. There are four very different systems, just like Norway's system will be different from all four when we're done with ours. What we've learned is that you have to make sure that someone has a strategic, overall responsibility. That's why we have a railway directorate. One must ensure that one has ownership and control of the infrastructure. That's why we have Bane NOR. One must ensure that in a rigid system such as the railway one must have control over who is on the railway at what time, and make sure that we know what offers we want. That's why we buy services, unlike in England, for example. The reason why English train tickets are so much more expensive than in other countries is that they are not subsidized. It is up to the operators themselves to set prices and provide services. That's not enough for us. That's why we're saying we're going to buy these services and define what we want. In the tender for the South African package, quality 60 pst., price 40 pst. Quality is the main element in tenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2953	The Minister of Transport's railway lottery continues. And here neither the fruit basket nor the bacon is the main gain, here are billions of contracts for private companies – mostly non-residents, the government has said. Those who lose, lose pay, work and pension entitlements. This lottery costs a tremendous amount of money. We know it costs hundreds of millions of dollars. We have now been confirmed by the Minister of Transport that we are talking about billions – billions – in order to create an administrative system, without saving a single penny! The Minister of Transport now said it costs about 1.3 billion. kr – in total, he added. So my question is, are the total costs of the railway reform now known? Will there not now be additional costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2960	And once we figure this out, it's about 1.3 billion. NOK for all that has happened. This is not to create an administrative system for tenders, for which I have received a written question from the Central Party. This is a redeployment of the whole railway system to bring together responsibilities that have been shared before, to ensure that the NSB ticketing system applies to the entire collective sector, to ensure that a pool of property that has previously been scattered among many actors, in one unit, and to ensure that many of the units that have previously been part of a conglomerate can now become much more professionalised and provide services much wider. This is about so much more than the Workers' Party has brought. NSB has been out there and said that they're counting on them to save $1 billion. kr in the year of its administration as a result of the changes taking place. That means that the NSB believes that in two years we have more than saved the total cost of improving the railway. I think that's a good investment. I think it's a little weird when the opposition is now going around talking about this as a lottery. We are talking about good services to be provided to the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2971	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2978	When it comes to privatising public enterprises, this government clearly knows few or no borders. Obviously, it doesn't matter much what resources you spend on the community's money to make it happen. Now it has been found that it has been used well over 1 billion. kr – 1,3 br. kr – to privatise the railways in Norway. It goes over the stick and the stone, but it doesn't matter to the Minister of Transport a dying thing, as long as he gets what he wants: full privatisation of the railway. As long as he and the government get privatized, the community's money means nothing. No prize is too high for State Council Solvik-Olsen from the Advance Party when he and his party can get through a privatisation. The willingness to spend billions of taxpayers' money on the table to help private players make millions on the same taxpayers' bill afterwards is insane. Governments have set up a number of companies with lots of directors in their privatisation assets. Even a new directorate had to set up the Council of State in order to get his heartchild: privatisation of the railway. Then it was suddenly no longer important to bring down the number of bureaucrats, as the government party in opposition thought was important. Now it's important to get privatised – costing what it's going to cost. The final bill – in addition to the hundreds of millions of tax dollars it has cost so far – will be paid to employees. Wage, pension and employment conditions are generally lower and ultimately have to be paid for the profits of private enterprises in such privatisation. But it doesn't bother the Progress Party or the State Council of Solvik-Olsen the least. The principle of privatisation – costing what it costs – is more important for the Progress Party, the Right and the Council of State than anything else. The council speaks like a typhoon director who promises winnings that ordinary people will never see. That's how the country is currently governed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2991	The President would like to stress that there should be no mention of state councils or others as ‘tivoli directors’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e2996	Recently, there have been a number of press releases on the use of money in the so-called railway reform. We've warned against this for a long time, but the government's two hands. The Minister of Transport said that the reform would cost a few hundred million dollars. Today we see that it has changed. The last notice said that it has now come up to 1.3 billion. kr in administrative expenses. These are funds that have gone into the creation of new companies, units and enterprises, with a number of new directors and board members, while railway workers now appear to have lower pension and working conditions. This is done at the same time as extended railway development projects are postponed for several years. We have a government that is constantly adjusting its level of ambition for rail development. One example of this is the Trønder and Meråker Railway in my home state, which was once promised to be delivered, and which was the main inter-political and unanimous priority project of the Trøndelag, where the Swedes now feel very ‘disappointed’ after making large investments in order to obtain a cross-border offer for freight and passenger transport. The railway needs new trainsets, crossing tracks, double tracks and electrification. Competing on the pay and working conditions of employees when they say they are against social dumping becomes strange. For what else are you going to compete when the track, train, booking system and signalling system are part of the delivery that you are being allocated to, and that in four different companies? So Norway has to deal with the railways the other country regrets – a privatisation ideology at the expense of taxpayers’ money and employees’ pay and working conditions. I'm from Ørland. There's a fighter base. The defense's cleaning service was offered to save money. It's gotten more expensive and worse because the interns need security guards that the Defense leases in to follow the interns. Those who worked there got a business transfer, but lost millions in pensions. Those who were not hired lost their job. This takes a lot of distance from the Working Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3007	Over many years, we have ensured that important national infrastructure, resources and common resources are owned and operated by the community – for the many and not for the few. This is something today's dark blue regime has been ideologically suspended in building down. Erna Solberg has put Norway on sale. Ketil Solvik-Olsen has obviously put the railway in a lottery. The Eastern folds are now to be launched as test rabbits for the privatisation of the railway, a consequence of the government's market-liberalist rail reform. So today, with the Christian People's Party's blessing, the government parties are giving Bane NOR a blank mandate to adopt the test rabbit privatisation of operations and maintenance on the Eastfold Railway. It's going to go beyond the east fold train services. We know that privatisation leads to fragmentation and powdering of responsibility. Railway maintenance is already complex, and even more actors will only make it worse, more complex and more unwieldy. The experience of Sweden is that privatisation of operations and maintenance led to increased indirect costs in the form of administration and to several stops in traffic due to errors after privatisation. The outsourcing of operations and maintenance will split up the trade environments in Bane NOR, and Bane NOR will lose its ordering competence when all those who are actually able to train maintenance, outsources to private operators. But the right side is so ideologically determined that all privatisation is good that they smoothly overlook all these objections and experiences and allow the Eastern folds to become test rabbits for their ideological experiment. SV's position is clear: we say no to more train chaos and privatisation. We say yes to the predictable and efficient operation of the Eastfold Railway in the direction of the community. But the government parties let their ideological skyscrapers get in the way again. In Swedish, we will remind them of this – even if they are not here in the Chamber today, they obviously do not care enough – when they are sitting on a delayed train from Eastfold and meeting themselves on the train door.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3024	The proposal for debate here today, on business transfer, is about the safety and working conditions of over 500 workers – 500 working on cleaning and maintenance of Norwegian trains. It's about a lot of jobs. This can be compared to a relatively large corner stone enterprise in a Norwegian community – 500 people. SV has been a clear opponent of the whole railway reform – it is known – and critical of the lack of action by this government on behalf of Norwegian railway. Then it may be wrong to say that they lack action, because they show action in relation to privatisations and tendering delays. However, they have shown a lack of action in terms of IC deployment, which is being postponed, when the railway is not given priority over major motorway projects, for example. The proposal we are discussing today should have been possible to adopt regardless of what you think about the government and the railway reform. Minister of Transport Solvik-Olsen has repeatedly promised that this reform will not affect the pay and pension conditions of employees. On March 6, 2015, Solvik-Olsen said: ‘It is important for me to stress that this is not a reform in which we will save money by allowing companies to compete on the lowest possible salary and pensions.’ In May 2015, the government repeated the same message and specified that employees would be transferred. ‘The Railways Act provides for the rules of the Working Environment Act to apply to competitions for contracts for the carriage of passengers by train if the activities are carried out on a competitive basis by the same means of transport as before.’ The minister then forgot to say that this was not to apply to those who keep the trains, and those who maintain the trains, i.e. the preparation staff. Our proposal here in the Chamber today is simply about securing the employees with the rights promised by the government. The fact that the government is opposed to this proposal is disappointing. That the Christian People's Party has signaled that they will do the same is surprising and extra disappointing. I know the Christian People's Party as a party engaged in the rights of ordinary people, who want to ensure good and safe jobs, and who are concerned that we should have a community to care for everyone. And I know the Christian People's Party as a party that puts man in the center. To vote against this proposal is to put the market – not man – at the centre. The only ones who can benefit from this are those who win the tenders, who can squander the costs by using poorer working conditions and kick those who have been in these jobs for 10, 20 or 30 years. Those who lose it are the employees directly, their family and finally we who use the services. The air ambulance case has shown how wrong it can be when entering a tendering process that does not take care of employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3047	I guess you don't have sky posters here in this room, but you have a totally different view of reality. Of course, there is something difficult to bridge over. It would be thought that the railway had worked well for all the years until 2013, but we have seen that the maintenance run has increased by 1 billion. kr per year, i.e. Almost as much as it costs to implement the reform as a one-off cost. We have seen that the offer on the railway has increased, not primarily because the railway has done so much more correctly, but because we have cooperated with the other public transport. The passengers who previously took a bus to Oslo are now driving trains to Oslo. Perhaps the most important thing is to coordinate public transport in Oslo and Akershus through competitive tendering and tendering. For 30 years, Oslo and Akershus worked on a joint project to get public transport across the border. We had established Stor-Oslo local traffic. It didn't work out, Oslo wasn't satisfied, they pulled out after a year's operation. What was the key? Akershus was unable to buy the buses and trams in Oslo. It was only when one discovered that by creating an administrative company one could coordinate the collective packages in Oslo and Akershus. We could buy bus routes on offer and make sure that we now set up 35 new electric buses in these years. We have experiments on hydrogen buses. It would not have happened if Akershu County had owned the buses – I know so much about Akershu County. There has been a way of organising it that has provided the county councils with security of what they received for the money, and the companies and suppliers have taken the opportunity to establish the new measures and new buses. We have two monopolies in Oslo and Akershus. One is the NSB, which is a state-owned monopoly, but they compete on the bus. Netbuses compete with the other bus companies – in the same line. We have the Sporwegen, which is a municipal monopoly. They're driving trains and subways. But in Bergen – it's okay to drive a private city railway. The Bergens are no more dissatisfied with their private city course than Oslo is with his trike. In addition, I refuse to believe that all competence in maintenance is in the public domain. We actually have private suppliers of maintenance. They must permit theirs when the state has taken everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3058	For a resination and black paint of the opposition! Should we talk about lottery – they obviously ran with a loser lottery in their government period, and that at the expense of taxpayers and travellers. There is a long way to go about rail reform, and as I see the debate here today, it is only ideology. The progress party will have the most left for the money, and we must not forget that it has been the bet of the times. Looking at what has been done in previous government periods, there is a significant increase now. There has never been such a stake on the railway before. Society is changing, and then we politicians too must be tough and dry to make changes and implement reforms. Are we always going to sit like the opposition and think that everything was so much better before, we can't make changes? Then only the delays and problems that had been identified will continue. I think we have to think about some questions, and the first is, what do we want? Well, I guess we want to get the most back on taxpayers' money with the investments we make. So we also have to think, who is the railway for? Why do we have a railroad? Well, I guess that's because we're going to make sure that travellers are transported from A to B in the best and most favorable way, without any delay. Concerns have been expressed for employees and employees are important. We have a very good work environment law that takes care of employees. We can't forget it. At least we can't forget who we have the railroad for. That's the travelers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3072	It's been an interesting debate. It has made clear to those degrees why the reform did not take place in this sector during the previous government. There has been opposition to everything that tastes of change, because – horror and horror – one had to spend money to change something. I believe this is investing in organisation, investing in leadership and investing in employees. It's about making sure we produce more services and more values for the same money. Although we are now making visible that we are saving billions of expenses for the state on the road and rail as a result of the reform, the opposition is still the most concerned that the reform costs money in the beginning and therefore should never have been implemented. Even with a two-digit billion in profit for taxpayers, this is irrelevant to the opposition. I think that's quite eye-catching. I also think it is alarming when several of the representatives, especially from the Workers' Party, take the train customers for granted. So the only variable in the train world is the pay of the employees. Thank you for the fact that the Workers' Party is not running the railway. Thank you for not having the Workers' Party running the NSB. Then they had guaranteed to lose any competition. But we see that luckily the NSB has a better approach. For the NSB, to win train offers abroad, inter alia: through the Swedish Train Company. That shows that luckily there's a little bit more guts in the NSB than in the opposition. Let's think about the arguments the Workers' Party has used, that it's only pay you have to compete on, because you have to provide the same service. Firstly, one of the things you're going to compete for is to provide better services. It is therefore quality that counts more than the price in this tender. What do we have on the basis of comparison if we like. build a road? We were up and opened the construction of Løten-Elverum – a very road project. All the contractors could have thought, here's nothing to compete on, except for the employees' wages, because we're all going to end up building the same road for the Road Administration. But that's not what they competed for. I did not meet a single person who said that they had to pay to win the offer, that they had to get less hourly pay than the AF Gruppe or Wei Deck. What they pointed out was: we've got a better organisation of the project, we're able to make better use of our resources, we've got better professionals, we're looking after the employees, they're looking after us, we've got better machines, we've got better logistics. That's what they're winning. The end product is going to be the exact same thing. But in the red-green world, there's nothing to compete for except pay. Then it's time to take a trip out and talk to the entrepreneurs and not mention them almost as parasites, as we experience in this debate, but actually view them as important players who are involved in building this country, who are going to do it with pride – and make money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3091	Now it was probably the Minister of Transport who compared what is happening in the railway sector to buying lots, so that the debate on the lottery started, he gets to take responsibility for it. Nils Aage Igstad talked about how important it is for private companies to make money on the railways. Let me say that rail appropriations in Norway have increased dramatically over the last 12 to 14 years – a formidable increase in railway investment and investment on the railways. The very thing, most of the money allocated to development and infrastructure on the railways, goes to private companies. I think something like 80-90 pst. of the investment budget on the railway goes to private companies building our rail system, which are responsible for new railway projects – of course. What we are now talking about is the daily operation of the infrastructure – daily operation of rails, sleepers, signalling systems and overhead contact line. That's what the bourgeois majority now wants to get away from Bane NOR and go to private companies. I find it reprehensible that the Minister of Transport says something like that someone has mentioned private companies as parasites. Who did it? I think the Minister for Transport should explain that. Who called private companies parasites? I guess no one does. And of course, the orderly pay and work conditions in the companies that build up the roads we finance. It was supposed to be missing! But I assume that the Minister for Transport does not decide which machines to use. I assume that the companies have a certain freedom to organise their own work after they have won the bid from the state. What is now happening on the railway is that the ticket system is governed by the state – and that's good. The State governs the trains to be used by individual companies, and the State governs the majority of what is happening, except in terms of pay and working conditions for employees. Therefore, we fear that there will be a deterioration in the pay and working conditions of employees. Finally to the Christian People's Party and Hans Fredrik Gravevan. It is important that all employees are properly cared for, said Gruvan in his contribution. It doesn't just keep saying that. One must fill the policy with content. It doesn't just keep standing on a pulpit and saying that. I assume that Grøvan has talked to railway employees both on Sørlanden and elsewhere – there have been many press releases as well – and has heard about the daily experience of the railway reform so far and sees that what he is doing brings pressure on working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3102	Now, when I take the floor, it's because I'm almost shocked by how the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV look at someone who works in private companies. There are a lot of people in this country who work in a private company, and who go to work every day, but even they have to fight the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. I wonder what they're thinking, if they should hear the debate – if they're worth anything at all. I wonder what you're thinking. I have not experienced that neither the SV, the Workers' Party nor the Centre's party proposes that we now have our own state-owned company that will operate and maintain air transport, bus companies or taxis. I haven't heard, but it's obviously coming soon. You stand up here and ask if there are no limits to what this government can put off and privatize. And then it's irresponsible to use 1.3 billion now. kr on a reform – when you can save 1 billion every year. kr on the NSB alone. We're actually busy with the taxpayers and the residents of the country and the customers who're going to drive the trains. It was said that the blue-blue government has sky posters. The biggest sky posters must have been the previous government with the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party that had. They were so insidious that it was quite possible to use taxpayers' money while the maturity on the railway increased by 1 billion. kr every two years. It's probably the biggest skyscrapers this country's ever seen. It's casualty, it's. You might want to be busy with the customers and those who are going to pay for this. I know many people who work in private companies and operate and maintain infrastructure. It's fine. I experience it every day. I think it's sad that you talk so deeply about the workers who go to work and do a real job so that you, me and others will feel good and get us safely back and forth in society. If this is the only opposition has to come along, I wonder what would happen if they were to come back and rule this society again. I would like an answer to the following, because it was something that was called recommuneration in, among other things. Trondheim municipality a few years ago: should you now have a resurgence of all companies and all tasks? Is this what this is about? Isn't it a matter of facilitating that we have an infrastructure that actually works, a healthy competition and actually compete on quality? I remember that 60 pst. the quality of the tender and the rest is about the price. That's the quality that's at the bottom. That's the whole foundation. That is what we are discussing. We are not talking about someone having to pay poorly, or being underpaid, or about treating someone badly – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3115	The proposals submitted today by SV were clearly a rematch on what was previously adopted by this magnification. In addition, Bane NOR has found out that they will try to see if there is actually a saving potential to tender part of the operation of the Eastfold Railway. So you go very carefully by taking the different districts one at a time, and I'm sure it'll be stopped if you don't succeed. You compare it a little bit with England, Sweden and other countries. Yes, they have made some mistakes, but they have also learned. That's why we've organized it that way. As Sverre Myrli said, it's the state that has to own the train sets. It's a common ticketing system that the state owns. That is where the respective countries failed. As far as the Working Environment Act is concerned, there is little respect for it being followed when you say that private employees do not receive equal pay or the same rights. Then I think you have a poor picture of the trustee apparatus, the LO and the various employee organisations in Norway. They're good at making sure you get the rights that Norwegian law requires. I also see that there are more as the denominator in the debate that there are no investments or new things being done. Kirsti Leirtrø mentioned the Trønderbanen. Tomorrow we will adopt the funding of 25 new Flirt trains to be purchased for traffic on the Trunder Railway and the Røros Railway. There are bimodal trains, so they can also be driven there since they are not yet electrified. That's why there's going to be a bit of a strange debate where we're going to take the big lines again -- that we don't believe that the railway can actually carry out what you've done in almost every other transport sector. Ketil Solvik Olsen mentioned bus launching in Trøndelag. It's been a huge success. The environmental package has been a huge success. It's open to tender, all of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3128	On my Facebook feed a few days ago, I got up an ad from Bane NOR. It was a very nice video, which told us that they're now rigging for the railroad bet. This is why the more people who can participate and plan, project and implement projects are recruiting. I think more people should watch that movie, because when you hear this debate, you should think that now the railroad is being built down, now people are going to be told up, things are going to be stopped. If we're going to be able to discuss how to improve the railways together, we should be able to have a fairly common reality. We may disagree on the instruments, it is the policy being, but it is a wrong picture the opposition is trying to give when you give the impression that things are going worse – when the appropriations have increased by more than 50 pst, when there are multiple train departures, more drivers, double maintenance. I think it says a little bit about knowing that you have a bad case when you just have to blush about reality instead of arguing about reality. Path NOR knows the reality. They're recruiting more, because they know it's going to happen more. It's said here is growing bureaucracy. I just remind you that the NSB itself went out and said they're going to have fewer middle managers – about 300 fewer in the administration, because they have to have more of them in the production. That's where customers meet them, that's where they have to deliver better quality. We see the same thing in the State Road Administration and New Roads. Overall, there is now a reduction in the number of employees in what is called road administration and project management, but there is an increase in the number of people working in the entrepreneurship industry who build and maintain our roads. So it's going in the right direction, not in the direction that the Workers' Party believes. Yes, I said "parasites". I said that the opposition argues as if private business and entrepreneurs are parasites that just need to suck money from taxpayers. I still think that is a correct picture, even though the representative Myrli does not like it, to treat private contractors as if they do not want to treat their employees properly, and to give the impression that other train companies do not care about how the employees are doing is simply wrong. Where quality is the main factor in the tender papers, no one can treat the employees badly. When it's actually a separate point and part of the contract assessment how to recruit and develop the employees, it says a little about the Workers' Party arguing against a different reform than the one we're implementing. Then it is difficult, unfortunately, to get a substantive debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3139	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3144	For those who have spoken here from the Progress Party: I am not allergic to private operations. I've had my own business for 40 years, I just have to remember it. And I see that New Roads have given us a lot. I also see that there is a lot to pick up from private operations, but we could have done this within the state road system, and we could have also taken action in Norway's state tracks and Bane NOR earlier. But now leave it. It's so popular with such case studies. Let's imagine that something doesn't really work on the railway, for example. on the Eastfold Railway, e.g. a switch that does not function completely. What is the procedure? Who finds the fault, who orders to correct the fault, who performs the repair, who controls the repair, and who coordinates? Maybe someone's answering that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3151	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3156	It can't be undisputed when it's claimed that we're talking down the employees of private companies. The Stordalen even said we were fighting employees in private companies. What kind of language usage is this? That's not what this is about! We're talking about employees in Bane NOR, who are doing the jobs today. Path NOR performs this under its own control, and this is to be disposed of to private companies. Those who work there today have their rights, they have their pension rights. They start in a private company, have the other rights and lose the rights they have today. Unfortunately, we have very poor experience with this government regarding the exclusion of public services. We can talk about the clean-up in Defense, about the ICT removal in Health South-East and other things in recent years that make the red lights blink.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3161	What made me take the floor was that it was about Trondheim, where our county rapporteur has privatised bus services, and that it is a success. Yeah, it's a success, and that's because you put money in it. The previous government started with the urban growth and environmental package. One has got the bus out because you've arranged the field. But the most important thing is that employees' pay and working conditions have been respected, both in the case of business transfers and in the case that the county council has taken responsibility for the employees, because they are the ones that make up the good difference. The Council of State says he can prove that one of these arrangements has reduced the cost. I think it is quite incredible that he will receive when the tenders have not yet been concluded. He doesn't know what it costs, and it's quite clear when the Council of State in one moment says it's going to cost a few hundred million dollars administratively, and now we're up to 1.3 billion. kr. Then I would say that this is predicting in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3169	I was really just asking for a brief comment, because there was one thing that could not be contradicted. The representative of Stordalen is trying hard to draw a false image of the Centre Party. He paints black, and he paints wide. The centre party is not a hostile party to industry – that is not true. In this debate, the Central Party has not said a single negative word about the serious private business. But this debate has put the list of truth content quite low, and it was the Minister of Transport who did it when he started talking about lottery – a rate of 10 kroner, guaranteed a win of 20 kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3176	I have been told by the representative Myrli before when I have taken the floor after he no longer has speaking time. But now I was challenged by other representatives, and I hope it's okay that I speak anyway. It is possible that I took too little into account when I spoke about the gain versus investment. It's not like we're investing $10 and winning $20. So far in our reforms we have invested about. 20 kroner and won 340 kroner. I think that's actually an even better number. And the fact that the opposition still argues against the $20 that has been expected to win 340 kroner, I think it shows who's wasting the money here. It has been expensive to have eight years with a red-green government that has refused to initiate processes because it could cost money to start them, when we see what gains have been made latent in the systems – not by paying employees worse, but simply by making the processes go better, by making sure that we build and maintain longer distances and get more money back, and that when the equipment is in place, we get to use it more effectively. I also understand why such contracts are not put into service when SV is unable to see how it is possible to let an entrepreneur take responsibility for the operation and maintenance of a section. But we're going to make it work on our road network. There are large contracts on both the roads of the country and the roads of the counties, where contractors take responsibility for different sections and are then responsible for much different. I think almost one must have a background from a bright red side to believe that every order should be executed in isolation, instead of giving a contractor a total task and letting them take responsibility for how they do it – but where we as a contracting entity ensure that they deliver in line with the requirements that are being imposed. It's probably just the detailed management of which the representative, Mrs. Növra and others have given the impression, from Eastern European countries, we don't intend to have here, but on the contrary, give freedom and authority. It's also a little strange to hear how some people move France out as a leading country on the railways. When we've seen news in the last few months about how strike and train chaos have shaped France, it should probably mean that the opposition should also upgrade its arguments. I would recommend traveling and visiting all these railway countries and seeing that there are both good and bad aspects of them all. And that's exactly what we've done. By travelling and reaping experiences, we have made sure that we do not copy what has not worked, but we have been inspired by what has worked. There are things that have worked in Switzerland, in Germany and in France, and there are things that have worked in England and in Sweden. My goal is to make Norway Europe – and most of the world – the best railway country. You don't do that by standing still and looking in the mirror, you do that by making improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3189	We hear we're saving billions. No, we're using billions. We hear it's about organization. No, it's about privatisation. If something looks like a sheep, it sounds like a sheep and maybe even smells like a sheep, yeah, it's probably a sheep. But that's not what this is. This isn't sheep. It's a principle-privatisation this is all about. I hear Gunne’s reference to the Working Environment Act – a representative from the Left of All – and believe that it is the Working Environment Act that will ensure that people are properly paid. Then I think Gunnes from the Left should read the Working Environment Act. There's nothing about salary levels there. It is the tariff agreements in Norway that govern. The Working Environment Act itself does not say anything about how much each employee should have paid in the individual profession. It's with the grace of fright that a left-wing representative has been the party that has been at the forefront of weakening the Working Environment Act, standing here trying to refer to a law that they are really largely opposed to. The councils are also annoyed that we are pecking at him when it comes to privatisation. But that's the right thing to do, because that's what it's all about. I just want to remind you that his colleague, Hofstad Helleland, said that now one should make sure to squeeze the tube so hard that the contents were not recovered. That is what the Solvik-Olsen Council and this government are doing when they present privatisation proposals on the basis of privatisation proposals. That is currently how this country is governed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3200	I had to take the floor after listening to this long debate, because no one has actually shown the Gjøvik track – the route in Norway that is exposed to competition. The Labour Party claimed that there would be a disaster, that there would be a lot of accidents, that there would be a very bad offer, wages would be cut, and employees would not want to work there. The people I meet on the Gjøvik track ask me, do you want an ice cream today? Would you like some cold drinking water today? They rig a sausage truck then and water. It has to do with service. They're proud to work there. Not least, the outsourcing of Gjøvikbanen, which otherwise won through a private company, created a regularity. We've developed the stations. It is possible to park and walk on the train. We have had a formidable traffic growth, and after that there was actually a great need for new trains. They have now come into place. Crossrails are being developed. We're getting better power supply in place. At the end of the 1990s the situation was that there was a bus for trains – and then we can talk about rudeness, the Workers' Party. That offer was strangled in the heel, tormented in the heel, and there were more and more departures by bus for trains from Gjøvik and Oslo on Gjøvikbanen. It was no longer a course anyone would use, and the bus was not so very attractive either. We have to assume that it is possible to organise the operation of the railway in other ways. Many other countries have succeeded. Gjøvikbanen AS has shown that it is possible to succeed in Norway as well. I also hear that New Weger has been used as an example in the debate. It is interesting to note that more and more representatives – some central representatives, at least from the Centre Party and also the Workers' Party – now want road sections into New Roads. The representative Ivar Odnes from the Center Party will have the distance from Mjøsbrua to Raufoss into New Roads, and that must be the best example of what we have created here. Talking it down then becomes a little bit funny. One can't just want to pick cherries to get the best. Here we have to have long-termism and use the resources smart. There is a great need for that. We have wasted a lot of money on the railways in Norway – most of which we have prioritised it too low, it is also a challenge – but by having different actors, we get to the offer that people long for on the railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3211	This was a long debate. I couldn't believe it, because the word 'privatisation' is repeated infinitely many times in this debate. What we're really talking about is using tendering, offering as a tool to get the best possible price for taxpayers, to make sure that we use public money in the best possible way, and to make sure that we get the best possible qualitative offer for those who are going to use the offer. There is really no other or more complicated tender notice. Then we're talking about privatisation. When I take the bus, I drive with a private bus company, but which is ordered by a public operator, like the county municipality. Are we talking about a privatized service? No, no, no. When I take ferries in my own county – I do that quite often – I travel with a private ferry company based on a public service. Are we talking about a privatized offer? No, no, no. To take another example, mentioned earlier today, Citybanen in Bergen: If you take the Citybanen in Bergen, you travel with a privately run company. Are we talking about a privatized offer? No, no, no. This is because, in all these cases, tendering has been used to provide the best possible offer to those who are going to travel, those who are going to use these services. In this context, the word ‘privatisation’ is used as a template. We need to respect the fact that the actors that deliver here are private, good companies that offer a good offer based on a public service with clear specifications and requirements for what to deliver. Competitive outsourcing is more common than the exemption in the transport sector. In terms of both maintenance, our road network, investments in our road network and public transport – bus, ferries, the Urban Railway in Bergen, as I mentioned as an example in the future – competitive outsourcing is actually more general than the exception. Why shouldn't we use the same tool on the railway? Why should we not use the toolbox that is there to create the best possible offer for those who are going to use this service? Then, of course, it's going to happen under neat, good conditions. However, it must be possible to accept that, for many decades, competitive outsourcing has been used as an effective, good tool to create the best possible offer for those to travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3220	In the case of business transfers, when these traffic packages are lighted up, many of the employees are entitled to join the new company taking over. In this case, it says about these who are in a subsidiary, and it is clear from the Working Environment Act that an employee can be transferred if a winning company chooses a device and location on the activity corresponding to today's activity. If they take over all of that business, there should be business transfer. My observation regarding the trust apparatus in our employee organisations is that they are capable of negotiating pay and employment relationships for their employees. We don't have to talk them down and have expectations that they can't do a good job, even though there might be new companies doing the same job that they're doing today, but maybe in an even better way, and that can offer travelers an even better setup. We talk a lot about the Urban Railway in Bergen – I see that the former rapporteur in Os is also sitting here – and we can boast about it very much. But the tram in Trondheim was closed by the municipality of Trondheim. It was gone for two years, and then it was private that took an initiative and started again – it was in the 1980s. It goes on that day and carries 1 million passengers. It may not go very well, but it's a very good offer for those who live along this line. So here it's not that it's condemned north and down even if private take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3229	It was obviously hard for the chest that I claimed – and I still believe that after the debate – that the opposition, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, especially, have gone to battle against all workers working in private companies and groups. Throughout the debate you can hear how bad privatization would be. It was said here from the pulpit – it was probably from SV, among others. – the importance of the operation and maintenance of the railway, because it was the Community’s resources. And it has been said, at the latest, that in terms of pay, you would hardly get paid, it may seem like. Pay was used – that's all Lauvås has used, that's what's important, and that's what you compete for. But perhaps Lauvås has not read the matter and went into the matter to see what is underlying in terms of quality, that it is 60 pst. quality that applies and the remainder is paid. But it's, as I say, very special when you say that it's kind of a principal privatization. That's all that matters. That was said by the Labour Party representative. No, it's not a principle. We think it's a good principle to test out where it's right and reasonable, and it's actually still state owned. You don't have to privatize and give away anything, it's state owned, it's still full control. And there are an incredible number of people who work in private companies every day, who operate and maintain. I think it's going perfectly well in the winter – there are many private people sitting and driving, whether they're salting, bedding or pruning. I think it's going perfectly well in the air, with competition, a fly safe, that's one of the safest things you can do. It's fine if I go on a bus – it's competitive, it's probably privatized, but it's also state control of it, and it's private driving. I'm fine every time I take a taxi. It's private that owns and runs, but it's public that puts it out, so you make sure it's an offer. There is no doubt that this debate has been special – perhaps the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV must go on their own and listen to what they have said. They have gone to fight against all the companies and employees of the country who work in the private sector. It must be a sad day for those who work there, to experience that they are not worth anything. It might seem like it's an A-layer and a B-layer. If you work in public, yes, everything is fine. Well, it didn't seem like that – at least until we got into government – since the maturity increased all the time. People didn't meet up, wouldn't drive trains. There was a shortage of staff every week, precisely because it was dissatisfaction, because you were not taken seriously, it was not invested and maintained well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3240	The representative, Kirsti Leirtrø, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3245	This debate should really be more marked by the fact that we are busy getting the most traffic back for the money, and that we are busy with the passengers. The representative referred to the offer on the ferry and said that it is a great thing. Our fleet is probably 40 years old on average. When we publish contracts of eight and ten years, it's written off, so it might have been interesting to have a discussion about what we get the most ferry drive again for by the money. Normally, for the counties, there is at least a transfer of activity to the employees. Many of the bidding rounds we have today are decided in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3252	For a strange debate this has been. We've heard a state council that's really talked more about road than about rail. But you can see that, because we have a Minister of Transport who is very happy to build a highway. We have civil representatives who talk more about the Urban Railway in Bergen and the taxi industry than talking about the railway, and then we have some bourgeois representatives who are extremely concerned about drawing a picture of the left side that is not at all correct – that we are going to talk down the employees in private business. That's really not what's going on from this pulpit, and I think they know it for themselves. But I get it. I understand why the bourgeois government wants to talk about everything other than that, namely the privatisation of the railway. It is because it is known that the population is opposed to the question of rail privatisation – people are quite well aware that this is a nationally important infrastructure that is slightly different from, for example, one. The pretty town track in Bergen. We have therefore tried to give some rather concrete challenges based on what we know about rail privatisation. We have tried to say that privatisation leads to fragmentation and pulverisation – an increasing number of companies and an increasing number of directors. We have tried to record that in Sweden the privatisation of operations and maintenance resulted in several stops in railway traffic and increased administrative costs. We've been trying to say that privatization of the railway leads to fragmentation of the trade unions, and we've been trying to say that we're outsourced the ordering skills from Bane NOR. But we just get to record that this government and the bourgeois parties are more concerned about talking about the taxi and the city track and trying to paint a picture of the left side like someone who hates private business. In this way they can continue this ideologically determined sale of Norwegian important infrastructure – with Eastfold and our population as test rabbits.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3265	The representative of the Supreme Court characterises this as a strange debate, but I must remind you that it is SV's proposal or initiative we are now discussing. It is SV who has taken the initiative and is trying to re-examine what is decided in this room on rail reform, and that Bane NOR is allowed to investigate whether it can be done in an even more efficient and better way by deploying part of the operation. It is then a bit strange to hear that we have now argued for and defended this railway reform and these tendering procedures – that we are defending it – and that it is characterised as a strange debate. I think we have enough proof that we're most likely to succeed in this. The flight train and the Gjøvik track have been mentioned. I don't think it's much harder to run rail than many other modes of transport. Avinor was privatised into an AS with many of these services, but with a state-owned company operating. That's the same thing we're trying out in the railway sector right now. It has also succeeded. The red-greens were strong against the time they introduced it. It's a success today. I agree that we should proceed a little slowly. That's what the government says by taking one and one section of the track and one and one area, to see if you actually get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3275	Thank you for an interesting debate. I don't think it's been very informative, because many of the arguments have not been about the reform that the government is actually implementing, but about parody representations of it. But I still mean what we're doing is right, because we couldn't sit and look at a railway that continued to decay. There was a railway where the professionals themselves, in 2011, reported that we were at risk of collapse, and where the professionals themselves said that the solution to this was a better organisation of the sector to precisely bring together responsibilities in a better way, in order to provide better competition for providing good services. It's actually for the offer to the travelers and to the business we have the railway. There is a lot to point to Sweden and England, as if this is a copy of the railway organisation in Sweden and England. It's not. When SV and other parties try to give it the impression, it's just because obviously one doesn't want to get involved in the reform, but also because they know that discussing the content of the reform isn't as black as talking about myths from other countries. Nevertheless, let me refer to a report from the Centre for Transport Studies in Stockholm, which in 2014 could show that maintenance costs in Sweden have been reduced by 11 pst. The quality has not decreased, but increased, and the punctuality has been maintained. A report by the Swedish Transport Agency in 2015 shows that, between 1995 and 2013, the number of accidents has been reduced, punctuality has been stable, while traffic has increased by 50 pst. – strike the opposite of the SV trying to claim. Now I've referred to two studies with a source. I am pleased to hear the SV come with the same sources. I've commented on England before. There was a lot that didn't work in England the first few years after the railway reform they had, but there was certainly a lot that didn't work before the reform too. That's exactly why they started it. But what they did wrong was that they did not maintain responsibility for the infrastructure in one hand, but took it and split it up. We're not going to make that mistake. That's why we have all this under the hands of the state. What we learned from Switzerland was just having a strategic unit, and it's under the hands of the state. I think it's a little strange that no one from the opposition criticises, but rather defends and says it's completely okay with offers as long as we're talking about planes, ferry and bus. It was quite okay to compete on freight trains when the red-green ones crashed, and it was quite good to introduce private operators on the owner's side of Traffic Service, as the Stoltenberg government did. But just to drive a route on the railway – no, there are suddenly some completely different things. Then they show that it is a side of politics that has an ideological approach to this, and that is the very left side. We are implementing it as one in the rest of the country seems to be a good, pragmatic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3288	So there are two motions for a resolution that we are now discussing. It is a proposal to stop the privatisation of operations and maintenance on the Eastfold Railway, and it is a proposal to ensure the transfer of operations for those added to the railway if new operators win the offer in some of the announced or scheduled routes here in Norway. That's the two things we're discussing. Then it is a little strange that the local representative thinks it is strange that the word 'privatisation' is mentioned in the debate, when that is exactly what it is about. Road development on Løten, Gjøvikbana and New Vegar have our names – E6, the urban railway in Bergen, Trondheim and the railway and city buses as well. There is a lot to put into such a debate. The centre party's entrance to this is that we are concerned about the working conditions of those adding them and ensuring their rights if the job is put out for competition and other actors come in. That's exactly how it's done in the bus offer, as the representative Igstad pointed out. It's a business transfer that's largely done there. The lot of the centre is occupied by the navigable conditions of the major railway infrastructure. So we don't want to be on the experimental scheme that Bane NOR wants. We believe that it is too insecure for such an important rail infrastructure measure. When the representative Ketil Kjenseth pulled in New Vegar AS, it gets a little weird. Yes, I have expressed a positive opinion that we can expand the E6 project that goes into Oppland with Rv. 4, and I'm going to get closer to that when we're going to discuss some other things about transportation here in the hall. In the case of the supply to travellers and businesses to transport their goods, all concerned are concerned that it should be safe and sound. Therefore, it is also important that precisely those who provide for travellers should ensure good working conditions and safety in the important work they do in order to keep wheels and hams in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3299	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3316	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3325	Let me first start by thanking the committee for a good and tidy discussion of the proposition. I'm not going to go through all the issues mentioned in the proposition, but I'm going to comment on some of them, based on the majority's views. I expect the opposition to explain its proposals. The majority has previously decided that the scheduled service at Fernes Airport, Leirin, should be shut down and that airports should be operated as a clean charter airport by Avinor until local owners were ready to take over the airport, but no longer than 1 January 2019. It was also a prerequisite in the decision that local business should cover part of the costs in 2017 and 2018, without that happening. Since 2016, Avinor and the Ministry of Transport have had dialogue with local actors on local ownership and operation, but so far, a solution has not yet been found. And since no charter traffic is planned in the second half of 2018, there is no basis for continued operation. The majority therefore support the Ministry’s assessment of shutting down the aerodrome from 1 July 2018, i.e. half a year before the initial decision. This does not preclude further work on a local solution for the acquisition of ownership and operation of the aerodrome. On the contrary, it will be very welcome. However, it would not be appropriate to continue an operating organisation all the time it is not planned for activity at the aerodrome. There has also been a loose proposal from the Christian People's Party. Right will consider supporting this proposal under certain conditions, assuming that we have understood it correctly. This means that from 1 July 2018, the airport of Ferener, Leirin, is closed, as proposed in the proposal, that only necessary maintenance is carried out to maintain the current status at the aerodrome, that investments in the aerodrome are not to be carried out in addition to the necessary maintenance, and that any obligations to comply with the requirements of the Air Safety Authority must be met by any new owners. With these assumptions, this is the latest opportunity for new entrants to find a solution for takeover of operations and ownership to the aerodrome. Then to the project rv. 23 Dagslett - Linnes. It is a very long-term and important project, both locally and regionally. Therefore, it is very regrettable that there was a significant increase in the cost of the project, mainly due to more demanding ground conditions than previously foreseen. The Ministry of Transport recommends to look at the project in conjunction with the parselle rv. 23 Linenes to the intersection E18. It will provide a more comprehensive development with the possibility of a more cost-effective implementation. The majority agree to this assessment, but will clarify that it is immeasurably important to have good progress in the project, so that the entire route can be realised as quickly as possible. In this way, we will ask the Council of State to contribute to planning and implementation as quickly as possible. In the opposition... in the proposition, sorry – a small shade there – several adjustments have been made that the Committee is united behind. Among other things, the up-to-date cost framework for the E69 Skarvberg Tunnel is the adjustment of the New Roads portfolio, which extends the E6 Kolomoen-Ensby route to Øyer; it is the use of the Hurtigruten option to extend the agreement by one year; and it is the simplification of the scheme of the broadband subsidy, which will give the county municipalities more influence and predictability. In addition, the Ministry reports on the follow-up to three request decisions. Among other things, necessary decisions are taken to follow up the Storting decision that a zero-emission vehicle should not pay more than 50 pst. of conventional vehicle tariffs in the case of tolls, ferries and parking. This means that it can be opened for the payment of a zero-emission vehicle within these limits in toll stations if it has local access to it, and on national and county roads there will also be provision for a maximum of 50 pst. payment for a zero-emission vehicle. It is also announced a legislative proposal to the Stortinget regarding parking, which will come in June 2018. There are good support schemes for environmentally friendly boat transport through the public sector, as explained in the proposal. The majority are therefore of the opinion that the county councils responsible for the operation of the boat have to make their own assessments of how they can benefit from these arrangements in order to realise an emission-free boat transport. Our assessment is that the request decision has received a good follow-up through this proposition. In conclusion, I would like to point out that in the proposal for a decision promoted by an overall committee, unfortunately, there has been a typographical error. Where it says «E69 Skarvbergtunnelen», it shall of course be «E6 Skarvbergtunnelen», and I expect that to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3350	I want in my post to deal with two things. It's Feernes Airport Leirin and Rv. 23 in the Smoke and Hurum. We have previously discussed Ferennes Airport Leirin in the knowledge and the broad. I think it's a pity, as the government now adds, that the airport should be shut down. This case has a history. Firstly, the government parties and what were then two supporting parties in Stortinget decided to close down the regular services at Fenernes Airport Leirin. Then they started to downgrade the operations of the aerodrome itself. So we can say a lot about it, but unfortunately we see the result now. I have to say I am surprised and very disappointed at what has happened, because there was no lack of any good promises about how it was to bet on Leirin. Many of us warned and said that it is very difficult to imagine that municipalities or county municipalities or the business community in the region are responsible for the operation of an aerodrome. But no then, there was no problem, now it was to bet. The Right Olemic Thommessen was ready. The left Ketil Kjenseth, as I see is in place, was ready to bet on Leirin. What had to come from critical comments from the Workers' Party and the Center Party was, of course, black paint. It is either black paint or to open doors when the opposition in the Storting is outside. Anyway, that's regrettable, what's now happening. We cannot, from the Labour Party side, agree that Feernes Airport Leirin is to be closed down. Therefore, the Workers' Party and the Centre have proposed that the aerodrome should not be closed down. Then I have to say that I criticized the Christian People's Party a little in the previous case. In this matter I will praise the Christian People's Party, for I think the Christian People's Party has also made a good proposal. The Workers' Party and the Center Party's proposals are a little bit better, but the Christian People's Party's proposals are basically about a lot of the same thing, that one at least ensures that the airport is not being built down. So I'll give commendation to the Christian People's Party in this case. So I'll say a little bit about rv. 23 in the Smoke and Hurum. Yesterday I attended a large meeting on Rv. 23 in the Smoke. There was great impatience. There were people from Lahell, there were people from other places living in the big traffic oasis who are currently in charge of Rv. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox Everyone understands that when costs increase, there is a need to take a timeout. It is true that we see the whole stretch from Dagslett to E18 in the context, but the impatience that people in the area have and that was brought to the square at the meeting I attended yesterday, by the rapporteurs both in Hurum, Røken and Lier – and as far as I know, they are from the Right all three – we have to take it very seriously. At yesterday's meeting, representatives of the State Road Administration stated that with what is now in the Ministry's hands, it will take ten years for a new road from Dagslett to E18 to be completed. It is if the appropriations needed come and there are no constraints on the basis of the economic framework. Then at best it can be finished in ten years, and then I just want to say, it doesn't last. We can't spend ten years solving traffic problems in this area – beyond 20,000 vehicles every day just outside the doors of people. There must be solutions here, and I hope we could get together – and that is why the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party have put forward proposals – that we can make this easier and get a new path completed faster than ten years. Finally, I would like to address the proposals No. 1, 2 and 4 in the vote, and then I'll ask the President to make that proposal no. 1 is addressed to voting before proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. If proposal No 1 will not be adopted, we will vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3373	The representative Sverre Myrli has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3378	It is good to see that our competent committee leader can also make mistakes. It gives hope to us common mortals as well. It is correct as it says in the setting: the Skarvberg tunnel is located on the E69, not the E6 that the committee leader wanted to fix it. I thought I'd say some words about road and broadband. As a Finnish mark that has often passed through the Skarvberg tunnel, it is a happy day to finally get the last decisions taken before starting up. This is an important project. A good job was done in planning, and KS2 shows that costs do not increase significantly compared to previous calculations. Europe Route 69, of which the Skarvberg Tunnel is part, is the only road link to Honningsvåg and Magerøya, and is a road of great importance for business and future economic development. Today's tunnel is too low, and the supply routes at both ends are located in raspy areas, so this is a long-term project. When the new tunnel is completed in 2021, it will provide a safer, better and more efficient route for residents, tourists going to North Cape, fish going out to consumers, and not least for work to be done in connection with the oil activity created with Johan Castberg, so here the government thinks entirely. The significant effort to improve broadband coverage in the last five years must also be mentioned. I can mention that in 2013 we had in Finnmark a broadband coverage of just under 7 pst. In 2017 we were up in a coverage of 82 pst. We see that it's getting harder to seal the last holes in the coverage map. Then we have to change the scheme of the broadband development grant scheme: simplify the way funds are allocated, give the county municipalities more influence and predictability, and give priority to households with no broadband offer of at least 10 Mbit/s. It's good progress party policy, which will help to remove the digital class division that the red-greens created.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3389	In this case, I would like to comment on some of them. As a foreigner, I see the positive in that it is now being opened to ensure a holistic expansion of the E6 project that is in progress towards Mjøsbrua, and that it is now being arranged to support the development right up to Øyer. In the further planning of the project on the Uppland site, it should also be done on Rv. The 4th line Mjøsbrua – Gjøvik is considered to be a previous start, as this is a project that can also contribute positively to the E6 project Mjøsbrua – Lillehammer, which has a large mass undershoot. Rv. The 4th project has a mass overlap which can be used for the E6 project. For rv. 23 it is good that there is a comprehensive development of the Dagslett–Kreuz E18. The centre party believes that there are clear both road safety and environmental reasons, as well as the social cost of having such a poor appearance for passenger and goods transport – this because of high traffic – that the road has largely reduced the speed limit due to its partial passage through a residential area and that it generally has too poor standards for such a high traffic. In the case of broadband, there should be no doubt that we in the Centre Party are busy with the fastest possible connection to Norway on a high-speed broadband infrastructure system. For this reason, we also support the change in broadband access, which helps to simplify and ensure the most unbureaucratic administration of these funds. But the core of the scheme – the means of budgeting – is too low and must rise substantially over the years to ensure that everyone can participate on equal footing in the digital network as quickly as possible. When it comes to the orientation of Fenernes Airport Leirin: It happens, what we warn about. In the context of the changes made to the budget procedure at Stortinget in 2015, we warn that this would not provide a necessary foundation for building a resilient charter airport on Leirin, with such a short working time. It was an industry that was also very skeptical when the government of the late Secretary of State John-Ragnar Aarset stood at Leirin in November 2015 and said that it would really be a great lift for chartering at Leirin. The travel industry itself asked for a period of five to seven years to get more charters up and up, in order to increase translation and ignition, but thus received up to three years, with demands for phase-in cost coverage already from the second year. This was the industry very skeptical, but one believed that when this became more a business project, and not a commercial project, one – with such a positive signal from government and dumping – would get drag help to manage to build a clean charter airport on the Leirin on this basis. It's been working intensely from the industry, but it doesn't help much with beautiful words when the government doesn't follow up with resources. It has been developed and established a business cluster project that brings together different tourism actors from Valdres and Hallingdal, who have developed good package solutions for five activities, overnight stays, bus companies and local food producers in the area. They have laid a good foundation, and have also been in contact with the political leadership of the Ministry of Economic Affairs in order to get more help from the drug addicts. The great uncertainty that has been surrounding the continued operation of Leirin has led the charter series that has gone from London to Leirin in winter to Gardermoen from the coming winter. It's very regrettable that Valdres and Hallingdal can now lose the advantage they have of an airport, where visitors to the area can fly straight in and experience the area from the plane when they land in the mountainside of Leirin. The aerodrome itself is also important as an standby aerodrome for both the Defence and the Air Ambulance, and there are several that have benefited from the aerodrome. When it comes to the proposals that have been tabled, I will substantially support the proposal announced by the Christian People's Party. We see that there may be a good basis for the business company that is now establishing, that a company will be given a viable condition for continued operations at the aerodrome.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3404	Now I'm probably asking the State Council of Solvik-Olsen to squeeze the pen, because now he can write a record – because I'm going to talk about and defend a pretty big road project in Lier and the Smoke. Of course this applies to rv. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox It's going to be renamed E134, so it's going to be a European road we're talking about. This way goes through a densely built area of the Smoke and Lier, especially through the site of Lahell, in the present Busherud county. We have come into an incredible situation: it concerns the development of a bypass, a new road – the plans have existed for 20-30 years. We are talking about nearly 20 000 cars, of which a huge number of car trains, pass the residential route Lahell daily – we are talking about every day – on a curved road at 50 km/h, because there are also speed dumps there. The postponement of the construction of the first part of the parcel, Dagslett-Linnes, has been due to new calculations, showing around 900 million. kr in exceedances, again due to new technical requirements and new information on ground conditions, etc. The spade was stabbed in the ground, it was to be built, but then it was stopped. I will not address any deficiencies in the previous calculation basis here, but now it has to be taken into account. One has to grab hold. It is not possible to keep the local population close to being fooled in new years — not to say for decades, which may be what it is about. They've suffered locally enough. Luckily, the municipality of Lier, which is a very central municipality in this case, has agreed on one option, especially in the case of part 2 – the whole part 2 is in Lier. There is total cross-political agreement on one option, that part 1 and part 2, i.e. Until the E18, should be expanded one at a time, with a long tunnel, what we call the Viking alternative. The Ministry also uses an overall project for Part 1 and Part 2. The starting point here is whether other options for Part 2 now need to be re-examined in detail, or whether one can follow the urgent call from Lier Municipality to focus on their option, the Viking Option. The background for this is, of course, that the other options will largely involve building down cultivated land, several of which will be more expensive, and there will be a major problem for the local population. For me, it's not so important whether it's government or local regulation, the most important thing is to bring down planning time. It was informed at the same meeting that Myrli's representative referred to, yesterday, that we're talking about maybe five years of planning. Now the ladies have to paint again for five years. So this doesn't matter. We have to be able to get this planning time down. That is the background for SV's proposals, which we have with the Workers' Party. I want to stress the seriousness here. We are talking about traffic from the continent, from western Sweden, from eastfold, traffic through the Oslofjord tunnel and over Hurumhalvøya, via the bottleneck and residential area of Lahell, with the 50 km/h, and beyond – perhaps all the way to the West or northwards. So there's one point left: at least it shouldn't be on money, either for planning or for development, because I've noticed that here in the hall there's been quite a lot of money spent on road projects earlier that have a completely different traffic base, a much smaller traffic base than what we're talking about here. It shall be difficult to stand before a tribunal and defend. So I strongly recommend that one assess the SV and the Workers' Party's proposal, which at least underlines the importance of focusing on the unified solution that Lier Municipality is behind. It is now true that although SV generally struggles with major motorway projects – here we have no special choice, there must be four fields due to the tunnel regulations – sometimes it is possible to use the head.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3425	First I want to talk a little bit about broadband, and I also think, as many people have mentioned earlier here, that it is very important and right now to organise it so that the county councils get a greater responsibility to prioritize this work. The Committee was on its way to Nkom in Lillesand, who is primarily responsible for broadband, mobility and mobile connectivity in Norway. They've moved to Lillesand. I have to say that those who are afraid to move out jobs from Oslo should take a walk. The company is very competent – it was a pleasure to be there, considering both the competence and the working environment, as far as we got the impression. They were also very much because they organized this in a different way, so that it becomes a proper priority. The left will probably fight to get good money, so we get broadband coverage in most of the country. There's one thing that I think is a little joyous, about the Bergen–Kirkenes coast route – we know for a while – as it says a little about here. We remember the debate we had before Christmas, where we talked a lot about that it was too low ambitions in terms of environmental requirements. Fortunately, there are now two companies to serve this route, and then there will be some competition between them. I have very much faith that they – there should have been more for me – can challenge each other when it comes to using new technology. With regard to the debate we had last week on bidding rounds and outsourcing, we can see that a good deal has been done here. I think when the boats are built, there's actually going to be a lot better environmental benefit when these companies want to challenge and not least deliver, we have a good hope of that. We in the left think it's a very good arrangement, that we actually put it on offer, and that there were at least two that carry. Then a local representative from the Left, Ketil Kjenseth, will be allowed to talk about Ferne's airport. You can now look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3438	I refer you to the case spokesman's post and will comment briefly on the matter that concerns Leirin Airport. The Stortinget has previously agreed that Fenernes Airport should be operated as a clean charter airport by Avinor until local owners take over the Airport, but no longer than until 1 January 2019. The decision indicated that local business would cover part of Avinor’s costs in 2017 and 2018. Now we can record that local business does not have the power to cover some of the costs imposed by Storting’s decision and that no charter traffic has been planned at the airport in 2018. On that basis, Avinor difor has decided to close Fenernes Airport from 1 July 2018. In recent times, private operators have emerged, for example. represented by the business community of the region, who would like to continue to work in order to establish a charter aerodrome starting at Leirin Airport. From the Christian People's Party's side, we believe that closure from 1 July 2018 should not be done in a way that takes from these actors the ability to start an airport within a reasonable time perspective. This means that during this period the aerodrome shall not be stripped for equipment and essential installations shall not be dismantled. Today, the Christian People's Party makes a proposal that opens up such a possibility within a period of three years from the time of closure. With that, I will put forward our proposal in the matter and refer to the case-speaker's understanding, which is correct and can be relied on. The Christian People's Party will otherwise vote for the plural recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3448	The representative Tore Storehaug has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3453	We adopt a number of important things. Although they come into a pooling proposition, there are decisions that are going to mean a lot to the community and the inhabitants of our country. I am very pleased that we can now start building the E69 Skarvberg Tunnel in Finnmark. It is a stretch that is difficult to maintain, in an area where many travelers can now get a better travel day. The winter we had was an example of how vulnerable you are when nature gets crooked and the infrastructure is not good enough. Now we're going to cancel this, and construction can start already this year. So I would like to say congratulations on the day to all those who drive this road to daily. Another important road project is Rv. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox Yes, it must almost be the most important road project in the country when even EN now the whole heart goes in in order for us to have to build this as quickly as possible. In any other context, we're going to cut the road maps, especially if there's four fields or more. Here is a four-field road project that even SV fights for – and I take note of that. I promise that we will have good progress, and we will send a letter of assignment to Vegvesenet as soon as the Storting has made its decisions. I understand that the local population is ‘true’ after solving this. There has been a discussion of road billing for many decades. I have driven the route several times – both as a private individual and as a state councillor together with Vegvesen – and the needs are great. The challenge of poor ground conditions, on the other hand, has given rise to problems and made it difficult to start, and that's why we use the opportunity to see the whole route in one pass of E18. There are, after all, many of your cars. One of the government's wishes is to stop with piecewise and divided expansion, that we can build from A to Å when we first get started. This is such a road project. I have to remind you, when some people claim that this will take time and criticise it, that what they now want locally is a completely different trajectory than what has been planned before. One wants to restart the project, and at least one should not give the impression that it is the State Road Service that is the problem, because the State Road Service has complied with the decisions taken before. Now, if you want to change those decisions, it takes more time. I still think it makes sense that we are doing what the government has put forward, namely giving the Road Administration the freedom to assess all the different options, so that we can make informed alternatives when we are going to make a final decision. It's important for us to have control of the costs. It's important for us to know the consequences of the different options and evaluate them against each other. We know, for example. not what kind of mountain conditions there is where you want to build the tunnel. And even though I have a lot of party traps that want the Viking alternative more than welcome, we have to know that it's actually a good mountain that can be built in. I have no reason to believe anything else now, but it is about serious and proper proceedings. But the time aspect here is not necessarily ten years, although someone gives the impression and makes lots of baluba around it. When we talk to Vegvesenet, it is indicated that you should be able to finish the entire route in line with the plans that have been in the national transport plan, even if you might start the construction later. And that's also part of the goal – not that we're going to build for the longest period of time, but that we're going to build intensively, because it's actually when the road opens, that counts. It's very good when it comes to broadband and fiber. I'm busy that we're going to connect the whole country. That is why we have made changes to the aid schemes. We grant a lot of money, but even more important is to make sure that market players and the good guys can invest more. Norway is one of the countries where broadband investment is actually growing from year to year. We have also changed the system and presented it in this case. While the previous government offered to allocate the support scheme based on how many inhabitants there were in each state, where large population counties got the most money, we have also looked at where the needs are, where there is poor coverage. This means that counties like Sogn and Fjordane, Hedmark and Oppland have been among the biggest winners, and there is also the greatest need. A state like Finnmark had a broadband coverage of 7 pst. when we took over. It's now up to well over 80 pst. It shows bets in the districts. I also had to say a lot about Ferennes Airport. Time has passed from us. But we're going to follow up the decision that seems to get a majority here, and will do so in the hope that local actors will join in and take over this airport. They're probably going to be able to get it almost free of charge from us if they want it. We don't have to get in the way of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3470	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3475	I have questions for a matter that has not been mentioned from the pulpit here yet. Further progress is being made on the security of U-864 at Fedje, where it seems that the support fund has now been established and that progress has now been made there. I would like to hear a little about further progress plans for this, if the Council of State can give some overview of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3480	I think it is important that we try to make a decision on which approach we should proceed – really as quickly as possible. A supporting fill has been created, as informed. The coastal works believe that it has stabilised well and made the whole situation around the wreck much better. So for the assessment by the Coastal Plant of Mercury Dispersion: The fact that most of the containers are probably rusted up, makes the situation different from what you've believed before, as you hoped you could raise a lot of the wreck intact. It is important for me to listen to professionals, but it is also important for me that we listen carefully to the local population and to local actors. That's why at the end of this month I'm going to travel to Fedje. The Coastal Agency will invite you to an open information meeting where people can hear the Coastal Agency's assessments, and I think they will also invite other professional environments that will be able to give their assessments. Then, based on the reports that come and our meeting with local actors, we will try to make a decision during the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3487	I thank you for your additional answers. I want to go into another area, which is not so often exposed to a submarine. That's true of the Mjø area of the named E6 extension. The representative, Mr. Kjeseth, was in an earlier article today that I was busy with Rv. 4 and its interconnection to possibly increase the social benefits of investment in further E6 development – the mass use from Rv. 4 and E6. My question is the extent to which it is addressed pending a KS1 report on rv. 4 and the Gjøvik course, which is also at the bottom here. When will that report come, and can this be linked in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3494	I do not have in my head when that report will come, but I will make sure that the Storting is properly informed. We try to make sure that we both build infrastructure and get a lot of money back. Therefore, it has been important for us to expand many of the projects. At the same time, it has been important for us to ensure that we have a contract strategy that takes care of the big players, but that also takes care of the smaller actors, the so-called MEF actors. We can't just have difficult projects that make us not have the diversity that germinates and grows below. As far as the E6 project is concerned, there is an example where we're going to have New Roads set up the pillars themselves for where they start and where they end the project, just to be able to take the mass balance into account. I think it also has to be an approach to the way of seeing rv. The 4-way and associated railway on – that when you look at what to build and fix there, you can also look at the mass balance internally. We now have a funding of E6 that makes it natural that that's where we see in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3503	This concerns rv. 23, which soon becomes E134, as the representative Nävra pointed out correctly. It is not that there is anyone here who has given the impression that it is going to take ten years to build a new road between Dagslett and E18, and that there is a lot of baluba, as the Minister for Transport said. It was the representatives of the State Road Administration at the meeting on Rv. 23 in the smoking town hall yesterday that said, based on what is now in the collective proposition that we have for treatment, and the plans that the Vegvesen follows. So let me underline it, there's no one here who's made any baluba out of it -- that's what the Road Service is working from. My question is, is it so to understand that the Minister of Transport disagrees with what the Road Administration says, and that he makes progress faster? Then it is very good, but now the Minister of Transport can have the opportunity to explain what he thinks about the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3510	I almost took it as a compliment that the representative mentions the words “good” and “the Minister of Transport” at once – I will take that to heart, it does not happen often! Yes, we believe that it is possible to do this faster. But we have to remember that when the Road Service points to its time axes, they often take and have things in a sequence, and they expect that often there are conflicts, and they put it in. That's a little bit of the same thing we've heard when they've discussed or said how long it could take to fix rv. 19 in Moss, it's given that you can't do anything parallel. We're adding that we're going to do multiple things in parallel. But here it's about you having to be able to use the knowledge you have, and you have to be able to gain new knowledge. If local politicians are involved and contribute to reaching consensus quickly, things could go faster than if there was a big fight. I have registered some of the newspaper posts that have been, for example. in Lierposten, local Workers' Party people claim that the Right is completely opposed. I notice that the Right is of a different opinion. Some of that debate could affect the speed with which the Road Administration is able to find decisions that they can go further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3517	I don't think Right-wing representatives are so much of a different opinion, at least it didn't come out at yesterday's meeting, and if the Minister of Transport talks to his party traps in Lier, he'll probably get some of the same feedback, I think, if not exactly the same. But a little further east of the distance we're talking about now, is the Oslofjord tunnel, which we've discussed many times, which is one of, let's say, the challenges for the area we're talking about now, and the traffic east-west under the Oslofjord is increasing. There's something unclear what the government thinks. The national transport plan states that no decision has been taken as to whether to build a new tunnel run under Oslofjord, or whether to continue working with Brusplans, while representatives from parties with which the Minister of Transport cooperates are out saying that a new tunnel run should be built. The question is: is it now clear whether there will be a new tunnel in the Oslofjord tunnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3524	Firstly, my reference to the local representative of the Workers' Party who spoke in the Lierpost. It shows that there was a conflict. If the representative of Myrli can now confirm that that conflict does not exist anyway, I think it is very positive. It helps and helps to make decisions on a route to be built, and it will enable the Road Administration to have better progress. In the case of the Oslo Earth Tunnel, it is true that when the government presented the National Transport Plan, no final decision was taken. But the signals from Stortinget's treatment were very clear, that someone wanted to build a tunnel run to next to the tunnel that's now, and we're working with the Vegvesen on that progress. It's not a final decision, but we're going to communicate this to Stortinget in an appropriate way. We're basing on the leadership that Stortinget gave us in the National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3532	I just want to refer a little bit to the letter that came from the Lier rapporteur, who is a leader, a recommendation for a procedure by focusing on this long Viker option for Rv. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox Can the Council of State see any legal obstacles in the way of concentrating on one option, which is now agreed in the municipality? If he does, what other steps can the Council of State take so that we can get a faster treatment than for example. the possibility of retail regulation directly?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3537	I think it is very exciting when SV challenges all the frameworks for how to build a road, namely that we need to find shortcuts. One should like to skip the municipal sub-plan and go straight to the regulatory plans, where one should not have public hearings, not explore the options. Shall I take it as a signal closest to that that's how we can do it on other sections as well? Then there will be a lot of quadruple highways very many places. It wouldn't have been against me. We have announced in the matter we now report that we are not just going to carry out further work with Dagslett – Linnes – that is, the distance that has been taken on board – but that we will look at all the options. So it was the government that actually took the initiative to look at ownership. Now we've got those signals from the local government in Lier. We have met with a number of local representatives from the surrounding municipalities, including the county council. We want to realize this project. I am very happy that everyone agrees that this should be a four-field road project as well. Then we're going to make sure that we're well-informed when the decision is taken, and that we can build something that can be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3544	I thank you for your answer. The score by rv. 23 and this project is that it's very special. We've been investigating, and it's been discussing alternative trajectories for years. The local attitudes have appeared many times. The road authorities have come up with a lot of views, so there's been a lot of professional assessments. If you pick one option, we're talking about pretty simple issues. It's about what kind of rock we have for drilling all the way – it's that easy. But does the Council of State see any action that he can take to shorten the planning time for the hard hit population waiting for a result at Lahell?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3553	We're going to do what we do with a number of road projects -- try to make sure that several things happen in parallel instead of in sequences. In that it is possible to save a lot of time. Then it is also possible to discuss with local politicians whether one agrees that one can go straight on a regulatory plan instead of a municipal sub-plan. It will also save us time. But it could theoretically go beyond the ability of local democracy or the ability to make its contribution to this process. It also has to be taken with you – that when a person buys time in this way, that is, buys faster progress, there are other aspects that suffer. It's not necessarily a problem, but you have to be aware of it. So I think it's interesting with the approach to the representative Nävra when it comes to a heavily trafficked road that's close to where people live. It's exactly the same problem we have on the E18 West Corridor, where we want to put the road more into the tunnel, get more public transport, more walking and cycling. There's the logic that's the true opposite of SV, and that's why I think we still have some exciting discussions in front of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3560	Then the line chord change is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3567	I'm glad the red-green parties are so clear on the progress of rv. 23 and choice of road options, i.e. the Folder option. Of course, it is incredibly sad that there is now uncertainty because of cost excesses and basic circumstances, and therefore it is the responsibility of the State and the Minister for Transport to get out the uncertainty and to keep pace with the implementation of the road project. This route is absolutely vital national, regional and local. It has national value because it will make it easier to load on the capital, when you see the expansion of the Oslo Earth Tunnel and the new highway through Lier in the context. It is crucial for the region and the enormous developments taking place throughout the region of Drammens. Dwellings are to be built into thousands of new inhabitants. It's about creating jobs in the region, so not everyone has to go into Oslo to have a job, so people can live and work close to each other. A new hospital shall be built in Drammen, Braker Island, in a joint cooperation on planning between Lier and the municipality of Drammen. There will be a new hospital where the state will invest billions, there will be jobs for 4,000 people and a district hospital for Buskerud and popular parts of Akershus. Everything is related to everything in this area, and you're dependent on rv. 23 to ensure good traffic flow for the whole region, otherwise there would be queue and chaos. The road, of course, also has local importance. We're talking about a stretch where there's 18 000 vehicles running every day through a local environment that's definitely not dimensioned for so much traffic and heavy transport through residential areas. In order to ensure rapid progress, it is important to maintain funding for the project and to give high priority to planning and start-up. It is equally important to also clarify the road alternative, so that the state road system’s priority is quality assurance and implementation, not constant discussions about alternatives that local communities do not want. A unified local government in Lier has spoken, politically. The rapporteur in Lier, Gunn Cecilie Ringdal, who represents the Right and then the Government, demands action from the Stortinget. The Labour Party is showing action today and listening to what the community says. The Minister of Transport – as I know he likes chocolate milk – should take a little chocolate milk, fold up the sleeves, listen to what the community says, and make sure that this project is speeded up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3580	I start with the construction of the new Inland, because the majority – the government, at the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, and the Christian People's Party – have decided that we should have a new state, a new region: the Inland. The construction of four-field E6 from Colomen to Ensby is an important part of that construction project. Extending that path to Øyer is very good, and there is a vigorous planning work going on past Lillehammer now to keep you pace. There are many actors who are making a great deal of effort, from politicians to State Road Administration and not least New Roads, which are on their way. It ensures progress in that project. Then the question is whether it is possible to include the construction of the entire town area, including Gjøvik, in that construction project. A new millet is to be built, one kilometer south of today's and thus one kilometer closer to Gjøvik, and you have to extend to the four-field road from Mjøsbrua to Gjøvik, preferably with a tunnel below the city, and also connect to fv. 33 and build Raufoss – which is the major industrial engine in the Inland, where it has also become a catapult centre as part of the construction project we are doing in the Inland. We also got a university at Gjøvik, in the middle of it. That would be a very good solution. There will be even more mass if we take that tunnel, but the fact is today that in the round trip at the Castberg farm at Kirkeby on Gjøvik there is an annual traffic of 37 000, and there are not so many who beat it. So it shows some of the need to get away. So my party colleague Jon Gunnes introduced me to fly high when it comes to Leirin. I guess I did in 2015. The fight was about the flight offer at Leirin, and when it was not possible to maintain it, there was a prospect of having a charter airport there. That conversion time has been given, and many have been actively working on it. What we are doing today is supporting the Christian People's Party's proposal to extend that conversion period – that's right. And then we're also going to scale up to Trysil and Sälen. In Sälen, a new charter tourism airport is now being built, costing 1 billion dollars. kr. They have brought EU funds of 250 million. kr, and so much private capital is not available in Valdres and Hallingdal to speculate on a travel life that does not have so much gain on profitability. On the other hand, the inhabitants and the cabin people of Valdres are very pleased with the expansion of E16. It is particularly important and must continue. Then we're going to open up that it's possible to find investors, either in Asia or in Europe, who can help build a charter airport on Leirin.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3595	I must first be allowed to correct the misunderstanding I created instead, as I tried to correct what is in the proposal for a decision, which is obviously correct. It shall state the ‘E69 Skarvberg Tunnel’ and it shall be in Finnmark. It's not E6 that I tried to make that up. The confusion is probably caused by the fact that there was a bit of a wrong heading in the settings on one page a little further forward. So thank you to my good colleague Strifeldt for reminding me of that. And then I think this I'll probably hear about when we're going on a committee trip to Finnmark in September, and I promise to put all the road numbers in Finnmark. So a little comment on the proposals related to Ferener Airport, Leirin: for our part, we will support the proposal of the Christian People's Party, with the clarifications I had, and the confirmation they gave that there is a proper understanding of the proposal. This means that the airport will be closed on 1 July 2018, but that we will ensure that it will last for up to three years, so that we can make room for further work on possible charter solutions at that aerodrome, whether local or other owners are able to operate or take over that aerodrome. It would be very welcome if it could happen, and so on, it helps to give more space and time to work on it. I feel that the proposal to the Christian People's Party is significantly different from that presented by the Workers' Party and the Center's Party, as it implies a continuation of today's operations at the airport. So we're going to support that proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3606	An important part of the infrastructure under the responsibility of the Transport Committee is digital infrastructure. Now the Council of State – and I also noticed specifically the representative Strifeldt – said that it was the red-green ones who had created a digital class division. Since the red-green governments, both Vipps and iPhone and a number of things have come, so the world is moving forward. What's a little funny is that today's government proposal is the same as what was closed in 2014, by the same government. In 2013, county councils had earmarked their own funds for broadband, and they had 1.3 billion. kr extra in regional development funds, which were used to develop broadband where it was not commercially viable. The availability of digital infrastructure is an important condition for business and not least for public services. In addition, it is not the Progress Party that has stood for the pot of the application-based scheme, where the Christian People's Party and the Left have rocked them every year for the last three years by proposing – and getting an impact – to double that pot. So I hope for our districts, where broadband is not commercially profitable, that our proposal will be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3615	I forgot to thank the case manager at the beginning of the work. He is usually very tidy, but even the best person can do wrong, especially when talking about road numbers and different things. I shall promise that this shall not be used against the representative and the chairperson of the committee at a later date. I am pleased with the signals that the Council of State gives by assessing different scenarios around the further development of E6 from Mjøsbrua in the direction of Lillehammer. 4 in a further expansion. I also want to make it clear that the Center Party initially wanted us to still operate on Leirin. A charter series for Valdres and Hallingdal is planned for the winter, but they will now have to go to the Gardermoen and get transport up to the destinations of Beitostølen, Filefjell and Golsbergellet. The proposal made by the Christian People's Party is a proposal which at least takes care of and clarifies that the aerodrome should not be stripped down, and that he should still be in the technical state he is today, while a waits for the operating company that is currently under establishment. I would also like to point out that when the representative Nävra claims that it is allowed to use his head once in a while, I will certainly listen to it, and I think he has also used his head this time here about Rv. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox Then I'll notify you that the Center Party will support proposal No. 4, which SV has with the Workers' Party on Rv. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3626	First of all, I would like to signal support for the Christian People's Party's proposal on Leirin. It can be noted to this extent. I want to address the question of phase-in of zero-emission technology for passenger vessels in Oslofjord. It has not been mentioned as far as I have heard here in the hall – it must have been in the past. It's also mentioned in the compound proposition. I think it's a huge potential for traffic in the inner Oslofjord. If we get zero-emission technology, we get two flies in one taste. We're talking here about opportunities for traffic from the Hurum Peninsula, which is growing in population, the Fornebuland, which is growing enormously with jobs and housing, and then of course we have the traditional access points from the past. Of course, this is a matter where county councils have to sit in the driver's seat. It's a county responsibility, and it's also the ones behind the report that was released last year about which technology you could rely on – hydrogen or electricity. The report concludes that both components are as far as possible but that if hydrogen is selected, either alone or in combination solutions, there is a certain need for a test period. Therefore, it also has to some extent the character of a pilot project. That means that the State should have a responsibility to be involved and initiate and support the project. That is the background to the proposal we have put forward today in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3636	It was Ketil Kjenseth from Left and Uppland who talked about the previous route offer at Fenerne Airport, Leirin. He said something like that it was not possible to maintain the route offer. It was, but the Left was there, together with the Christian People's Party and the Right, here in this room to decide that the route offer should be dropped. There is no law of nature that says that there should be no route offer at Fentern Airport, Leirin, that's what Stortinget has decided. What one should have done instead was to improve the route offer at Leirin and maintain the airport as a state airport operation of Avinor, as on our other airport network. We have a very up-and-coming travel industry both in Valdres and in Hallingdal, which is also occupied by the airport at Leirin. But to bear in mind that the tourism industry is going to take responsibility for operating the airport without public assistance or without government subsidies, I think only we have to admit is very difficult. And it has turned out in the past that one has failed to find a concept for it. It's probably possible to visualize it, but I think that solution is very far inside. What we should have done was to make sure that there was regular service at Leirin, to ensure that the airport was operated by Avinor, as at other airports – at least they all, most – in this country, and then the charter traffic had to come as a complement to the ordinary operation. That's how we should have done it, but unfortunately, the bulk of the population would have changed. The charter traffic would have been the largest part of the traffic with such a scheme, but the foundation and operation of the airport should have been as before, and then the charter traffic had to have come as a complement. Unfortunately, it is now broken, and it seems very difficult to get a route offer on Leirin again. I hope with all my heart that it is possible, and that business interests and others can find a solution, but I must say that I doubt it strongly when until now no solution has been found. The Christian People's Party's proposal, that the aerodrome not be built down and taken out, so that it will make it impossible for further operations in the future, is at least a small rescue plan. We therefore support the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3647	I'm so lucky I got a letter from the council today. There was an answer to a question about the E39 and the planning process for the route Lwagal–Ålgård. Before the elections, we heard from the Progress Party in particular, but also from representatives of the government parties, that only they got rid of the municipal planning processes, this would be inevitable. Now the Minister for Transport has been responsible for the development of transport for five years, and we are still waiting on a level. The solution, which was to be a state plan, has wandered in the State departments. The plan has been in the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Transport. It is now in the Ministry of Transport, and now the Council of State responsible for this has made changes in 2014 and 2015. In 2015 and 2016 it was planned, and in 2017 it was hearings – first one hearing, then a new hearing. The Minister of Transport has not yet been able to take any concrete action on this route. Now the matter is going back to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The Council of State writes optimistically that soon – ‘very quickly’, by the way, it says in the letter of reply – it will come to the Ministry of Local Affairs. Then, when the Ministry of Local Affairs again has had the matter, the municipal plan and the KU should come. I hope that the Council of State can use a little bit of its speaking time to clarify a time horizon for people in the South for when this migration in the Departments is over. Perhaps the Council of State may also say something about how pleased he is that, when the Progress Party has been responsible for the planning work in the Ministry of Transport, it has taken more than five years not to get an action in place, and that the answer is still a new plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3654	I'm going to talk about this more than I would like to talk about. Building a better E39 between Stavanger and Kristiansand has been important for many decades. I have at least over 40 years of memories of driving on that road, which has been very bad. Tempo – a long time has been spent building motorways on the Stavanger–Kristiansand route – has been a few km a year. If we were to keep up the pace that previous governments have made, we would have come forward with completed four-fields in the year 2615. It says a little bit about what inheritance we have when it comes to building a road in this country. I don't think the Labour Party should be proud of the year 2615. Even if it's a little bit of a researched math, it reflects history up to now. Nothing of the Workers' Party did when they themselves sat in government, suggesting that this road would start over the next ten years. When we discussed this road section in 2014/2015 in connection with Nye Veier, the response from the Arbeiderpartiet was that they would build the Ålgårdbahnen before Stavanger–Kristiansand. Eelgårdbahnen was more important, but Ålgårdbahnen did not have a crown in the national transport plan from the red-green ones that applied until 2023. It says a little bit about the time horizon and about the lack of willingness to prioritize. When we took over, this was like a thought of maybe a two to three-field road on large parts of the distance. We believe that this is too bad, and therefore we have spent some time planning this as a four-field project with a speed limit of 110 km/h, thus ensuring that the project is so large that when you build it, one will also be finished – not 2 km per year, but 20 km by 2027. New roads say their goal is to finish this 2027 journey. Then it's not necessarily what time a starter is important, but what time the road is actually open to traffic. The representative Henriksen said that the southerners are now waiting to get started. Then I just remember that the contract to go from the south to the north is already in the market. New roads are already out to get the contractor to start building the road. What we're spending a little bit of time on is from the north and south, just because we're looking at three different trasé alternatives, the outer, the middle and the inner, where neither the outer nor the middle were inside the Workers' Party. Then I think it makes sense that we take some time to find something that is locally wanted, and find out if it is possible to realize it costly, technically, in terms of agriculture, etc. The last thing I expected to get criticism from was the Workers' Party, which actually wouldn't start this project until after they had built up a railway section locally in Rogaland. I am happy that we have progress, I am glad that we have made it a larger and better project, and I am happy that we have created New Roads, so that this project will also be completed during the lifetime of this government. We're going to rule for a few more years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3671	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3690	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given by members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3701	There has long been a cross-political desire to realise CO2 capture and storage in Norway. New research reports show that this is needed and show that there is an important issue the Committee has been dealing with. Antarctica has since 1992 lost incredible 3,000 billion tons of ice, enough to cover the state of Texas with 4 meters of water. If the ice melting continues in this way, the maps of our planet must be redrawn, with new coastlines. That's what NASA scientists say. If we're going to be able to achieve the world's climate targets to limit the temperature increase to a maximum of 2 degrees, at least 1.5 degrees, we don't just have to cut emissions, we have to be very likely to become carbon negative. We have to take CO2 out of the atmosphere. In this picture, the development of carbon capture and storage technologies is crucial. Norway has what is needed to be world leaders in the field. We have technological competence to remove CO2, we have high point emissions, and we have storage capabilities. We can make carbon capture and storage a promising opportunity in the fight against climate change. Despite the broad political consensus on the commitment, which is also reflected in part in the committee's position, I become somewhat concerned when the government in the draft revised national budget for 2018 writes that carbon capture and storage must be assessed against other climate action. Here we are talking about the development of an entirely new and crucial technology to achieve our climate goals. It's not going to be cost-effective with the first, but we're equally dependent on developing it anyway. The majority of the Committee believes that we need proposals for different funding models both in the short and longer term. We need funding for the first capture and storage project, as well as how to finance the next until carbon capture and storage is commercially available. And not least, the majority of the Committee believes that we need an obsessive progress plan, so that investment decisions can be made by spring 2020 at the latest. Clearances around funding will increase predictability and ability to invest. I would like to remind Stortinget that the Stortinget already in the context of the processing of the Energy Communication in 2016 asked the government to investigate financing models for carbon capture and storage. Therefore, the majority of the Committee considers that it is time to undertake further work on this matter. With this, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee and wish for a good summer – and recommend the decisions adopted by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3716	I want to start by thanking the case rapporteur for doing a very good job. We appreciate that. The case is therefore well-lit in the setting. The majority of the committee, which represents the opposition except for the Christian People's Party, has been made visible the importance of having funding models investigated quickly and to look at the role of Gassnova around this in the future. Because we can face an industrial venture that can be based on enhanced competence, the development of new technologies, the deployment of already existing technologies, the exploitation of the competitive advantages we have in nature, and the reduction of climate change emissions. It's really a great package. All of these areas give us the opportunity to take a global leadership role in this area, if we're correct. Then we need to develop good projects and look at the whole value chain and get a future market both nationally and internationally. Sintef has produced an on-demand report from LO and NHO showing an enormous potential for creating new jobs. In concrete terms, they refer to 30 000–40000 new jobs in this segment, but include ring-effects, with a total of 70 000 jobs up to 2050. So far, we have had three projects to capture CO2. After Yara's withdrawal, we are left with two projects: cement production in Norcem in Brevik and waste management at Fortum Oslo Heat plants on Klemetsrud. Industry is ahead and will help us achieve the zero-emission society by 2050. Economic operators request investment decisions on a timely basis. It is necessary to be able to make an obliging progress plan for investment decisions in the field of capture and storage in the spring of 2020. We fear several government postponements before the investment decisions are made, which will be very unfortunate. Political decisions are therefore required both in the short term and in the long term. A robust sum into the state budget in the future, I think we all have to prepare for it. Our proposal comes because there is still a lot of uncertainty about how fast the government is now able to run all the necessary processes, and with the deferrals the government came in last autumn, increasing the uncertainty among the actors. We need the timeframe to be kept and the framework to be laid. It doesn't keep up with good talk, we need action, and it's needed now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3729	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3734	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3739	Then the representative Else-May Botten has drawn up the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3744	Getting CO 2 capture and storage in Norway is a cross-political wish, and that is good. There are almost no scenarios in which we can achieve the 2-degree target without capture, and in the scenarios outlined, climate solutions are becoming much more expensive. It tells us that climate policy is about more than just what is obvious. It is also about a sustainable economic policy, that there are several things we want to do, both to combat climate change and to protect the welfare state of future generations. Then we need to give priority to climate action, depending on how much we get for each spent crown, for both climate policy and economic reasons. That's why I'm glad it's the four parties on the non-socialist side that have had the climate initiative in Norway since we had a red-green government, because the climate announcement that the red-green government presented had low ambitions. For once, the red-green parties would listen to the other parties – it was unique in those years. Perhaps it was not so strange that in the last period the Workers' Party started a ‘listen tour’ where they traveled around the country and listened. They hadn't done that in a while. We haven't seen so many results of it, because it was probably most a gimmick, but in any case they decided to listen to other parties when they made the climate announcement, and it was the four non-socialist parties that drew the climate announcement in a more ambitious and environmentally friendly direction. Earlier in ours, we also saw the four parties, together with the Centre Party, wanting to link Norwegian climate policy with EU climate policy. It makes Norwegian climate policy more offensive, and it commits us. Now we've done it again - with CCS. I therefore refer to the agreement between the four parties in the revised national budget, where, among other things, this is the agreement between the four parties. states that you should: «rarely initiate the pre-projection of CCS on both Norcem and Fortum Oslo Heating, given that the quality-assured information permits the pre-projection of the Fortum installations as described in Prop. [[2017-2018]] 85 S In addition, it says: «The government is asked to provide an appropriate orientation during spring 2019 on current financing models for full-scale capture, storage and transport of CO 2.» So the initiative is on our side of the table. I'm glad. It is important to deliver on climate. Had the red-greens been more concerned with constructive cooperation than looking for headlines, they could also have participated in this. But, as it is called in English, 'if you snooze, you loose.' Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to wish the Council of State and the entire Committee a good summer. We have fun together in the committee, and I think the cooperation works well. I'm glad these are my colleagues. Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of the Committee. It has been a pleasure to get acquainted with and work with her, and it is sad that she ends. I know I'm talking on behalf of the whole committee when I say, "Thank you!"
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3773	The representative Stefan Heggelund forgot to thank the president, but the time had passed, so it must dare. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3778	The government is working to put in place a cost-effective technology for the capture, transport and storage of CO 2 and to implement a full-scale CO 2 management solution in Norway. The government goes on to design up to two capture installations and refers to the revised national budget, where the Stortinget asks for this to be followed up. It is the result of this pre-projection that must form the basis for any investment in a demonstration plant. Experience from this project should form the basis for a financing model for CO 2 transport and storage in a commercial operating phase. If we are to achieve the international emissions reduction objectives, capture and storage are important, unless it is a decisive measure. Norway is in a special situation and has good prospects for success, but it is very expensive. Then it is important that we get cost-effective processes and solutions and anchor the project in a way that creates predictability in the future. High investment needs and high operating costs combined with low income opportunities are rarely a good starting point for the realisation of business ideas. Therefore, it is essential that decisions in the case be based on knowledge and experience. It is important for the tax money of the inhabitants, the business community and any other participants in the project. If capture and storage are to be an effective climate action, industry needs stable frameworks and business models. We have experienced attempts at moon landings in the past, but how many times a person can take off without being able to land.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3796	It is clear that there is a broad consensus in this House that we need carbon capture and storage of negative emissions in the fight against climate change. Norway has all the prerequisites for sitting in that driver’s seat. We have technology, we have willing industrial actors, we have suitable facilities to run capture by, and we have a great storage potential. This is – as was said earlier – a gift package. It will be positive to achieve the climate objectives, which are the most important in this case, but also positive for Norwegian industry, Norwegian exports and Norwegian jobs. This view is supported by heavy knowledge and research environments, industrial actors, environmental movement and trade union movement. What we need now – and I think I hear it from all the parties now – is predictability and progress, because the crucial point to realize the first capture facilities so that we get a complete value chain for capture and storage up and up, is to put in place the framework. It's about putting pressure on the case. The Central Party believes that the proposals of the majority of the Committee in this matter are making, at a time of urgency, and where the actors themselves say that there is an urgent need to make clear progress and to determine the number of demonstration facilities. It was just said by the representative Terje Halleland that there is financial risk associated with this, but there is always new technology. It's always a financial risk related to infrastructure, which we're talking about building in this case, and then I think it's strange that the government parties and the Christian People's Party cannot help in figuring out the funding model. I am therefore disappointed that the majority of the Committee on Budgets is probably not getting a majority in the Chamber today in order to precisely explore the financing models and put in place an obliging progress plan. I believe that we owe the actors, that we owe the generations after us, to achieve the climate goals, and it would also have been positive for both industrial development and technology development. As Heggelund thanked most, I will, on behalf of the Committee, take care to thank Heggelund for a good cooperation. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3808	I start where the representative Myhrvold almost ended. A gift package – yes, this could be the big gift package to the climate and to the globe in the next decades to get to the emission cuts we need to make sure we don't overheat the globe in the next few years. But it's a precious gift package. In Europe today, Norway is the leader. Then, the EU has a 200-project action package to help cut climate change – potential projects. Carbon capture and storage have come in again after having been out for a good part of the year and are now in 173rd place. It says something about the challenges we're facing. Here there is a lack of both knowledge and funding, and some countries also lack the opportunity to take the big promise. Here, Norway has one of the major opportunities, as has been pointed out here. But now is the time to spend with our neighbouring countries, Sweden, Finland and Denmark, and also to hedge the Netherlands. The Nordic countries now have a real chance of rigging to become CCS clusters in Europe. In particular, Sweden, but also Finland, has been very good at expanding and using bioenergy, and they plan to grow up in biocarbons over the next five–six years. This fits well into an industrial cluster in Europe if we work together and take advantage of each other's advantages. It's also about finding a financial match and subtracting some of the load. We have a good opportunity to – and to recreate some of what we have done in the electricity sector in the last 25 years, and build it for the future. It's also about thinking about hydrogen. Some of this debate has been discussed, among others. in the context of the climate strategy, and it was the government parties and the Christian People's Party that were in the rush to develop a Nordic hydrogen strategy. So we follow up. But what lags a little bit among the minority is the experience after Mongstad, which was going to be a moon landing. It's been incredibly expensive, and we haven't got the results we wanted. Therefore, there is no reason now to be in a hurry, to have too strong a commitment and to shout too much about a single financing model. Those we're able to figure out for the next few years, and the actors that are going to drive this forward are not saying that this is going to go faster right now. We've got the year we've been on the pre-project.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3821	I believe that the debate on this matter bears witness to the good spirit of the committee and good cooperation, for which I also think it is important to thank, and I support the thanks that have been given before. Sufficient emissions of CO 2 are not realistic without the capture and storage of CO 2. Then there was an important clarification that was put in place in the negotiations on the revision, including one of them. states that there is money in the budget to carry on two projects – and this should be done as quickly as possible – and not least that the government should provide information on current financing models for full-scale capture, storage and transport in the spring of 2019. I'm very satisfied with that and I think it's good. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the state contributes to the project progress being as seamless as possible. The project is already delayed after the plan. Delays resulting from technology development are difficult to deal with, but one must be able to avoid additional delays as a result of decisions not being made in time, poor planning or untimely use. The state must help us to progress as quickly as possible within what is technologically and qualitatively defending. The storage of CO 2 on Norwegian soils can also be a solution for other countries in Europe. In contrast to other countries in Europe, Norway has quite unique possibilities because we can store CO 2 far from busses and other human activities. Several European storage projects have been stranded precisely because potential stocks were too close to where people live. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important to establish good cooperation with future buyers of storage space, and believes this will be important to get these projects sufficiently robust. It will also provide and secure long-term funding. It is important that the government intensifys efforts to provide European partners for the transport and storage project. Let me end with comments that this has been a moon landing project -- at least it's a previously described version of CO 2 storage and capture. I got with myself that in Stavanger Aftenblad, the representative of the Progress Party in the committee raised this to become a landing on Mars. I'm not going to go into that debate, but just comment that if we get to this, it's one giant leap for mankind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3851	I want to present the European perspective in this matter. Let's do the Netherlands first. The Netherlands has just adjusted its climate and CCS ambitions following a legal case in which it was sentenced to improve its climate action. Around one third of these cuts are to be taken by means of carbon capture in industry, approximately. Eighteen million. tonnes, and waste incineration, 2 million. tonnes. The port city of Rotterdam is central to Dutch CCS policy. They have their own plans to create a CCS cluster of a number of industrial enterprises. The port manager, Castelein, has said to the industrial companies in the port area: only live the CO 2 at their factory port, and we will take care of the rest! Rotterdam is also aware of its role as a possible intermediate station for CO 2 from industrial clusters in the Ruhr area of North Rhine-Westphalia. Then a little bit about Germany. They have great ambitions in the climate field. The only way to achieve this goal, given the dependence on coal, is CCS. They do not have their own offshore storage options and therefore depend on storage elsewhere, for example. in the North Sea. They have very large industrial point emissions in Ruhr and along the Rhine. CO 2 can be transported down the Rhine to Rotterdam and from there. So a little bit about Norwegian jobs. A commitment to CO 2 management in Norway could strengthen the competitiveness of between 80 000 and 90 000 existing jobs in Norway in process and maritime industries, according to SintEF. If we include indirect jobs related to these industries, the investment can strengthen a total of between 160 000 and 200000 jobs. The initiative could also create between 30000 and 40000 jobs by 2050. Between 6000 and 20,000 of these could be related to the CO 2 management industry and technology among Norwegian actors. This is why the Environmental Party of the Greens – just like the BI, SINTEF, Norwegian Industry, Industry Energy, Norwegian Oil and Gas, Bellona, Zero and many others – believes that the government and the Storting must emphasise the following in their assessment of this full-scale project and CO 2 capture funding: the full-scale project will create market opportunities for Norwegian industry in the field of capture, transport and storage. Without CO 2 capture and storage, neither Norwegian nor European industry can achieve its sectoral climate objectives. According to Norwegian legislation, Norway will achieve its climate targets by 2030 in common with the EU. Therefore, the focus on the full scale project must be seen in the context of European efforts. There are a number of CCS projects in Europe that depend directly or indirectly on the Norwegian full-scale project. That means we need to see the financing of a full-scale model in a slightly longer perspective, more than ten years. It means a lot to socio-economic profitability and will also provide climate benefits. So in the case of the financing model now: Just do it!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3887	I note that across parties we agree that CO 2 management must be put in place as an important climate action. Both the United Nations Climate Panel and the International Energy Agency, the IEA, believe that we need to have a feasible carbon capture and storage solution in place to achieve the objectives of the Paris agreement at the lowest possible cost. Long-term financing of CO 2 management is an important issue for both the Committee and the government. However, the important thing now is to continue the planning of the Norwegian full-scale demonstration project. We propose, in the revised national budget, the allocation for the pre-projection of both transport and storage and up to two capture installations, as referred to earlier, Norcem's cement plant in Brevik, and we are now working on quality assurance of the additional information related to the Fortum Oslo Heating plant on Klemetsrud. We will come back quickly with conclusions from there, during the summer. What has now been put into the RNB agreement between the Christian People's Party and the government parties will be followed up, and we will provide a briefing on possible funding models during spring 2019. What is important to emphasise in this matter is that our full-scale demonstration project alone will not trigger this to be the success both for the climate and for the industry that has been pointed out by others. We need to get CCS up on the international agenda and bring countries and parts of the world with us and work together across public authorities and industry on a large scale. For this to be the climate action that we point to, it must be rolled out widely from 2030 onwards, not least in the industrial sector, in the process industry, where there are no other options, such as: changing the energy source, because CO 2 emissions are part of its industrial processes. I feel that there is now a much greater international commitment to CCS again. Where a few years ago we talked about the power sector and use in coal-fired and gas-fired power plants, we are now talking about CCS to a much greater extent related to industry. That's good. So we need to look at the learning of our project and cost reductions in it, which can also be passed on across borders, to our colleagues out there. I can mention that I have recently met with both the Dutch and the British Minister of Energy where CCS was on the agenda. In addition to our full-scale project, there is a broad international effort to get this back on the agenda. Norway took an initiative not later than three weeks ago together with the United States and Saudi Arabia to raise CCS, or CCUS, on the agenda of the Clean Energy Ministerial, where all the important energy nations are represented. We will now continue to work on the project. We will focus on international work. We want to work to bring down costs. It is absolutely essential that this be a success and get the learning effect and the infection effect globally that we are looking for. We will also seek to reduce the costs of the state by looking at the costs that industry can bear, what other co-financing might contribute to the project, whether it is the EU or individual countries in Europe. In short: with regard to the intentions of the proposal, and what is now the majority position, from the committee, properly, related to Gassnova and their mandate and role, it is assessed on an ongoing basis – and Gassnova already has a major role in the full-scale project in terms of both profit-making and the international dialogue we have with potential partners – and will, of course, also be assessed in view of the long-term perspective of CO 2 capture and storage. So when it comes to financing models and business models, we're going back to spring 2019. But it is important that what we are going to develop there is also based on experience that we are reaping through the work on the full scale project, because it will be the first whole value chain the world has seen where we look at both capture, transport and storage with the capacity we are talking about here, which can also serve the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3918	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3923	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good contribution, simply because he explains how to work on it, and it is good to make it quite clear that the funding model will be in place in 2019. But it's also urgent to look at how to manage to have this in the short term and in the long term. In the transport sector, there is a national transport plan. The defense has a long-term plan. So, this is not a project that will last only one year, and there will be costs every year for several years. So I actually have a concrete question that goes about how the Council of States looks at different alternatives to putting it into practice. Because when the actors first get a green button, there must be a green button for the whole bet and important for predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3928	Predictability is crucial in such a project, and it is clear that as soon as the project is completed and we come to Stortinget with a case in 2020/2021, it will have to contain a final recommended funding solution if there is a positive government recommendation. Agreements must then be reached with the industrial players we are talking about here, both on the fishing side and on the transport and storage sides. There will be binding agreements that bind the country’s involvement in the project, both through the investment phase – which will soon be over two, perhaps beyond three years – where installations are to be expanded, both on the catch and stock side, and then in the operational phase itself, where the project will be tested and we will gain important experience, which is not only important for Norway and Norwegian industry and the future of CCS in Norway, but primarily important in an international perspective, because very many people’s eyes are now internationally focused on this project in Norway. It is the foremost and most important project in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3933	Yes, it is important to work with international cooperation and to look at how we can take on a leadership trough in this work, but also how we can bring with us other partners, and the EU is such an alternative. I would then like to ask the Council of State how it is understood that such cooperation should be, because it is incredibly important that we take a run with the EU or other countries, that it does not delay the processes in any way. If we, for example, wait a long time for decisions from the EU and there will then be deferrals, it will be detrimental both to the Community's money and to the actors. Can the Council of State say a little about how to run it, and how to ensure that there are no postponements because of that cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3940	Our intention is to use the period during which a person will carry out pre-projects, both on the catch and on the stock side, to really work towards the EU and possibly individual countries in Europe. Because it is clear that, in particular, the storage facility to be established here is of great interest to other European countries. Already now, there is the possibility of a list of major infrastructure projects in the EU with an interest in the whole of Europe, known as ‘Projects of Common Interest’, where we look at the opportunities for co-financing. But we're early in that race. As we get to concreteise our full-scale project through pre-projecting and approach an investment decision, we see ourselves working in parallel with funding, both towards the EU and towards individual countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3945	I have another question about demo facilities. Often it has been that the state has come in with a lot of money in the beginning, so you have finished the demo project, and then it will be commercialized afterwards. But does the Council of State think that there should also be commercialisation in the demo project, and how should it be dealt with against possible subsidisation, legislation and any ESA authorisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3950	It is clear that State aid, the contribution to this project, is currently being made. Essentially – if not a hundred percent – is a large state contribution in the current phase of investigation. But we're also going to have a large share of government funding when you come to an investment decision and you're going to put it into operation. It will have to be within the framework of EU State aid legislation, it needs to be clarified with ESA, and it is part of the work that will now be done in the future. So it's important that we constantly work towards a long-term goal, which is commercialization, that this should be profitable. Then we're probably dependent on something happening to the global carbon pricing at large. It is also important that we manage to get more projects, so that we can gradually – as with other technologies that are being developed in the climate area now – continually drive prices down through technology development. That is what has happened to electric cars, and that is what is happening in the renewable sector with both wind and solar power.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3958	The Council of State confirmed that a funding model would be in place in 2019. And it is clear that if all these clarifications are to be made, with the EU, that you are going through the ESA, etc., it will not be easy to get it through quickly. My question is, as a matter of fact, how the Council of States sees fit to reach an investment decision in the spring of 2020. Can the Council of State say that's what the ambition is also on the part of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3963	Let me underline what lies in the agreement between the Christian People's Party and the government parties in the revised national budget; it is that we should provide an orientation on possible funding models in spring 2019. It will then be necessary to look at the entire pre-projecting phase and towards an investment decision in order to finally land what funding model we will have on this full scale project. In this case, there is also a discussion on what should be a future funding model for further projects in Norway, but also on jobs internationally – what it will look like there. As far as the final progress plan is concerned, my clear ambition – and the government's clear ambition – is that we should be ready for a decision in 2020, as early as possible. But it's important to us that we have quality in what we deliver. We can't afford to fail. All eyes are on this project. Then we're going to put the quality ahead of stressing months when it comes to a possible investment decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3974	In a short time, the State Council receives the quality assurance report for the Fortum carbon capture project here in Oslo, and the Council of State says that the government will treat it as soon as possible. Can the Council of State confirm that the government will come to its conclusion on the further progress of the Fortum during the summer before us?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3979	What I can confirm is that we are promised to have the additional quality assurance report presented on 28 June. Then we in the Ministry of Oil and Energy will work through it quickly and get the matter assessed by the government – so we will work as quickly as possible. The ambition expressed in the agreement between the Christian People's Party and the government parties in connection with the RNB is to deliver the conclusion during the summer. We have a right to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3984	The representative has another line, please!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3989	It's not a line. I forgot in my good summer greetings from the pulpit instead of sending it to the Council of State, so I do it now – with hope of rapid progress and a good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3994	In the range of thanks, I get the opportunity – since no one else has – to thank the President and the entire presidency. It may not be the presidency that has received most gratitude in the last six months, but it may be in place now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e3999	Then I think I can safely say that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4004	The representative Heggelund had in his article a rather creative story story. He makes it appear that it is this government that has taken significant action for the climate. Then it's worth coming up with some facts, and it's that the emissions went down in the years the red-green government crashed. So they flattened out a little bit when this government came into place, and then eventually went down a little bit. But it turned out that it was due to the introduction of palm oil into the biofuel, which increased global emissions. The red-green government also presented several climate announcements with concrete climate action on how to cut emissions, which we have so far not seen from this government. Of course, we can stand here with these verbal aisles against each other. It could have been fun it wouldn't have been because this is a serious topic. Climate change is in progress, and they should have been much smaller than they are today. In Norway, emissions per person are still very high compared with other countries. That's why we need so much to get climate capture in place and succeed in these projects. Several of the representatives who have spoken so far have moved Mongstad forward. You could use Mongstad as a scare hanging there, and say you failed. But if this government had just made it clear and dared to bet that way -- we're going to fail on the road to solving the climate problem, because you need courage, and you need the big visionary projects -- then we would have learned a lot from Mongstad. What we have learned is, among other things, what we have learned. how to allocate risk and how to distribute the bill. It is not primarily a lesson on urgency, but on clear commitments and a clear implementation plan. That is also what is contained in the proposals that Stortinget is dealing with today. They do not ask for urgency, nor do they ask that things should go too slowly, they ask for predictability. And that's what we wanted from this government. I also think that the Council of State Søviknes made a good contribution. It is in particular the extent of challenges globally that he is bringing forward, which I think is wise. Clearly, although we manage to catch carbon in Norway, there is no guarantee that we will succeed internationally. It's worth noting. Therefore, it is also so important to underline the proposals currently available on medium- and longer-term financing models. It's not just succeeding in the technology that's central here, it's finding the concrete funding models and the concrete implementation models that you can succeed with in other countries as well. This is where the challenge lies both in Norway and internationally. I hope we can work together on that – rather than attacking each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4015	I can't avoid commenting on Heggelund's posts, nor can I, for it started reasonably fresh – with a healthy against, reasonably inflated. But it may be easy to bring this down again, because after all they have to deliver, and Heggelund we have on tape, so you have to be careful when the new state budget comes forward; we hear what it really is. When you hear the posts here, it's like both the Sørviknes, the Hegglund and the Kjeseth have a very good time. They're talking about it being an important project, but we have a lot of time. And they can't really get that stressed enough. Kjeseth really just said that he has good time, not what he should do. But he can have the pleasure of taking it when he comes up and will talk in the next article. But we don't have a lot of time, and it's incredibly important that we rig the systems to get these projects landed. It's an industrial adventure we're talking about. We have tremendous opportunities here to create jobs, create values, make use of natural advantages. So here we don't have much time. There are many things that need to be rigged, and you have to take this seriously. In all seriousness, there are many who are driving and thanking both one and the other here. One that has been in the committee for six months and that is not to be here until the harvest is Per Espen Stoknes. He is the only one in the committee – as I have seen at least – who has danced on the platform here and had more or less standing up-show to the delight of all Norway. At least I want him to have a really good summer and thank you for a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4024	To the representative Else-May Botten, there's probably no doubt that the Left has been a pusher in opposition to get to projects with carbon capture and storage in Norway, and that's what we've taken into the government now. It's a bad course. There's money in place. It's progress. So it's hard not to see that we have a plan. So over to what's the important skill, regardless of the parties and constellations here, that the representative Kaski from SV was in. Financing models are important, and from 2021 on, Norway will, when we now agree with the EU to cut 40pst. until 2030 in the non-quota sector, start to keep emission accounts. We have to report to the European Union. It is also tightened up in the quota sector, so the fossil sector must also take its part. We have a clear plan up to 2030, and then carbon capture and storage comes as a bonus if we do manage to get started with a big catch before 2030. That funding scenario also provides an opportunity in the waste sector. Fortum has now made a great effort to strengthen its project organisation. Fortum is a major industrial player, for example. building a large waste facility in Singapore, where the Committee will be on a comitology mission and learn more about both palm oil and waste challenges. When the world goes from 7 billion to 9 billion people in the next decades, more waste will be generated. More have to bring in landfills. More must start with combustion plants. Here's the mass of point emissions where the carbon capture can enter. There's a lot of pipes in the future that can be involved and finance just the technology that we're talking about here. That is why that sector is particularly important. We can draw this further. In my post I also talked about hydrogen. If we can get up a biological production of hydrogen, not just fossil and coal-based, we have broken some climate nuts in the next few years. In the middle of this is Norway with its adventurous possibilities. But we're not going to sit with our legs in the cross on Soria Moria and look outside. It's the technology, it's the cuts, the climate cuts, the CO 2 cuts, which are important, and then the jobs come as a bonus. We can potentially create many jobs, but Norway also has other major challenges in the next decades, with its population composition and demography, so there are many challenges to solve. We need to get the technology from other places. As chairman of the committee, I would like to thank the Committee for the work it has done, and then I thank the presidency – well, blow!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4043	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4057	I will first be allowed to thank the presidency for having given me the opportunity to explain to the Storting about my decision to consent to the temporary armaments of some police patrols in Oslo Centre. I have today agreed that the Police Directorate can decide that some police patrols in central parts of the Oslo Centre should be armed for a period of up to three months. The purpose of the decision is to enable the police to address and limit the consequences of possible terrorist attacks, such as: attacks with intent to maximise the damage rate by means of firearms, knives or vehicles in densely populated areas. The background to this decision is that the Police Directorate asks the Ministry to consent to such weapons on the basis of the fact that the description of modes operating, the current threat assessment, affects some areas of the central parts of the Oslo Centre which it is particularly important to protect. These areas are characterised by a high density of symbolic buildings, important social functions and critical infrastructure, as well as generally accessible areas with dense human accumulation and limited mobility. In this context, I refer to past events in Western Europe in recent years. The combination of these relationships with few or no security measures makes the areas particularly vulnerable and places Oslo in a special position. It will be the Oslo Police Master who will determine at all times the number of patrols to be armed, based on the threat picture and other relevant sources, such as available intelligence information and risk and vulnerability analyses. On the basis of the police's assessments, I have reason to believe that armed use of some patrols will mean added value in relation to advanced storage in serious situations where the police's need for firearms arises acutely and without warning when they are outside the patrol car and thus cut off from the weapon, or when it takes a long time to retrieve the weapon from the storage box in the vehicle. Terrorism events in Western Europe in recent years have illustrated that the presence of armed police could be the only adequate measure to limit the level of damage and stop an ongoing attack. In the light of the assessments I have presented, I believe it is important that the police may have a presence with some armed patrols at the central part of Oslo Centre during the summer, in order to secure the large crowds that will often be in this area. In previous treatments in the arms industry, the government has confirmed that we will keep the Stortinget informed about the use of weapons. That's why I want to come to Stortinget today with information about the decision I have made. This case also raises questions as to whether there is a need for a legal provision regulating a narrow access to unlimited weapons in demarcated areas where point-arming will be relevant. In other words, the purpose of such an authorisation is to ensure the rational and appropriate disposal of police resources that may reduce the need for point-to-point weapons. I will therefore come back to Stortinget as soon as it is possible, with a proposal for a legal provision on this. This will give the Storting the opportunity to discuss arms thoroughly on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4076	The President, acting unanimously in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 45 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, proposes that a short comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group, and final statements from the Council of State. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4083	It is good and important that there is a great deal of pressure on the work to prevent and avert terror, even here at home, and even though we do not now have the same public attention around it as we did then. The network of the Prophet's Ummah was too full in public space, it is important that we are in readiness and have the ability to have continuous attention to this field. We know that there is now more work to be done in the hidden field with the recruitment of terrorists without advertising it in the same way as before. We know that there are repatriated IS warriors, and we know that there can be solo terrorists who are extremely difficult to discover and who can strike without notice. It is precisely this fact that there may be terrorists who the police can hardly know and follow, and who can strike with simple means like lightning from the clear sky, which now allows the Storting to allow time-limited armaments on vulnerable objects. Because of course, we will avoid the situation that the police have to run off the farm from where things happen, to pick up weapons if these kinds of extreme situations occur. So when the police now ask for armed patrols to be able to drive around in vulnerable object areas and the Minister of Justice will give temporary permission to do so, as he has authority to do, I think it is positive that he – although he has authority to decide for himself – comes here to the Stortinget and informs now before the summer. It is in line with the wishes of the Stortinget in connection with the last point-arming case, and it is also in line with the experience of the previous period, when there were some extensions of temporary weapons that created debate on the Stortinget – because the Stortinget was not involved. It is positive that the Council of State is taking the initiative in this respect. With regard to the argument about having armed patrols that can run around in very limited areas, at these vulnerable points, I know that the police indicate that there may be less need to have stationary crews at the individual points. If there are five vulnerable points between which the police are patrolling with an armed patrol, there will be less need for armed forces in the five locations. As a result, weapons will actually be less visible in the urban environment. I see that there are also the kind of practical arguments, which I think are the background to the police taking this initiative, as well as the terrorist assessment, the threat of terror, which the Minister of Justice told me about. It is also true that those who are stationed stationary at terrorist targets by vulnerable objects can be simple targets if you think of a possible terrorist situation, while if they patrol around a car in this area, they will have more opportunities to guard and intervene in a safer way, even for the police. So there are arguments for that model, the way to secure vulnerable points, which the police here ask for a warrant, and which the Council of State gives temporarily. As long as it's not about a general weaponry in larger areas, but some practical ways to solve this weapon temporarily by vulnerable objects, we don't have any more comments about it now, and thank you for the government's briefing to the Storting before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4106	I am very pleased that we have a Minister of Justice who takes action when required. The police response time will be shorter when they are armed, and now the threat situation suggests that this is necessary. We fully support the decision to arm selected patrols in Oslo this summer. We know that the police in London were able to limit the amount of terrorist attacks last year, because some patrols were actually armed. So it's going to be right over here. It is important to point out that only some patrols should be armed, and that the chief of police decides at all times how many this should apply. In recent years, several regulatory changes have been made to police and armed forces. The last decision we made last week, and it allowed for so-called point-arming. The background for the changes is that we wanted to facilitate a police force that is capable of responding quickly to sharp incidents, protecting our citizens and averting attacks. In 2013, the gun instructions were changed, so that the police could easily access the weapons stored in the car. So the threat picture changed in 2014. In November 2014, the police were temporarily armed in their daily service, only for three months. This authorisation was renewed eight times. Furthermore, in November 2017, the police at Oslo Airport were armed for three months, and they are still. Now, probably point-arming will apply on the Gardermo if it's not already in place. The decision today is not so much different from the one we saw in 2014. As I said, it's the police chief who's going to decide the number of patrols. There is no general armament, and I trust that the Norwegian police will handle this in a good way. We have one of the world's best trained and most highly trained police officers. With regular handling of weapons, the procedures will be better. The majority has asked the Council of State to inform us about the situation of arms, and he has done so here today in an excellent way. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4119	I would like to begin by thanking the Minister of Justice for the presentation. It is not to hide that this issue has been the subject of much debate in the Storting. The parties have different starting points in the debate on arms, but when the police, as in this case, even ask for an instrument on the basis that the description of modes of operation, the current threat assessment, has changed, there is reason to take it seriously. I also think it is neat – and correct – by the Minister of Justice to inform him that he will come back to the Grand Duchy with a proposal for a clearer basis for such an action, as there may be reason to believe that this action could be taken on time. Then, of course, the other parties will also have the opportunity to discuss this in detail in an appropriate way. Ensuring the safety of citizens is perhaps the main task of the authorities, and when the police themselves ask for some tools, it should weigh heavily. The Justice Committee was recently in London and was told that the London Police have armed patrol cars of great importance, not least in the terrorist attack on London Bridge on June 3rd last year. Just such a measure allowed the perpetrators to be out of play in a few minutes. Having this kind of action will provide the people of the capital with security that the police have the means they need to intervene in case something serious should happen at the Oslo Centre. We have seen that both airports, collective hubs, pedestrian streets and other popular places have been subjected to terrorist attacks around Europe in recent years. When we are one of the few countries in the world that do not have a general armed police force, it is important that we have measures at the vulnerable places both in Oslo and in the rest of Norway that allow the police to get to and put out of play quickly, so that we avoid the police running away from where things happen, to pick up the weapon, but instead can intervene quickly and make sure to avert these situations as quickly as possible. I would once again like to thank the Minister of Justice both for the statement and for giving consent to what the police have asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4132	When we are one of a few countries with a generally unarmed police force, it is crucial to have good arrangements to arm the police whenever necessary. The forward-looking storage system means that Norwegian police, despite the fact that they do not carry weapons on their hips daily, still have good access to weapons. The majority of the population, including us in the Center Party, have recently agreed that point-arming can be introduced by some vulnerable objects, often in practical buildings with large penetrations of people or buildings with high symbolic value. For us in the Central Party, it is important that the introduction of temporary weapons – both in the whole country when it is the case, and in parts of the country or in some parts of the city – is the basis of professional and not the bottom line of a need to show political action. For the increasing problems of recriminalism that we have been constantly receiving new reports, and which have been very remarkable in recent times, efforts that go far beyond the political line of markers need to be made. Intensive effort is needed over the years, with a clear emphasis on prevention to prevent recruitment and a clear emphasis on taking backers. Not least a visible, committed and targeted police force in the different communities and environments. I am not now claiming that the Minister of Justice's approval of temporary arms in parts of Oslo Centre is a way of trying to show the power of action. I have no intention of claiming that. The fact that the Minister of Justice meets a request from the police officer in the Oslo police district for temporary weapons, we simply need to take note and assume that it comes from a real need. However, there is still reason to ask: how does the Minister of Justice address the other real needs of the Oslo police districts to deal with the serious situation such as: have developed with repeat crime at Holmlia? Does he want to meet the needs that have been expressed by the police for more resources and better staff where needed most? Former Minister of Justice Listhaug has said that the police have held on to the seriousness of our situation, and she has also stated that during her time as the Council of State, she could not know better. To ABC News, she said: ‘I feel that some of the police have pushed down some of these problems and insisted that they have control.’ It is alarming that a government council admits that she has not been able to get enough information, and that she thinks it is the station itself that has tried for some reason to hide the problems. It will then be important to get answers about today's Minister of Justice to share the view of Listhaug that the police are driving problems down and hiding important information. It is also relevant to the issue of temporary arms which emerges from important information before decisions are taken. If Wara shares the opinion of Listhaug, the question becomes simple: What has he done, or what will he do himself, to ensure better information about the real situation than what former Minister of Justice Listhaug was able to obtain? I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for telling me something about it in his next article. Some of us big-time representatives have been fully aware that the work against organised crime in Oslo has been criticised by many people. Then it's strange that government councils haven't managed to capture the same thing. Maybe this has something to do with them looking for information only from the Police Directorate and not having enough contact with other important sources, which they add to the department and other relevant actors? The Minister of Justice announces that the temporary armament of some police patrols in the centre of Oslo is not something he sees ought to be temporary, and that he will therefore bring a case to the Grand Duchy to put in place a lawhouse for permanent armaments in some restricted areas. We will have a debate on this when the matter comes up, and when we look at how the temporary and space-limited weaponry has worked this summer. Finally, I would like to say that the Central Party appreciates that the Minister of Justice is taking care to provide the Storting with this information. We've clearly stated that we want to be briefed on how the dot weapons develop, and then it's good that the government sees the value of orientating the Greatness when he has now given consent to the temporary area-limited weaponry. Otherwise, I agree with many of the assessments made by the representative Jan Bøhler.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4156	Thank you very much to the Minister of Justice for coming and briefing the Storting just before the summer break. First of all, I must say that I am very pleased that it is not a matter of putting in weapons against the gangs at Holmlia. There were a lot of people in the press who wondered about it this afternoon. I was even happier when I was told that there is no real threat of terror we're talking about either – and that's exactly what's the point: there is no real threat of terror. SV is not against the police carrying weapons on their hips to protect us in different situations and contexts, but we make some specific demands on it. Armaments must be based on a concrete threat or on information about a threat. So it's not enough to refer to a general situation, for example. in France. The second condition is that the use of weapons should not be permanent. When the threat is over, the weapons are to be locked in again, and you're to go to normal, as we call forward-looking storage. These conditions are not present in this proposal. Here the Minister of Justice wants a temporary armament of police patrols in Oslo. He even warns that this could be a future solution. So we want to see weapons – heavier weapons, even, as a machine gun – on the body. It's a situation that we're very critical of, because it's not based on a concrete threat assessment. But as I said, come back to us with a concrete threat, or a message from the PST that something is going on, and we'll support this. This must also be seen in connection with what we dealt with last week. Then the police were given the opportunity to use the so-called "point weapon" on a permanent basis. Now we see a situation in which the police have been given the opportunity to use point weapons on a permanent basis, as well as more weapons of police patrols. So we see a situation that I'll call a sock introduction of permanent weapons. We're gradually moving more and more in that direction. When the audience in Oslo City Centre will meet the police in the future, they will mainly meet a police officer who is armed. When, in a few years' time, we ask the Oslo audience whether the police in Oslo are armed or not, they will say: Yes, of course they are armed, that's how we see it. This is contrary to the intention of the majority of the population. It's not a majority in the Grand Council to get us a armed police force. This Minister of Justice is gradually moving us in that direction. These are the same arguments against permanent weapons as against temporary weapons. It will change the relationship between the audience and the police, because the police will gradually use heavier powers. Tasks that were previously solved without weapons will now be solved with weapons to a greater extent. There will be more shooting and more damage. We see that from our neighboring country. It is also important to understand that the picture of crime in Norway is positive. Crime goes down. The PST also does not report an increase in the risk of terrorism. Why in the world are we going to have more weapons when there's less use for it? It points to the dangers of terrorism and to a variety of events in Europe. Yes, of course, the police are going to protect us against terror if we know about this, but it's not like a gun on a police officer's hip stops a bomb, or a truck going into a crowd, or a person going into a concert room with a machine gun. We have to have a slightly larger perspective on this. We're going to equip the police with weapons when necessary, but if that's not necessary, we're going to try as far as possible not to do so. The majority at Stortinget is critical of permanent armaments. Now we see a gradual, gradual development. The Progress Party is the party that has been most active in arming the police, and they are able to implement this gradually – gradually, step by step – in conflict with the intention of the majority of the population. Then I must also ask the Council of State how he has intended to get out of that temporaryity. Because it is not so easy – with the kind of argument that the Council of State has put forward today, it is not so easy for the Council of State to say in three months, in six months, in nine months, or in twelve months, that that situation has ceased. So the temporaryity we're hearing today can be very easily permanent.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4177	I will also give tribute to the Council of State for his coming to the Stortinget and informing them in this way. Weapons have been the subject of debate in this Chamber many times in recent years. That's good, because arming the police is about how to protect the police and, not least, our people in the best possible way. Armament is a key issue of value. What kind of communities do we want? And how can we, as legislators, protect our citizens and those who exercise the highest degree of power on our behalf? In Norway, we have a long and good tradition of a generally unarmed police force. This is still the case, despite the recent fact that the police have gained easier access to weapons through forward-looking storage, i.e. It's a weapon in the police cars. The police in general must remain unarmed. It also said an overall justice committee a week ago, in the settings of Prop. 70 L for 2017-2018, which opened for point-arming, which has been visited by others. The Christian People's Party stands for a restrictive stance on the armaments of the police. There are several reasons for this, including: because weapons-related research shows that one cannot demonstrate that weapons are essential for saving lives through terrorist attacks, and because – we believe – the civil character of the police is an important foundation in the exercise of power. This is also supported by the Government-appointed Armed Committee, which presented its report last year. The professional advice concluded that they would go against it. At the same time, we should not be naive. The use of weapons will be absolutely necessary in some cases – and not least crucial for saving lives. We are therefore too forward-looking for storage and have fought for easier command line commands to have weapons when needed. We therefore supported the proposal discussed by the Stortinget last week to introduce point-arming in vulnerable objects. The Armaments Committee used four broad principles when assessing the use of weapons by both of us as legislators, civil servants and the police as a whole: legality, necessity, proportionality and accountability. That, I believe, is fundamental principles, which should be central to our work. Among those who want the general armament of the police, it is often claimed that, although crime is essentially falling, organised crime has increased, including in particular the threat of terrorism. That means the police must be armed. However, I believe that this is an error, which also concludes the mentioned Armaments Committee. They believe that there are no features in the crime scene that can justify the general involvement of the police. Nor do researchers at the Forvaret Research Institute believe this, for example. Hegghammer. He has demonstrated through research — after a dozen terrorist attacks — that the armed street police have not stopped terror in Europe. The conclusion was inter alia: that object protection – or point armament with particularly vulnerable dimensions – was rather a more dangerous road, as he recommended, precisely what the Stortinget went into last week. It is clear that the armed police can prevent secondary attacks in the event of a terrorist attack, but that is what we have today, precisely by the fact that there is an advance storage of weapons in the police cars. I take the statement from the Minister of Justice for information. At the same time, I am surprised that it only comes a week after the Stortinge discussed the matter. That's why I want to challenge him on: what's new? In the proposition underpinning the decision a week ago, the government pointed out that a specific object was required – and not urban areas or cities. What's changed in a week? It's close to thinking that it could be economics that do it. Instead of having point weapons at many places, it is cheaper to let a car drive. In any case, I believe that it must be clear to Stortinget when making assessments related to this. And why doesn't the Council of State set a specific number for how many cars can have weapons? I noticed that he used the formulation: some patrol cars. I would also like to hear the Council of State reply. I am grateful for the presentation. I think it is important and right that he comes to the Stortinget. As I said, the Christian People's Party does not want general armaments, we have agreed to point-arming. I am not enthusiastic about what the Council of State is doing now, but it speaks to the benefit of the Council of State that the Police Directorate – I register – has asked him to give this permission, that the technical advice is to give it. And that's why I look forward – as I read the Council of State – to a case of my own. As the representative Eide also pointed out: this may not be temporary, but is intended to be permanent, which is important for the Stortinget to discuss, because it goes beyond the powers that I believe the Council of State has.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4196	I would like to thank you for the good and reflected contributions from the representatives who have been up. Let me link a few comments to that. What I'm telling you is really two things. One is that I give temporary permission to arm some patrols. I have given that today, and I am briefing the Storting today because the government has announced that we will keep the Storting close and well informed about it. It is quite right, as it is pointed out, that this is not a counter-crime measure. There are assessments and measures that I will come back to on another occasion. I think it is a good reflection around this with temporaryity, because it is obvious – as the situation is now, and I grant a permit temporarily – that I also see it can be natural to have to renew that permit. The government then believes that it is the cleanest thing to create a legal base for unlimited weapons – instead of constantly renewing it – to come to Stortinget and get a proper debate on it. So there are two things: one is to tell you that I have given a permit, and the other is to say that I come back to the Storting to discuss further the terms «temporary» and «temporary weaponry». I want to come back with my own proposition to Stortinget. Then Stortinget will have a good opportunity to take part in a debate on both the long-term and the principal conditions around it. This is a challenging situation, and there is no desirable situation for anyone to have such a threat in front of them. It is true, as was pointed out, that this in itself does not stop terrorism, but it limits the extent of the damage. There are experiences from other countries and the situation out there that make us think this is right. I look forward to discussing this further. In line with what we have promised the Stortinget in the past, we will keep the Stortinget well informed about the weapons, the scale and the development, and we will also invite the Stortinget to discuss this through its own proposition as soon as the department has developed it and sent it to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4212	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox The President will propose that the Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration report on the temporary armament of some police patrols be annexed to the Oslo Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4226	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4235	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 3 and 4, from the Bears of the Moxnes, on behalf of the Red There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The discount agrees to the following remunerations being determined with effect from 1 May 2018: -Big rate representatives: SEK 775 064 per year [[equal to the proposed level for members of the Government]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4262	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. In the course of the debate, the proposal was amended to read as follows: ‘The amount of the allowance shall be terminated by the Wage and Wage Commission.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4281	It is to be votted over publishing house No. 2 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decrease agrees to keep allowances to depositors and government members unchanged for the next three years.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4298	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The amount consents, with effect from 1 May 2018, to the remuneration of the grossing-up representatives, members of the Government and the Prime Minister for the corresponding change to an old-age pensioner with an average national social security pension as a result of the year’s social security settlement. On this basis, the crown supplement is set at NOK 6 297 and gives the following compensations: Deposit representatives: DKK 934 899 per year Government members: DKK 1331 655 per year Prime Minister: DKK 1 637 643 per year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4370	The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4439	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4455	During the debate, Nils T. Bjørke put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 9a of the Rules of Procedure of the EEA Joint Committee shall be replaced by the following: The Presidency shall discuss administrative matters of particular importance with the leaders of the party groups in the Management Committee before taking decisions. The Administrative Committee shall consist of the Presidency and the Chairs of the Party Groups. The Vice-Chairs of the Party Groups shall be alternates of the leaders of the Party Groups. If one third of the members of the Administrative Committee so require, an administrative case shall be brought before the Stortinget.’;» The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4474	The Presidency had set the Storting to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4556	The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4570	During the debate, Lars Haltbrecken put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Presidency, by the beginning of the autumn session on 28 September 2018, to introduce payment parking in Stortingen’s garage, with payment exemptions for persons who, for security reasons or due to disabilities, have to use a car, and to ensure that a zero-emission vehicle pays a maximum of half the price of what fossil cars are to pay.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4594	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4610	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Torgeira Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 to 3, from SV. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Rules of Procedure on the register of the duties and financial interests of the depositors shall be amended as follows: new Section 9(a) shall be replaced by the following: Section 9(a) Debt in business activities more than 2 times the basic amount of public debt and guarantee liability more than 2 times the basic amount of public security for which the representative is personally liable. This does not include liabilities or guarantee liabilities of a limited liability company in which the representative holds interests. The name of the creditor, the name of the creditor, if any, in relation to the guarantee or guarantee relationship and the nature of the liability shall be stated.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Rules of Procedure on the register of the duties and financial interests of the depositors shall be amended as follows: Section 15 shall be replaced by the following: Section 15 If a representative considers that he has interests of a particular personal or financial nature which have a legitimate interest in the general public but are not subject to registration after chapters. II, such information must also be recorded. Current Section 15 becomes new Section 16.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Board of Governors requests the Presidency to submit proposals to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Storting to ensure that information as referred to in new Section 15 must also be disclosed in the suspension of matters affecting the conflict of interest, in order to enable the reader to easily understand any conflict of interest’. [[e]] The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4668	It's going to wrestle over you. Red has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4684	It shall be counted against II.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4698	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 4, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5-9, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 8. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to work to establish a national animal welfare mark with specified quality criteria, which can be used for Norwegian agricultural products produced with particularly high animal welfare standards.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4731	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-7 and 9 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The budget asks the Government in the offer of the agricultural settlement for 2019 to submit proposals to remove the control fee for organic production in order to reduce red tape and strengthen the profitability of organic farming.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government in the offer of the agricultural settlement for 2019 to submit proposals to remove the base deduction for support and subsidies to agricultural holdings in order to strengthen the economy of the smallest uses.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government requests reasonable access to local feed resources as a condition for receiving support for large initial investments in operational infrastructure to stimulate reduced feed imports and a use structure in accordance with the local resource base.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals in its 2019 agricultural settlement offer on a subsidy profile that significantly prioritises: - Organic farming - Use with a particularly high level of animal welfare - Local resource use, grazing and low consumption of feed - Increased vegetable production rather than increased meat production. - Better profitability for small and medium-sized uses across the country - Gradual re-establishment of the upper limits of subsidies lifted in agricultural production in 2014 ’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4765	There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a target to increase the self-sufficiency rate to 50 per cent corrected for imported electricity and, in the next agricultural settlement, propose measures to achieve the target.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4782	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a new eco-strategy in the context of the State budget for 2019, which corresponds to the Stortinget’s order from the processing of agricultural holdings, with sectoral objectives and concrete progress plan.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4799	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 4 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government of the State budget for 2019 is asked to provide statistics on imports of organic food and consumption of Norwegian organic food in Norway.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and provide a possible model for a climate fund for agriculture in the context of the state budget for 2019.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e4824	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5081	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5269	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1–5, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for Hydro to present a more ambitious plan for compensation to those affected by the accident at the Hydros Alumorte plant in Brazil.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for Hydro to present a much more ambitious plan for the sustainable development of the region in which the company operates and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for Hydro to bring back parts of the billions it has earned in Alumorte, thanks to large tax relief and subsidised electricity, to the rainforest and communities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for Hydro la representatives of local communities and local staff to be represented in subsidiaries in regions where the company operates.’; Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5305	There is a vote on proposal No. 5. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for increased efforts to increase the security and legal certainty of human rights and environmental activists in rainforest areas.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5339	The vote will take place at the next voting time on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 236 S for 2017-2018, from Audun Lysbakken and Björn Moxnes. The proposal reads as follows: The Storting asks the government to report as quickly as possible to the Stortinget on the conditions for connecting US military sensors to Space Norway's satellites. The government is asking the government to instruct Space Norway to engage in negotiations on the realisation of a project to establish satellite broadband communications capacity in the upmarket areas until a statement on the issue has been addressed in the Stortinget. The government is asking the Government to make conditional commitments to Space Norway AS on equity that satellites are not associated with equipment that can be used for other countries’ nuclear weapons systems. The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5366	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the planned privatisation of the operation and maintenance of the Eastfold Railway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring forward a case for Storting before any future planned privatisations of operation and maintenance on the railway are carried out.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a full overview of the cost of the government’s railway reform so far, and what is planned to be used further, and to provide information on this matter’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5402	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5418	During the debate, Sverre Myrli put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all employees are assured of an activity transfer if new operators make tenders and take over the train traffic in some of the announced or planned rail traffic packages.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5442	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5454	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5459	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5464	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5480	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2 and 4, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Tore Storehaug on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the continuation of Fenernes Airport Leirin as State owned operating aerodrome attributed to Avinor until other operating companies are established.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5507	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked by the government through the public agency to contribute to the realisation of a zero-emission boat route in Oslofjord in cooperation with the county municipalities concerned.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5524	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government as soon as practicable to complete the plans for Route 23 on the whole route between Dagslett and E18. Further planning must be based on cross-political decisions taken by the municipality of Lier, the so-called Viking alternative with a long tunnel, and so-called planning time can be significantly reduced.» The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5541	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the technical and operational status of Ferneren airport Leirin remains unchanged and is maintained at the current level for up to three years after the airport is closed and until local interests are in a position to take over, so that the acquisition and reopening of the airport under the control of a local operator is not compromised.’;» The Right, the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left and the Left have announced their support for the proposal. The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5560	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5565	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5617	During the debate Else-May Botten put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Greens' Greens' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to update the mandate of Gassnova SF in order to clarify the company’s role in the organisation of future commercial, large-scale CO 2 transport and storage on Norwegian base. The updated mandate should facilitate the organisation of the provision of CO 2 transport and storage services to foreign operators.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5672	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5684	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-14.ana.ud423e5698	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President will remind you that tomorrow's meeting will begin at noon. 9th@item: inlistbox Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
