ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e28	The called alternate of the More and Romsdal counties, Tove-Lise Torve, now takes the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Socialist Left Party Group to the representative Petter Eide from 7 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Olivia Corso Salles, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e53	Olivia Corso Salles is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e69	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State of Jon Georg Dale, Nikolai Astrup and Kjell-Børge Freiberg will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e78	I have a question for the Minister of Transport – I see he's in the starting pit. Earlier in the fall, the government chose to award the contract for passenger services on the southern runway to the British company Go-Ahead — a highly controversial company and, in many places in the United Kingdom, a very unpopular company among train passengers. The state's own company, NSB, is cut and built down, while dubious foreign companies are welcomed by the government on Norwegian rails. Yes, even the Times have brought this with them and ridiculed the Norwegian railway policy and the award to Go-Ahead, which they don't have much to say about. And the Sørlandsbanen is just the start – or the South train, it must be called now. There are, as it were, no limits to rail policy at present. Thereafter, the traffic on the Nordlandsbanen, Dovrebanen, Saltenpendel, Trønderbanen, Raumabanen, Meråkerbanen and Rørosbanen shall be offered and subsequently also all other train services in Norway. I assume that the railway authorities and the Ministry of Transport have put themselves well into what kind of company Go-Ahead is. My question to the Minister of Transport is: Why is Go-Ahead such an unpopular train company in the United Kingdom, and how should the company succeed in Norway when it obviously does not do so in the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e89	The answer to that I think I could have done very easily. The reason for their success in Norway is that they have to fulfil their obligations to offer. It's still the state that owns the infrastructure, and we still own the train sets they're going to run. We buy the offer, and we regulate how to perform the service, through the offer that has now been out. This means that I am sure that once the Directorate of Railways has awarded contracts to Go-Ahead, they have done so on the basis that they have a quality assurance that Go-Ahead is able to deliver the service that they are required to do according to the offer document. It's a pleasure when the Labour Party is now very upset that we're getting new actors in. Just because we actually got a new competitor into the NSB, they've almost halved their own price offer to operate the Southland Railway. It shows for all practical purposes that competition works. The Labour Party has always refused. Now it turns out once again that it actually gives effect. And not only that: I can also clarify, in addition to what is the main question from the representative, that the path will still be called the Sørlandsbanen – to the extent that it should be a big issue. But the company is allowed to operate under the name they want on the trains they run. I was hoping that the Labour Party could also enjoy that we're actually saving $3. kr the next 10 years - 3 billion. kr, which we can use to strengthen the train supply, not just on the Sørlandsbanen or on the Jærbanen, but on the train services of all places in this country. In addition, we have now seen that through the cooperation that Go-Ahead is going to have with Columbus, a well-established company in Norway, perhaps a both to deliver at a better price and also to have a targeted strategy to get more people to take the train. I actually thought the Storting was busy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e98	I think I would have been a little careful to use the concept of "pleasure" when I see what happens on the railway by day, but we can get back to that. So the government has spent billions on the so-called railway reform. A lot of new units, companies and companies have been created – a huge administrative apparatus. This costs money – a lot of money! But we never hear the Minister for Transport talk about that. But at the end of the state budget, there is an overview of what all the new directors on the railway – and there are many of them – serve. It turns out that the head of Bane NOR makes 2.7 million. kr per year. The head of the Norwegian train makes $2 million. kr. The Mantena Manager – the people who maintain the trains – makes 2.1 million. kr. And the head of Entur – the ticket company – makes $1.9 million. kr. Does the Minister for Transport consider this to be a reasonable use of Community funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e107	I record that those who run the NSB tend – which is more than twice as much as those in the other companies – are apparently not occupied by the Labour Party. I just notice that. I mean, the government's rents are going to have a growth that's responsible, which means we're recruiting sensible and relevant tenants to state companies. At the same time, we're dependent on having rent wages that most people understand. This means that we have to keep track of the wage growth of the state companies for years to come. It's quite right that we've spent some money on migration in the railway reform. I'm not ashamed of it. I'm happy about that. Because using the means of conversion we've done, we've both been given a new organisation – which we're now looking at the first package of offers already yields – and we've managed to manage a process of conversion, so that we can, for example, do it. in many cases, funds have been used to manage the pension obligations that they would otherwise not have received. That's a reasonable use of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e116	There will be follow-up questions – first Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e121	I mentioned the new companies, and the NSB is, to the orientation of the Minister of Transport, not a new company, it's over 150 years old. But we can go from the well paid directors to the employees who do the job out there on the floor, or rather on the train. The Minister of Transport has previously said that the employees to be transferred from NSB to Go-Ahead get exactly the same pay and pension conditions in Go-Ahead that they have today – I think he even used that term. It's a truth with a lot of modifications, because the rules are that you get what you have, until the next paycheck. Go-Ahead takes over in December 2019, and the next salary settlement is April 1, 2020. So employees keep what they have for four months. My question to the Minister for Transport is: Can he now be as clear as before, and can he promise railway employees that they will maintain the pay and pension conditions after the four months?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e130	Governments don't negotiate paychecks, that's what the social partners do. I'm quite satisfied with that. That means that what we're saying in the offer that's now out there is that it's going to be a corresponding business transfer to the new company that's going to operate the track. This means that the working conditions you have, the pay conditions you have and the pension conditions you have are included in the new company. It is true that one has annual pay terms because the social partners negotiate pay and work conditions. How it develops in this company, we do not know, but we know that we have clear rules on how we regulate pay in Norwegian working life, and I expect and expect that all new players will also stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e137	Arne Nävra – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e142	I don't think it's my rather short speed here in the hall that makes me not understand everything in this railway reform. Why has the government and the Council of State not learned anything from the experience of Sweden and England in the context of competitive outsourcing? I understood that the quality of passengers should be one of the most important aspects of railway reform. So it turns out that permission is given to Go-Ahead, that they're going to drive on the South Coast. It turns out that SJ comes up with a complaint. But before it has been dealt with, before giving the complaint a chance – a complaint that goes on that quality is not given enough weight, it is only the price that is emphasised – a contract is concluded with Go-Ahead. Can the Councils comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e150	I assume that the Railway Directorate, which is responsible for contracting, also treats the complaints properly and seriously. The opposition would like to present Go-Ahead as a peripheral company with little satisfied customers. Go-Ahead has a billion customers this year. It's a big company that has won a contract in Norway, based on quality weighted 60 pst, and that price weighted 40 pst. They have won the offer, including: because they believe they can get more passengers to choose the railway than competitors believed, through close cooperation with Columbus. Then the question is, Wouldn't it be natural for one to see the effects of this before one intended for the company not to be able to provide the services? After all, we're saving 3 billion. kr over the next few years to do so. The opposition would like to continue to ask about this, but it is strange that one does not have greater confidence in actors who despite all the cargo quite a lot of passengers around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e155	Arne Nävra – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e160	I thank you for the answer, but I have to say that I find it strange that the Council of State will use such an important infrastructure as the railway for some kind of test drive to see if this works. I know there have been some tests with garbage handling. I don't know if the government can remember how the quality was given weight? Then we learn that we too – of course – have to compete northwards. We are told that quality should be given even less weight. There have been signs that there is to be price even more than for the Sørlandsbanen. Why in the world is the Council of State going that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e165	The offer packages on the remaining lines are still not ready. This means that the final assessments for it are not done either. At the same time, it's the Railway Directorate that lights up supply, and it's the ones that award supplies. I am busy that we have quality on the Norwegian railway. We in Norway ensure that we, the state, own the infrastructure. We own trainsets. We are responsible for operation and maintenance, and we buy train services. What is left to private operators, including the NSB, is to compete for the operation of the train sections. One can look at the experience from the last time we had an offer, on the Gjøvik track, as NSB water, and that has after all made us both save money and give a good offer on the Gjøvik track for very many years. The competition is sharp. It also shows this bidding round.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e172	Bengt Fasterøne – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e177	We in the Central Party are, as the Council of State probably knows, very critical of this whole tendering process and that the NSB should be thrown out of this section of the train. For the Centre Party, it is important to use the public tenders to strengthen Norwegian business and to expand Norwegian jobs. So now the government has sent this project – and the money – out of the country. However, the core of the debate on Railway Package IV is who will decide on Norwegian railway policy and ensure railway safety in the future. We know that there can often be doubt and division related to political choices, and then it is important that we, as elected representatives, have the freedom to make other choices and look at experiences in the future. The Council of State has tried to hide behind the fact that Norwegian supervisory authorities continue to exercise control and supervision over Norwegian railways, but it is the European Railway Agency that will issue a safety certificate for companies that will be able to run in Norway in the future. Then the company – whether it is Go-Ahead or others – will complain, and then neither Norwegian supervisory authorities, the Council of State nor Norwegian elected representatives are running this complaint. It is the European Court of Justice. Does the Council of State consider this to be a good way to ensure railway safety in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e186	It's quite right: I'm definitely not surprised that the Center Party is against everything that's new. We have a long experience of the Centerpartiet – this too. But when you go in and actually do an analysis of the EU's fourth railway package, you might wonder what made the centre party implement earlier railway packages when they were in government. I'm not going to do that. There are two issues that have been at the heart of the resistance to the fourth railway package. One is that a leftover supervision and control to non-Norwegian authorities, and the other is competition. Firstly, the supervision and control of the railway package IV — if implemented — is entrusted to the Railway Authority, as it is today. That's clear. So that's the question of competition: I think that the situation we now have, after the railway reform, would ensure that we also implement this, unless one is fundamentally pessimistic and skeptical to competition – then one could of course have a different starting point. But I don't think that's the exact basis for that based on the railway package.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e197	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e202	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. In the spring we had an ACER debate, and in the wake of it there was a debate on new export cables for electricity, not least the private NorthConnect – a private export cable that is now under concession treatment, which will break with what has been the basis of Norwegian energy policy until now, namely that the public should be responsible for the expansion and principle has been that Statnet should have systemic responsibility and mainly develop, own and operate the central network. In the summer, it became clear that Statnett had a number of objections in its letter of consultation against the establishment of NorthConnect. Among other things, Statnett pointed out that it is rational to postpone the measure until a better knowledge of the impact on the Nordic power system is gained, in-service experience from the ongoing capacity expansion and, in particular, greater security of profitability. Statnet also stresses that it is unclear which actor NorthConnect should be connected to on the British side. In addition, Statnett considers that a private export cable will generate higher loss costs in the Norwegian network than the concession request shows, as well as contribute to reducing the profitability of existing international connections – which are otherwise largely political. I'm not going to wonder who has to cover that profitability. The question is: why does the government think it is more important to build this cable than to take a breath on the ground, listen to the department and suspend the concession treatment until – as it is called in the agreement between the government and the Workers' Party – experience has been gained and thorough analysis of already existing capacity has been carried out before considering the establishment of new ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e213	First of all, trade with the rest of the world, whether in fish, oil and gas or industrial products, has given us good income through exports and secured us goods and services through imports. Similarly, foreign trade in electricity has ensured good security of supply for energy in Norway and export revenue. Power cables to the rest of the world facilitate more imports of power during periods of low intensity in the Norwegian hydropower system. We have this special experience this year. The exchange of power also dampens the price fluctuations over the year, and between the years, in the Norwegian energy supply. We want a good balance between the development of new power generation and new transmission links to the rest of the world. The government is also concerned about the mainland industry and their conditions and that we want to make greater use of the force. At the same time, we ensure that the basis for investment in the power supply will not be weakened. So to the NorthConnect concession application that is now being dealt with in the NVE: when the NVE has gone through this case, they will give their assessment of the application to the Oil and Energy Ministry before the matter is dealt with in the Department. What I as the Council of State can say is that the government is going to follow the decision of the Storting and deal with NorthConnect's application in line with the legislation and the leaders that the Stortinget has put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e222	I hear you're talking about balance. Statnett warns against the profitability of this, and it does mean that you will see experience of the balance that we already have on the export cables we have. The actors behind the export cable NorthConnect are producers of electricity, and there will be something completely new if they get the concession to build an export cable for energy. After all, it will be like having the goat fit the oat sack, where producers not only sell and produce electricity, but also develop, build and operate a crucial part of the central network. It's something completely new. State networks have, as mentioned, had a number of objections, but according to the agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, if built, the cable is to be transferred to the public when it is finished. What is the logic of concessionalising a private export cable to which the system coordinator Statnet is skeptical and to which the same system coordinator is said to have to take over and operate when it is finished?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e230	In the examination of the third energy market package, the bulk of the bulk of the population argued that the ministry is preparing the application from NorthConnect before a legislative amendment is promoted, that it should in future be Statnet which operates and owns all Norwegian international connections. And as I said, the government will follow the decision of the Storting, and we'll deal with NorthConnect's application in line with the legislation we're going to have to deal with, and the leaders that the Storting has put in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e237	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e242	So we're talking about a giant cable to export power out of Norway. According to the cable concession request, this will give more expensive power to people in Norway, and it will give more expensive power to the industry in Norway. My question is: why will the Progress Party and the government give people and industry in Norway more expensive power?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e249	The government is concerned with a secure and secure power supply at the lowest possible cost. I refer to the answer I gave to the main question: the government will follow up the decision of the Storting. We are going to deal with NorthConnect's application in line with the legislation it is to be dealt with after, and in line with the leaders that Stortinget has given.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e254	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e259	When the process is to continue, as the Council of State confirms today, it means that one may come into the paradoxical situation that State networks are forced to take over the operation of a cable that they now warn against expanding. It will be a rather demanding situation, I think. The reason Statnett warns is precisely the socio-economic aspects of it, not least that the cable can help reduce the profitability of existing inter-national connections and that it can generate higher loss costs in the Norwegian network. The question is simply: why does the government not take seriously the objections and warnings about the construction of this cable?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e266	The NorthConnect concession request is now being addressed in the NVE. When the NVE has gone through the matter, they will give their assessment to the Ministry of Oil and Energy before we do the treatment. I refer to the answer I gave to the main question: the government is going to follow up on the Storting decision, and we are going to deal with NorthConnect's application in line with the legislation that this application is to be assessed on, and the leaders that the Stortinget has submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e271	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e276	My question also goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has warned us most strongly about the consequences of climate change this autumn. But fortunately not only that, they have also told us that we can avoid the worst consequences, but then the world's emissions must be halved by 2030. Somewhere emissions have increased sharply in Norway in the last 30 years, while oil and gas activities have increased. In this area, emissions will have to fall sharply if we are to cope with our part of global climate change. On 12 June 2014, the Stortinget adopted a unanimous decision to use force from land to meet the power requirements of Johan Sverdrup, Gina Krog, Edvard Grieg and Ivar Aasen. The store also agreed that this would happen by 2022 at the latest. Earlier in the fall, the Council of State got the plans for building step 2 at Johan Sverdrup on its table. My question is: can the Council of State confirm that the entire power needs of Edvard Grieg will be met by force from land, and that an implementation plan on how this should be done in line with the decision of the Stortinge is in line with the plans of the Council of State in the past harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e289	First of all, climate challenges are global, and they must also be addressed globally. The Paris Agreement obliges the parties to keep global warming well below 2 degrees and down to 1.5 degrees. In our contribution to the Paris Agreement, we concluded that we should achieve the climate objectives, while at the same time having a strong and competitive petroleum activity. Around 170,000 people have their daily activities in this industry. Furthermore, the industry has contributed about 14 000 billion. kr since industry started. This industry is undoubtedly our deciduous largest and most important industry. Just because of its position in employment and value creation, and because of the ambitions of the Paris Agreement, industry and politicians have a great responsibility. Climate action will have consequences for Norwegian petroleum activities both by increasing the price of emissions when the quota system is tightened up and because the agreement may lead to a change in the demand for fossil energy sources in the long term. The size has taken decisions and has been concerned about this, including: as regards the development of Johan Sverdrup. What I can confirm as a state councillor is that when the proposition is presented to Stortinget, Stortinget's leadership in electrification of Johan Sverdrup will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e300	I don't feel that I got an answer to the question, when it was Edvard Grieg I asked about. On 4 June, Mr Søviknes, Minister for Oil and Energy, came with an answer to a question from Mr Tore Storehaug. The question was whether the Council of State was aware of something that meant that the decision of the Stortingen that Edvard Grieg should come into force from land by 2022 at the latest could not be met and whether the Council of State could ensure that both gas turbines on the Edvard Grieg platform were closed as soon as the platform came into force from land. In his reply, Søviknes wrote, among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. ‘The operator states that, for project implementation reasons, it is not appropriate to take decisions relating to the coverage of the Greek device’s heat demand from 2022 until 2020.’;» Does the reply from the former Minister for Oil and Energy mean that there is no binding plan to close down the two gas power stations at Edvard Grieg by 2022 and that this is not within the PUD which the Council of State received earlier in the harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e315	What I as the Council of State can report back is that when the proposition and the PUD arrive, you will follow up the Storting decision related to the issue of electrification of Norwegian base, as well as that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e320	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e325	Does this mean, then, that the Council of State can now guarantee that Edvard Grieg will be electrified with power from land, and that both gas turbines that are there will be shut down in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e330	This means that when the PUD and the landfill proposal arrive at the Stortinget, they will contain and respond to the decisions taken by the Stortinget regarding this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e335	There will be follow-up questions – first Lars Haltbrecken.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e340	I feel that I get a very elusive answer to the question. It is said that what the Stortninget has decided will be answered. But what I'm asking is guarantees that both the Edvard Grieg gas turbines will be shut down and large emissions will be cut. In a response to me on October 9th this year, the Council of State says that the area resolution forcefully from the Utsira land covers all four platforms in this area, unless, he writes, other platforms such as Sleipner and Gudrun also connect. But petroleum field power requirements are not constant over time. Can the Council of State guarantee that there is no room for both the four platforms and the Utsira formation plus a connection to the Tampen platforms in the planned Utsira area solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e347	What I as the Council of State can guarantee is that the leaders of Stortinget have submitted regarding the electrification of this project, will be followed up in the proposition and in the PUD that will deal with this project when it comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e352	Tore Storhaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e357	In the rounds of questions, with questions from the representative Lars Haltbrecken, me and several other representatives who are engaged in full-electrication also by Edvard Grieg, as stated by the Stortinget, it has emerged that much of this debate is about the heat demand, and there is an open question of whether one will shut down both gas turbines that stand there today. Now I believe that the Council of State refers to the fact that the decisions taken by the Storting are to be implemented. He's repeated it a couple of times now. Does the Council of State mean that the guided tours of Stortinget will cause both gas turbines to be shut down, or does he think that the guided tours of Stortinget will mean that they will not be shut down?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e362	I have no other answer to the representative than what I have already said. It is my responsibility that Stortinget's leadership in this project is followed up in the matter that comes to Stortinget, which concerns Johan Sverdrup and the area solution to which it is referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e367	The President would like to know that the PUD stands for the plan of expansion and operation, if there were others who would be unsure of what that abbreviation stands for. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e375	I continued on the line that the representative Lars Haltbrecken did, with just raising the special report from the United Nations Climate Panel, which was presented a month or so ago, on the day when the state budget was delivered to Stortinget. The report states that we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40-50 pst. by 2030 to be close to avoiding global warming above 1.5 degrees. But what's really new with this report is that the United Nations Climate Panel for the first time tells what the impact of a global warming of 1.5 degrees could be. One of the alarming descriptions here is: on food production in the world and the possibility of access to clean water. That is why my question goes to the Minister for Development. There are already millions of people today who are starving or suffering from malnutrition and misnutrition. This is an area where the world has unfortunately gone in the wrong direction. According to the UN, 815 million people were undernourished in 2016. There's almost 40 million more than in 2015. As a result, aid for increased food security and climate change adaptation is very important. The increase in the draft government budget in this field is gratifying, but in my opinion it is not sufficient. The government has announced an action plan for food security towards the end of the year. My question is: When will he be ready, and can the Council of State promise that the action plan will provide a significant boost to aid for sustainable and climate-friendly agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e384	Thank you for the question. We have promised an action plan towards the end of the year. There is a lot to happen before the New Year rockets are fired up – in so many ways – but I intend to deliver according to the schedule we have announced. It is an incredibly important theme the representative travels. There is no doubt that climate change contributes to challenging food production in some of the world’s most vulnerable and poorer countries. That is why we need a comprehensive effort, where we look at sustainable food systems that can cope with the climate change that is already here. Then, of course, we must also contribute to the reduction of emissions and not to the increase of the problem. But the reality is that today we see changes and that climate change also contributes to more people being pushed into poverty. The UN estimates that about 24 million people are being pushed into poverty every year, as a result of both climate and natural disasters.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e393	I thank you for your answer. We know that 155 million children under the age of five are the framework of growth inhibition and underdevelopment as a result of food shortages. Nearly half of the deaths among children under the age of five are related to hunger. In addition, enough and nutritious food is an ingredient both for good health and for the ability to learn. Insecurity associated with food is also a source of unrest and conflict in the world and an important reason for increasing migration. At the same time, we know that investment in climate-friendly agriculture is very effective, and an effective instrument for poverty reduction. There is a need to set clear new objectives here, too, in line with the climate challenge we see. Will Norway take on precisely that role and set clearer and new objectives in this field, and will a priority this field be higher in our own budget ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e398	I think it is important that we see the commitment to climate-friendly agriculture as part of our other aid policy. These areas are interrelated, as the representative's questions illustrate in a very good way. If we're going to do something about agriculture, we also need to look at education, we need to contribute to job creation, and we need to see the whole value chain related to the food system. This is an important area of Norwegian development policy, and it will be an important area – an even more important area – in the coming period. We have established strategic cooperation with different organisations, such as: EAT, just to put food and the importance of food at the heart of what we're doing. And when it comes to the health effort, which is a very important part of Norwegian development policy, there is no doubt that food is crucial to reducing child growth inhibition, which is a major challenge in many countries around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e403	There will be follow-up questions – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e408	I want to follow up what the council says here, because I believe that the need for knowledge and transfer of competences is actually greater than money in itself. Among other things, therefore, the Christian People's Party also has a desire for the establishment of the Knowledge Bank in Norad. We have also called for agriculture and development to be a priority within the Knowledge Bank. There is a demand for Norwegian competence. Agriculture today is the main income for 40 to 65 pst. by the population of Africa. So my question is, because the Council of State raises this with knowledge: will the Council of State contribute to the strengthening of the agricultural part of the Knowledge Bank, and that pre-agricultural job creation in order to achieve food security and income growth is prioritised in Norwegian aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e413	We established the Knowledge Bank in March, and I am very happy about that. It is an incredibly important part of Norwegian development policy, and I have great faith in the capacity building and transfer of competences that the Knowledge Bank involves. Then we have set up a number of new programmes within the Knowledge Bank – the last in the series is Digitalisation for Development. We do not currently have a plan to create a new agricultural and development programme, but I take with me the input from the representative Hareide. So I agree that it's not just about money, but it's important to stress that we're also spending a lot of money on these things. In 2017, I guess we spent two billion. on food security and agriculture measures, and for 2019 we are also planning to use significant funds in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e420	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e425	I was so happy when I heard the representative Hareide and the Christian People's Party addressing this topic. This is a theme the Centre Party has raised – and has tried to raise – in every budget round. We have submitted offensive messages, and at all times we have received support from the Christian People's Party, but unfortunately not from the government party, so it may well also show a theme where the Christian People's Party and the government of today are not completely run together. The World Bank has made it clear that investments that attract small farmers in agriculture produce at least twice the impact of other assistance, with a view to bringing the country out of poverty. In the poorest countries, the effect is four times greater. Then the question is, with regard to the means and the billions: how does Norway measure that we reach the yield target no. 1 and yield target No 2, about poverty and poverty, and what are the indicators that Norway's contribution leads us to achieve them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e432	There is no doubt that achieving sustainability objective No. 2, which is zero hunger, is an incredibly important goal. Today, more than 800 million people in the world are starving. It is linked to both vulnerable food systems and inefficient agriculture in very many countries. That is why this is an important area for us, and it will continue to be an important area for us even when it comes to budgetary priorities. So it's important that we don't look at this in terms of silos – cereal silos, to use that image – but on the contrary, we consider how we can integrate the investment in agriculture and food in our other areas of activity, in both health, education and, not least, industrial development, where agriculture is an important part, because it employs an enormous number of people, not least on the African continent.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e439	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e445	I thank you for the answer, but it was certainly not an answer to what I asked for. There were a lot of words, which were a little bit up in a cloud, and very nice words. But back to the question, and that question is pretty important, because if you're going to follow what the Council of State has now said, it sounds like we're going to get a bigger bet here, and then it's important to know how we measure that bet: What are the indicators used by the Council of State and the government so that Norway with its contributions can achieve these goals? That's what the question was, and I hope I can get a little more specific answer to that than what I got in the first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e450	The indicators are in Prop. 1 S for 2018–2019. I guess the representative has read Prop. 1 S for 2018–2019, and she will find the answer there. We are concerned that we should have good measurement indicators for all areas of activity we have in development policy, and that also applies in this area. In the past, it has probably been such that we have spread too thinly in development policy and also had unclear indicators, so that it has been difficult to follow developments. I think we have to do something about that, and that's not just true in this area, it's true in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e457	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e462	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Climate change is now on everyone's lips, and the Greens are very happy to see that the parties are competing for green policy. If we are to believe the Christian People's Party Youth Party, the Christian People's Party's Blue Way Choice is the greenest government option. Blue and yellow give as well-known green. But not only because of this, perhaps primarily because of the seriousness of climate change, we now have high expectations of how the Christian People's Party's road choices will color the government's climate policy. Over the period 1990–2017, Norwegian emissions increased by 2.4 pst. The oil and gas extraction share of these emissions was an increase from 16,1 pst. in 1990 to 28 p.m. in 2017. That's 12 pst. emission increase. We already know that the Stortinget has decided that Norway should cut the total climate emissions by 40 pst. by 2030, and the Christian People's Party has said that they believe two thirds of this is to be taken in Norway. This week we could also read that the Christian People's Party wants to change the distorting special taxes of which the oil industry benefits, and will bring this to the government negotiations, and this is what my question is about. On behalf of the government, the Minister of Finance has admitted that the tax system is not neutral but that it favours the oil industry. If we had a neutral tax system, we'd have revenues to the state of over 10 billion. kr more than today. So the oil industry is being subsidized by 10 billion today. kr every year, and then we haven't yet calculated the subsidies through the exploration fusion scheme, which adds 10 billion. kr to it. Does the Minister of Oil and Energy believe that State subsidies of over 10 billion. kr every year is necessary for an economically and climate-responsible activity on the base?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e473	First of all, this question falls within the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. In the case of the lighter fusion system, it is not a subsidy scheme. The read-back mechanism on the Norwegian base was introduced to ensure a level playing field for companies in and outside the tax position. Furthermore, there is a clear desire for more players on the base, and that is precisely what the search for fusion mechanism contributes to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e480	Subsidies through the petroleum tax, which I mentioned as the first 10 billion. SEK, including in 2018 SEK 1.5 billion. NOK in faster depreciation and SEK 9.2 billion. kr in investment deductions in the special tax, so that's not the search fusion scheme I'm talking about when I'm talking about the 10 billion. kr. The light fusion scheme is a subsidy, it is also called the Ministry of Finance. It's not just an advance on subtraction. There are examples of foreign companies that have earned up to 5 billion. kr paid and never entered the tax position. It's a five-billion-dollar direct gift. kr from the Norwegian State to non-resident companies. If the oil industry does not find it profitable to invest on the base without 10 billion. in subsidies, does that not mean that the risk associated with these investments is too high? Does this not mean that the State actually contributes to greater oil activity, unprofitable investments and greater emissions than we would have had in a market that was allowed to operate neutrally?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e489	As I pointed out in my main answer, these questions belong to the Minister of Finance. But what I can say is that for 2016, the state paid 7.7 billion. kr in light reflux, while the petroleum tax proceeds amounted to 53,5 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e494	There will be follow-up questions – first Une Bastholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e499	I would like to believe that although this is a tax system and therefore sort under the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Oil and Energy also has a lot of basis and opportunity to have opinions about it. I believe that this special arrangement for oil made very good sense in the 1970s, when we wanted more investment on the base, and also when we were to build on this sector. Realising that it no longer makes sense in 2018 is not about gratitude for what oil revenues have given us or for the effort that all those working in the oil industry have put down, it is about the world changing, oil and gas being shown to boil the globe, and that we have both a responsibility and a self-interest in phasing out the oil industry and letting the renewables out. In other sectors of society, we are used to the fact that the Progress Party is concerned that players have to deal with the real competitive situation in the market. Is it the government's policy to contribute to the distortion of state competition in the market and investments that are not profitable at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e508	The Minister of Oil and Energy disagrees with the premise that we should phase out oil and gas. So I just want to comment that the search for fusion has served this nation well. We can see that, among other things. on our oil fund, and not least we see it today on the diversity we have on the base, a base that is competitive with a diversity of companies. One of the reasons for this is precisely the search for fusion scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e515	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e521	Recently, in the Grand Duchy, we had a visit by Ireland's Minister for Europe, and she celebrated progress in relation to the Irish abortion law. The vote in the Irish Parliament was a step forward for women's rights in Europe, following setbacks in countries such as Ireland. Poland. The independent website of the EU Observer interprets the events of the last few days at home as opposite developments in Norway. Our Prime Minister is willing to restrict women's rights in the abortion law, and the website writes that Norway is moving away from liberal values. But this is also about development policy. Last year, the president of the United States gave a dramatic cut in all funding to organisations operating abortion guidance in developing countries. Health work in war zones is affected, health clinics providing prevention guidance for young people must close down, and the Dutch Minister for Development quickly mobilised to a large conference to compensate for the American cuts. Then she thanked countries that had been co-organisers and took initiatives, it was Belgium, Denmark and Sweden. And she thanked the countries that had first reported their support, it was Canada, Cape Verde, Estonia, Finland, Luxembourg. Norway was not mentioned — in an area where we have always been in front. This is a controversial theme in many countries. Women's right to determine their own bodies is challenged by reactionary forces, the Vatican, Muslim land. Then it's about drying out. Why, under this government, Norway has become less clear in the fight for women's right to abortion, and also in the financing of the UN Population Fund, such as in particular. Going to prevention?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e530	The President assumes that the question goes to the Council of State Astrup.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e535	The answer to that is easy. We have not done what Huitfeldt's representative says, namely to reduce our support. Among other things, we strongly increase our support for UNFPA for 2019. We said in 2016 that we would step up efforts for the SRHR, the National Network for Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights, by 700 million. kr from 2017 to 2020, and we are on our way to achieving that goal. We actually had a big conference here yesterday in Oslo where we gathered 20 countries and many UN organizations to talk about mothers and child health. We collected 1 billion. dollars yesterday, and Norway got boasted to lead the way. Norway's own contribution will be 3 billion. the next years of the global financing facility. About a third of these are directly related to family planning and mother and child health issues, on which Huitfeldt’s representative is concerned. So the fact that we weren't present at one conference doesn't mean we're not interested in this topic. The representative of Huitfeldt has raised this issue over and over again, as if it means that Norway is not concerned with women’s rights in developing countries. I find that very special, because there is no doubt that this is a very important issue for Norway, that we are addressing it in all international contexts, and that we are also giving substantial amounts to promote that agenda, through UN organisations, through civil society organisations and through bilateral assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e542	It's a fact that every year this government cut off money from the United Nations organization that's just running abortion and prevention guidance every year in the first few years. This was noted internationally. Then we got the Dutch initiative, where we got a clear challenge from the Dutch government to step up our support. But we were never in the first row, we came dilting after the rest. I believe that when the government now wants to change the Norwegian abortion law, we have to compensate for the expression that the Prime Minister agrees to give internationally. I think it's embarrassing that the first few years of this government cut off the money from the UN Population Fund, and I expect the Minister of Development to do something more than attack the opposition. He should take this as a positive challenge to strengthen women's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e547	I agree that the opposition is helping to create the impression that the abortion law is under threat in Norway, and that it is also spreading internationally, of course, unfortunate. Now this is outside my constitutional responsibility, but I am aware that there are no parties in this room that have been called upon to change the right to self-determined abortion until week 12 in Norway. I also want to react very strongly – or let me rephrase it, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e552	That's wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e557	Please, Councillor Astrup.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e562	Fortunately, we don't have much to disagree about when it comes to international engagement, if that's how our participation in one conference is what the opposition is concerned about on this issue. There is no doubt that we are increasing our efforts, that we are concerned about this topic, that we are taking it up in relevant forums, and that we are a driving force internationally in a landscape where unfortunately there are some countries that are taking a step back where they should have taken a step forward. Norway considers that to be unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e567	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e572	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The majority decided in March that the government would develop different models for balancing network tariffs and come back to Stortinget with this as a separate matter in the autumn of 2018. In the State budget, the government chooses to skip this decision. No models are presented, no concrete answers to Stortinget's clear order will come. Instead, the government claims, as it has claimed for a long time, that all the balancing models will weaken the incentives for efficient operation of the network companies. Today, residents pay in large parts of the country, e.g. in the State Council's own country of residence, Northland, more in network rental than the inhabitants of, for example, the Oslo area. Only a small proportion of the tariffs paid by customers are affected by the cost-effective nature of the company. On the other hand, what is cost-driven is customer density, topography, weather and wind as well as payment for the overarching network. Although the network companies merge, the deep valleys and the high mountains do not disappear. Does the Council of State think it is fair that the inhabitants of the district have to pay more in rent than the inhabitants of the largest cities, and that the gap between those who pay the most, and those who pay the least, is so great?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e583	The government asked the government to come back for the balancing of net tariffs this autumn. We already did that in the budget proposal for next year. Therefore, the size has the possibility to discuss the issue of balancing network tariffs. In the government's draft budget, we are not proposing to introduce a system for balancing net tariffs. This is closer and, in my opinion, thoroughly explained in the proposition. I am concerned that all people have a secure power supply at the lowest possible cost. Our power grid is essential for a secure power supply. The costs of maintaining and deploying the mains are borne by those using the network. The regulation of the mains shall contribute to the efficient operation and deployment of the network and to the cost to electricity customers not being higher than is necessary. The differences in tariffs are due to geographical circumstances, differences in customer base and differences in efficiency. Several different tariff balancing models have been investigated in the past, including by previous governments, but have been rejected because they have weaknesses for various reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e593	I just have to say that the Council of State is standing here defending the government's refusal to follow up a clear decision made by the Stortinge. Balancing tariffs will not lead to any deterioration in efficiency, as the Council of State claims. The income regulation of the companies will remain. If the transmission system operators operate less cost-effectively, the owner shall mark it in the form of reduced returns. It's a self-regulatory mechanism. In the submission to the State budget to the Stortinget, the Council of State points out that there is no link between investment for renewable development and high local network rental. It strongly contests Sogn and Fjordane Energia. The same goes for KS Business. Governments are familiar with these points of view. What does he think is wrong with the description of these two key actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e600	The government has updated the knowledge base of the NVE report, which has thoroughly addressed this issue, and previous governments have reached the same conclusion as this government regarding how we best set up the network tariff. Let me take an example from my area, which I know very well: Rødøy-Lurøy Power Plant, which was part of Nordlandsnet on 1 January 2016. Before the merger, Rødøy-Lurøy Kraftwerk had a network cost of 64,28 øre/kWh. In 2017, the merged company had a net cost of 25,30 ø/kWh. There's a significant difference. Lower network rentals and greater security of power supply have been provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e607	There will be follow-up questions – first Hege Haukeland Liadal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e612	I use the opportunity to welcome the Council of State to oral Question Time. I want to follow up on Mr Borch's question about the investigation. There must be no doubt in this room that this year the Stortinget asked for an investigation into online rentals. What, in the opinion of the Council of State, is an investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e619	I refer to my answer to my main question: The government has responded to the request decision in the budget proposal for next year, which is in Stortinget. And we'll also show you on what basis you've concluded. Different models have been evaluated, and it is shown that today’s system is what serves this best. And then I also show that what I'm concerned about is that all people have a secure power supply at the lowest possible cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e624	Tore Storehaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e629	The distribution that has come recognizes that there are some injustices, such as topography and geography, that are different in the country and that lead to inequalities. Then we also have one thing here in the Storting where the great majority, and also the government party, recognized that especially some force-requiring areas have come out worse, and in a way that has not been fair. I would like to quote my favorite quote from the statement relating to the State budget: ‘For example, increases in online rents may result in increased demand from dissatisfied customers and negative media attention’. It types the government as a target and a foundation for what one must have today's system. When one also knows that the government determines that not everything in today's system is fair, and the government emphasises that a wish for a most cost-effective system, which will benefit customers, I would like to ask whether this applies to all customers, or whether it is still a goal to have dissatisfied customers, for example. in Northernland or in Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e641	As explained in the Ministry of Oil and Energy’s budget proposal, instead of introducing a balancing mechanism, it is appropriate to provide for efficient companies and an efficient network structure. Several groupings of network carriers have been open in recent years, resulting in the balancing of network tariffs. And exactly the example I used from Rødøy-Lurøy shows that there are many good and satisfied customers also in Northern Ireland who have received a significantly reduced web cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e648	So we're going to go to the last main question in this question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e653	The size of the plot was previously treated this year as a production and development plan for the Johan Castberg field. A broad majority underlined the need and demand for local ring effects. This will be a strong factor in planning how to take oil from field to market, possibly via land. It is perhaps the most important of the many oil bids that have been the success criteria for the extraction of Norwegian oil and gas, not least the strong legitimacy of the petroleum industry in the West. I think both the Council of State and I are waiting anxiously for what Equinor is proposing to the government for infrastructure solutions for the Johan Castberg field. A proposal has been promised by Christmas 2018, and the Stortinget has thus been clear in its expectations. It's not to be misunderstood. In the meantime, I would like to ask the Council of State about his view of the oil bid on maximum local and regional ring-effects, and how this might be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e660	Petroleum activities have major ring-fenced effects on the mainland. Around 170 000 are currently employed directly or indirectly in the petroleum industry. As Minister of Oil and Energy, I am also concerned that the petroleum industry in the Barents Sea, on which the representative is involved, will produce ring-effects on land, as it already does in Hammerfest and in the region around Hammerfest. As pointed out, the Stortinget has been concerned with the issue of oil transhipment in Finnmark when examining the development plan for the Castberg field in June. Oil companies are now investigating the alternative transfer solutions for oil from Castberg in Finnmark, in line with what the Stortinget said. In the budget proposal from the Ministry, the Ministry briefs on the background and status of the work being done. I want to come back to Stortinget with up-to-date information on the ongoing investigation work, other relevant issues and follow-up to the two request decisions taken by Stortinget on this matter. There's an important question that's being asked here. As Minister of Oil and Energy, I share the representative's wish to have the greatest possible impact on the activity we have on the Norwegian base. We have that with the 170 000 people who are connected to this industry in some form. It is of great importance to the local communities around the country, considering that these people work and live there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e670	I am pleased that the Council of State is concerned with both local and regional ring-effects, but I want to point out, ask for and challenge the Council of State on one thing. Is the Council of State, like the Storting, in agreement that the transhipment terminal on land, on a general basis – if I add it – is the result of the greatest possible local and regional effects on oil and gas activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e675	As I pointed out in my answer, you are now investigating what kind of solutions are most considerate of a good economy in the various projects. Once we get those investigations on the table, we're going to come back to Stortinget, as I said, with a good answer to what is the space for the Castberg field in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e680	There will be follow-up questions – first Ingalill Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e685	In Finnmark we celebrated 12 February 2013. It was a party, and there was a celebration at Veidnes when it was announced that the oil from the Johan Castberg field would be landed. I know that, because I was there, and I attended that party. Five years have passed, and the upsurge of petroleum activity in Finnmark has unfortunately fallen since the years have passed and nothing has happened. Now it's registered new findings, and it's important that we follow it up, so that we get ring-effects. We know that we have national ring-effects of it, we know that we have regional effects of it, but the demand from Finnmark – and I allow myself to do that on behalf of all the Finnmarks – is quite unambiguous: there should be local ring-effects. And how do we get that? Yes, we will if it is landed. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State support it, and does he agree with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e696	The Council of State agrees that activity on Norwegian pedestal has ring-effects, it has major ring-effects, and it has different ring-effects in all parts of the country. This council of states comes from the Western Channel, what is referred to as Northland VII, and lives in a small town called Hernes. It's a small place with few people. And that struck the council when he – having been home last weekend and traveled back to Oslo to do his job – sat on the plane between Stokmarknes and Bodø and saw those who were on the plane: Where were they going? Well, they were on their way to the Norwegian base, in different jobs at different installations. Many of these live in my village. That's why we have a store, so we have a school, so we have a viable society. These are ring effects of Norwegian socket, and therefore I agree that activity on the socket creates ring effects. It's very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e707	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e721	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health, has been transferred to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation as the right person.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e732	The President will address question 2 first, as the President does not see that the Council of State Siv Jensen – to answer question 1 – is present.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e740	‘After the state budget was presented, Onøe has notified the route offer of up to 18 commercial routes. The profitability of the commercial routes on the short-distance network has deteriorated as a result of government policy. The introduction of the seat charge, together with the landing charges to Avinor, weakens the competitiveness of aeroplanes with few seats flying short distances. The charging load per person seat/kilometre is very high compared to large aeroplanes. How will the Council of State ensure route provision in the districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e747	Let me first of all say that air traffic is an important part of the collective supply in many areas of Norway. Nevertheless, the number of those actually out flying is growing year by year – even now. We see from the last numbers that we have an average increase in the number of flight passengers at 2.1 pst, but there are fewer air traffic controllers than before. It means fuller aeroplanes, less greenhouse gas emissions and more efficient flight services. The aviation industry is a tough business. There are a lot of airlines competing to transport the passengers where they're going. That's essentially good, but of course it also bites to the pressure margins in many cases. In order to ensure good air route provision and better framework conditions in the districts, we have several measures to support it. From the state side we buy, among other things. regional air routes each year, which largely finance the entire route network to Onderøe. We also spend a lot of money through the Avinor system by giving Avinor 30 pst. a discount for many of the smallest aerodromes, and a lower terminal charge for the smallest flights as district flights. In addition, a differentiated employer’s fee was reintroduced for transport operators in 2018. In the State budget for 2019, the government also proposes to change the air passenger charges so that it will be lower for flights in Norway and higher from Norway and out of Europe. All these measures are instruments to help ensure a good framework for regional aviation, and show the seriousness of the government’s response. Of course, I am aware of the situation we have. have operated in North Norway, where onions have cancelled more than 200 flights this year. We've also seen the review of it. It shows that either the flights are commercial or are part of government purchases of the FOT routes, we are dependent on a company that provides stable and reliable services over time. I think that the policy underpins this through the arrangements we have, while at the same time taking care of the major decisions that have been taken, among other things. with regard to air passenger charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e758	The Council of State has now outlined several measures that underpin a clear willingness — and an attitude — to understand the importance of this in rural aircraft. But a reduction that has been announced in the airport fee, from 83 to 75 kroner, will have a very minimal impact on Return. This is probably an example of the government's, in my opinion, misguided policy. It is expensive to travel in the districts, but cheap to travel by direct routes abroad. Is it a desired policy that the public transport of districts and an important prerequisite for national value creation should be penalised by the fact that people have to pay a full-price ticket for Honningsvåg-Tromsø-Honningsvåg of more than DKK 5000, where almost NOK 1000 of this ticket price is a fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e763	This is a little bit of a sought-after equation. If the airline passenger charge of 75 kroner was the main challenge, and that is now the overall charging charge, it has significantly changed its character. I note that the Senterpartiet has been against the airline passenger fee – as was the Progress Party when we were in opposition – but had to negotiate a solution in Stortinget. It must sometimes happen when one is sitting and controlling. I realize that it's been a long time since the Center Party did it – I'm so happy about it – but it shows that sometimes it's necessary to find compromise. I think that through the state purchases of the FOT routes, through the measures we've been through already, which make clear how the state manages this to ensure that there is a good collective provision in the districts, we take care of this. Then the question is, if what remains, is a unit of 75 kroner for the passenger seat, I am uncertain whether it will roll over the entire transport offer, when the total price after all is 5000 kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e772	I think the Center Party is useful for negotiating. I don't think anyone in this room should deny that. We propose in our alternative budget that aeroplanes below 20 tonnes should not have such a charge. It will cost approx. One hundred million. kr. The operating margins are negative and the airlines are now on equity. This results in reduced opportunities for investment in new aeroplanes as well as making it difficult for a creator or – even the centre party to use such a concept – innovative development work in relation to the electrification of aeroplanes, i.e. the opposite effect of what was intended for the flight fee. Does the Minister not see that this is a serious threat to both the districts and the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e779	The tax question now raised by the representative is normally the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, and thus the Minister of Finance is justifiably responsible for answering it. I will try, however, but it is worth it, when the Minister of Finance sits in the Chamber. In principle, we have now submitted a model that takes care of what Stortinget has asked of us, simply to see if it is possible to differentiate on the basis that the air passenger charge, even if it is a fiscal charge, is actually intended to charge emissions. We have an internal pricing in Norway where we have a lot of traffic, although it's part of the collective supply. As we've already been in, I'm not sure about 75 kroner of a ticket price of 5000 kroner is what's going on. That there will be other proposals in Stortinget, we will have a discussion about when that time comes. I think we have come across on the subject through the change that has been made to the 2019 draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e788	The size is happy to see that the Minister of Finance is present in the storeroom. Then we go back to question 1, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to a hopefully not too breathless finance minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e796	It is tempting to continue where the previous one left off, but I will not. I'll go to my question: ‘Following the NRK on 31 October, the customs service is experiencing a sharp increase in the number of seizures of weapons ordered online by children and young people, but they are taking far from everything. Mostly, the customs inspectors at Gardermoen seized 180 knives in one day. Following the Tollata itself, their efforts will probably save lives and certainly prevent many injuries. At the same time, the Tollaten seizures statistics show an increase in seizures of cocaine, heroin and synthetic drugs. Does the Council believe that the Customs Tariff has sufficient resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e805	I appreciate the central party's commitment to border control, and that's an engagement we share. The toll has never made as many seizures as in 2017. Substantial customs officers, good intelligence, good analytical work and targeted border presence contributed to over 37 000 seizures. The amount of alcohol seized has not been higher in the last 50 years, and never has it made so many seizures of drugs. The number of weapons has increased by 60 pst. and despite a large increase in air traffic, the same level of control has been maintained as in the past. In the 2017 Annual Report, the customs director states that the government’s strengthening of border control is probably an important reason why the customs duty rate has never made as many seizures as it did in 2017. But with 40 million travellers annually and over 45 million postal items to Norway each year, total customs control is not practicable. The representative, Mr Görlsvik, asks whether the customs office has sufficient resources. I believe that the customs office has sufficient resources to handle its tasks properly. They have better control over cross-border movements now than before. The results are better than the last Central Party in government. I am very pleased with the great effort that the government has made, but we can never lend ourselves back to satisfaction, because the smugglers are also constantly finding new methods. There are very great opportunities in the use of modern technology in the customs department. In the 2019 budget, the government has proposed an allocation for the development of digitised system support for customs border controls. A total of approximately half a billion dollars shall be used for this in the period 2019-2022. Norsk Tollerförbund, who organizes the brother part of Norwegian customs officials, mentions the draft budget as positive news for the customs department, and the Federal Director states that it is gratifying to see that the government wants to bet on developments in the department. I am concerned with a strong border control. This government has significantly strengthened the customs tariff, and fortunately we see results of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e820	The party of progress does not take people's security seriously. Neither does the party take seriously those who work to protect people's security. The country around us is reporting a crisis to police personnel. Those who work with border control also report a crisis. One, for example, has employees in the customs office who say that it has become easier to be smugglers. The head of the Tolls Association reported earlier this year that they are irresponsiblely thinly manned, and that it will undermine social security. He requires extra appropriations in the hundreds of millions of dollars. So what is the Council of State's answer to that? Well, it's putting forward a budget for the customs tariff that is in practice a zero budget. Does the Council of State really feel that it is right when you get a notification of weapons and drugs that are flooding across the border, and the state itself reports a crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e825	That was rather the opposite I answered to the first question. There is nothing like "flooding across the border". It'll be stopped at the frontier. There have never been as large seizures as they are now, among other things. because this government has systematically strengthened the tariff rate over several years. And we are continuing to strengthen the budget for 2019, including: because it is necessary to facilitate the use of new technologies by the establishment. This allows you to use the resources in a smarter way. However, it is not the case that there is no requirement for the customs tariff in terms of improving efficiency. This applies to all state agencies. But they now get a lot out of the resources we use, and unlike the black paint of the customs tariff that the representative Gülsvik operates, I'm proud of it. I'm proud of what our customs do every day. The fact that the seizures are as large as they are now indicates that we have good tollers. They do good analysis and good intelligence. There is a lot of good work done, and instead of sending a message from the Central Party to the customs office that they are not doing their job, I will send the opposite message, namely that they are doing an amazing job, through the numbers of seizures that they can now make visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e832	I fully agree that the employees in the customs department do a very good job within a very tight framework. I want to refer to what the Ministry of Finance itself writes in its own budget. For example, on page 67, they indicate that the number of controlled objects drops, and on page 72, that there is a large and increasing labour pressure at border stations. On page 71, they state that ‘the control coverage is reduced as a result of increased traffic and that more resources have to be moved from control to dispatch tasks’. With Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance, law-abiding Norwegian citizens have had to pay more and more taxes, while leaving the country open to smugglers and criminal gangs. When one in his own budget has that description of the situation in the customs department, doesn't the Council of State see that she herself describes a crisis that she's not near to solving when she doesn't give extra appropriations to the customs office, as the department itself wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e839	I totally disagree with that mistrust description. Here the representative Gülsvik claims that we expose the country to criminals. What kind of statement is that? The representative, Gielsvik, knows better. We have a customs office that works well, which does a fantastic job every single day, and which makes it visible through its reporting that the seizures have never been bigger than they are now. In addition, I am confident that the customs director and his staff will continue to make assessments of how best to prioritise their resources using customs-technical methods. They know best, based on the intelligence work done in the new centre, how to dispose of their resources in order to have the greatest possible probability of success in seizures statistics. With the combination of the customs work done, and new instruments that the customs duty rate is introduced regularly, not least now, with the technological effort, we will have a modern and very good customs rate that does its job and deliver good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e846	So we go to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e854	‘Many commuters on the Gjøvik Railway, especially those who travel far every day, report a lower offer after the new trains on the route were put into service. Those who were previously able to work on the train believe that the reduction in double seats and the introduction of seat reservation reduce the possibility of combining travel and work. What will the Council of State do to ensure that commuters on the Gjøvik course receive at least the same quality as before without having to pay extra for it, as they now have to do?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e861	Clients must feel that train provision is getting better and better. As a basis for this, the NSB Gjøvik track performs a customer survey twice a year to gather views on the train product. The study in spring 2018 shows that there is a great improvement in how customers experience the quality of their journeys in the new Flirt train. For example, travellers have expressed that they feel that the cabin comfort is much better. The new train sets have air conditioning, power outlets for each seat, Wi-Fi coverage throughout the train and significantly better space. With the old trainsets, it has been a challenge in recent years to set trainsets to run all flights in the timetable. The running path now has a right regularity with new trainsets, and no settings following failure of the train sets after the new ones have been put into operation. Traveling can reserve space in advance for a price supplement if you want to be able to secure a place with workability. Free non-preserved seats are available without price extensions. The old trainsets had only 12 seats with the corresponding working capacity, and these were reserved for travellers with a Comfort ticket for a price supplement. The price supplement for reserved work is otherwise reduced from 1600 SEK to 1200 SEK per month after the launch of the new trains. In the design of the interior of the train sets to Gjøvikbanen, it was necessary to find the right point of balance between good comfort for those travelling far and the need to ensure adequate transport capacity between Nittedal and Oslo. In the old trainsets there were several two-plus-to-seats in width, while the Flirt train has a larger volume of seats with working capacity and generally better sitting comfort. Overall, for all travellers on the Gjøvik track, this must be said to be a significant improvement in the supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e874	In the response from the State Council, there is little indication that he has driven the Gjøvik Railway, either before or after the new train sets. I do, and the work opportunities were much better with the old train sets because there were a lot more seats to sit and work on – double seats with tables – in the old train sets. I'm a little surprised that you don't actively look at what's the problem with regional trains. The same situation occurred in 2012 for the regional trains that went to Hamar. Then the NSB made changes to the interior of the train sets to give you better comfort for those who complained. Then my question is, when the Council of State does not meet the situation that arises, is this because we have a new government? Or is it because we've put the Gjøvik track off for competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e879	It comes first of all, I think, that we see that most passengers experience an improvement in the train service. It is quite right that the representative says that I have not yet travelled with the Gjøvik track, but I traveled with the Bergensbanen no on the weekend that was. I like to take a walk on the Gjøvik track to look at it, for my own part. I am busy making sure that all companies operating on the Norwegian railway system are as satisfied as possible. This means that a range of offers is important, but at the same time we have to make sure that no passengers are so satisfied that all other passengers are fundamentally missing. That balance sheet must be sought by the company and the operator, it is those who have a customer relationship. I have expectations that those who provide a service to Norwegian Railways are actively targeting customers in order to continuously optimise the supply they are able to provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e886	There is no doubt that those who take the train from Nittedal and use 20 minutes on the train have received a better offer, but those who travel from Gjøvik and spend two hours and ten minutes each day on the single route – over four hours a day – have received a worse offer. That's what this case is about. When I heard earlier today, the Council of State replied that the competition on the Sørlandsbanen had given 3 billion. kr in savings, is my challenge to the Council of State: Will the Council of State go in and look at what is the regional train offer at Gjøvikbanen, i.e. not local-ogene, see if it is possible to take action there for those who use more than four hours a day to get to work – in line with what the government says in many contexts, that you have to be willing to go further to get work? Will the Council of State spend some of the three billion dollars doing something with the comfort of those who travel and spend four hours a day, so that they can get a better offer on the Gjøvik Railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e893	I don't intend to use a crown I don't have to, and that means that the first thing we have to do is see if it's possible to improve the supply for all the customers, and where the material we have is first priority. I don't ignore the fact that because we have implemented a rail reform, because we have now set up more routes and free resources, we can use it to strengthen supply in other areas in the future. But I don't have – and I think that's quite fundamental – the intention to take from the operator of the track, the responsibility for his customer relationship. If we are to have a good supply of customers over time – to passengers travelling – it is in the first place in the relationship we have to enjoy, simply because a company will never take the customers seriously if customers jump to the state and try out all the ratings they make. So we have to take this in the right order, and I'm going to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e904	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘About 200-300 workers who worked with asbestos before the ban in Norway in 1980 are affected annually by lung and lung cancer. What can help them is that this is discovered in time with CT screening. When I took this up with the Minister of Health on issues of 25 May 2016 and 22 February 2017, he referred to a Norwegian expert group that assesses this. The group again referred to a Belgian-Dutch study among smokers on the usefulness of CT. This one has now come and shows that CT saves lives. Will the Council provide for CT screening of former asbestos workers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e913	In my reply to representative Bøhler last year, I referred to the study in the Netherlands and Belgium where screening has been investigated to reduce the mortality of lung cancer among smokers. The legislation requires workers who may be exposed or have been exposed to asbestos fibre dust to undergo a lung and respiratory health examination. The employer shall keep records of workers who have been or may be exposed to asbestos fibre dust. However, there is no historical overview of asbestos-exposed workers in Norway. According to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, there is currently no basis for recommending the use of CT screening of workers who have previously been exposed to asbestos. However, the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work, STAMI, cooperates with the medical professional community and work-life organisations on the possible use of imaging in work involving, inter alia, exposure to asbestos. If a screening programme is to be introduced to detect cancer in individuals as early as possible, account should be taken of the fact that screening should only be offered when the results overshadow the documented negative effects of screening – both for individuals and for society. The working group was to deliver a final report during 2016, but they await the results of the Dutch-Belgian study, to which the representative of Bohemia refers. The study is delayed, but the results are expected to be published in the first half of 2019. I would like to await the final report from the Norwegian working group before deciding on the use of screening among workers who are or have been exposed to asbestos in connection with their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e926	I thank you for your answer. When I first asked the Council of State about this, in 2016, the Council of State just said there was going to be a final report in autumn 2016. The government itself said in its answer that there may be as many as 350 cases of lung cancer or cancer of the lung in the year that are affected by working with asbestos, which increases the risk very strongly, perhaps up to 90 pst. So what I have to say is very serious and tragic here, is that we know that it can happen, as the Council of State said, up to 350 cases of lung cancer/pulmonary skin cancer every year where asbestos is an important factor, and that we are not rushing to make this decision. I don't think it's right that there are no registers. According to those who have worked with this in the industry, the companies that worked with asbestos have company registers of workers who worked with asbestos at this time. So I think you should make more effort here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e931	It is important for me to stress that the group included in the Dutch-Belgian study only includes heavy smokers. The requirements for participating in that study have been 30 years of smoking with 20 cigarettes per day, smoking has not been completed in the last 15 years, age is between 55 and 74 years of age, and an assessment of operability has also been made when screening clearly shows lung cancer. Asbestos position was not an inclusion criterion, and the study is not about it. The results that have been presented include: recent in Toronto, the results of this study have not yet been published in a scientific peer-reviewed journal. One must also be aware that there are negative effects of screening, both... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e936	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e941	I also thank you for the additional reply. The Council of State says that the study, called the NELSON study, concerned large smokers, but there is probably no kind of professional doubt that asbestos increases the risk of lung cancer and lung cancer. These workers have a right to study in the Working Environment Act and in the asbestos Regulation when they have been exposed to asbestos, so I believe this is different from a general screening discussion. This is about a right that these have to investigate, and then we in society should do our best to help them. I have received many tragic descriptions from families where especially fathers or grandparents are affected by this. I think we should do our best, and then we should go into whether we could use the company's records of former employees to do these investigations, because it could go up to 40 years before they expose themselves to the disease. I must say I am disappointed with the passivity of the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e946	It brings us to what I was talking about, namely the negative effects of screening, because if it had been so that CT-screening itself was just a positive element, I would have understood the representative's objection. But it is precisely this that the working group has also worked a lot on, because there is a documented negative effect of screening, with both overdiagnosis, X-rays, which give rise to increased risk, the damage potential of the investigation when the tumour is not operable, and the psychological pressures that such a situation entails for the individual. Therefore, careful assessments are behind that type of screening, and it has been established from the working group that it is agreed that by being exposed to asbestos one will not benefit from participating in a screening if one does not have an additional major risk factor, which is smoking.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e954	This question, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health, has been transferred to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation who is directing the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e959	‘On 6 October 2018, the VG published a case on three brothers at Tolga who, without knowing it, were diagnosed as mentally retarded and later forced to work. The diagnosis was made without prior examination. The Health Minister has asked the Health Directorate for quality assurance of diagnostics. Will the Council of State take the initiative to change the system whereby the diagnosis of mental retardation gives more money to the municipalities, so that state grants are provided on the basis of needs, not in diagnosis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e966	Thank you very much for your question. This matter of the three brothers in Tolga is very serious. The government has announced that we will go through what has happened in this case in a thorough manner. The established supervisory authorities of the Health Authority, the State Civil Service Administration and the County of Hordaland shall review the various parts of the case and the County of Hordaland are requested to coordinate the work of a joint final report. All residents shall have a good and equivalent welfare offer, irrespective of their place of residence. Municipalities are currently financed mainly through free revenues, without unnecessary and cost-effective constraints. It is the municipality that is closest to the inhabitants and that can best follow up the inhabitants, so that they get the services they need. I believe that quality increases and administrative costs are reduced when services are financed through framework funding. Grants granted after reimbursement of expenditure based on the municipality’s own assessment of needs will violate these basic funding principles. I therefore see no reason to change today's overall funding system. The criterion ‘number of persons with mental retardation aged 16 and over’ is included in the income system for municipalities. The criterion has been the allocation criterion in the cost key since 1998, when the earmarked grants for mentally retarded persons were included in the framework grant to municipalities. The number of people with mental retardation varies a lot between municipalities, and thus the costs of providing services to these communities also vary. The criterion today ensures that municipalities with high expenditure for this group receive compensation for additional costs so that they can provide this group with the service they need and require, without prejudice to other services in the municipality. There may be problematic aspects of having a criterion based on diagnosis and self-reporting from the municipality. Prior to the previous revision of the income system in 2017, a research project was carried out by the Ministry to assess how to capture the variation in local government expenditure in the care sector, including the criterion ‘number of mentally retarded 16-year-olds and older’. However, a good alternative to this criterion was not found, which is why it was also continued after 2017. These data are collected by the Health Directorate on behalf of KMD. The Health Directorate has now been asked to clarify the criteria for making the diagnosis of mental retardation and to make the criteria well known for healthcare. In addition, the Directorate will contribute to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation with regard to a review of the process of reporting the number of people with mental retardation from municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e979	Thanks for the answer. I am pleased that the government and the municipal minister have taken this matter into account and have received the review that the County of Hordaland is going to lead. I am generally skeptical when connecting diagnosis against income. The same is true in hospitals. It is easy for diagnostics to be non-preferable, because it is connected to income. But I also understand, as the Council of State is doing well, that one must have some criteria. I have a follow-up question that means that a person should now clarify the criteria for making a diagnosis. Is it the case that a regular practitioner should be able to make this diagnosis?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e986	I understand the scepticism of connecting diagnosis and income. The point is that very often diagnostics are associated with expenditure as well, and that's what makes it a little complicated. Best practice is that such a diagnosis should be based on multidisciplinary assessment. The decision-maker may determine it, but then based on a thorough assessment. Now, as said, the Health Directorate and the Health Authority are going through this thoroughly: how are things going today, and how can you make any changes? This is a matter which naturally falls within the responsibility of the Minister of Health and Health, but it is closely linked, because it is the diagnosis that triggers the income of the municipality. As I said, it's related to the expenditure the municipality has, and we haven't found any better way to do it. It also turns out that municipalities use consultants to find out who they are helping, and who have a diagnosis. It's completely unnecessary. We also have to make this system better known to the municipalities, and we have to meet with KS about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e995	I had originally asked this question to the Minister of Health, because this goes in a way between two councils of state. But I have a penitentiary, and that's that the distribution and diagnosis of developmental inhibitions never have to happen with a regular, it's a task for the specialist services. I could wish that the government, regardless of what is now happening in this review, would grasp it, and that one would specify and be clear that no fixed person should be able to make that diagnosis. It has to be done after thorough disposal in the specialist services, because this may be difficult to diagnose. I think that a little of the reason that has gone so terribly crazy is that one has a slum with the diagnosis. It's unforgivable, but it's also a system responsibility to fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1000	We'll take that responsibility. It is such that both the Minister of Health and I could have answered this question, but it was primarily linked to the cost key, which is why I am answering it. There's no doubt about what's the recommended best way to do this, and that's not the way it's done in Tolga. In the Tolga case, it seems very much – not to say everything – to have gone wrong. Putting a diagnosis in a fast doctor is one thing, making a diagnosis on people you haven't seen is something quite another. This is serious, and we are addressing this. Then we get our professional authorities to do research and report improvements to the system. I fully agree that it is a systemic responsibility to make changes that make people know what diagnosis they have, that the diagnosis is set in a proper way, and that the expenses of the municipality are captured. This is a trust-based system, it's very good that we can have, and it's actually worked for years. It is not good when someone exploits or abuses this system. We're not going to have it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1010	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Climate and Environment: ‘The county of Nordland proposes to protect the Ursvatnet area of Brønnø municipality on the basis of the notification of the 7000 target forest area for voluntary protection. A protection will block the planned expansion of the lime extraction activity in the area, an activity that sustainably provides economic development and value creation in a state that has not experienced population growth for 50 years but is rich in mineral resources on which the government says it wants to invest. Does the Council of State consider such protection to be in the best interests of Northern Ireland?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1019	The protection proposal for the Ursvatnet nature reserve has the background that the owner has offered the area for voluntary forest protection. The area has protection qualities associated with, inter alia: lime-rich undergrowth, lime-rich birch forest and native rainforest and have been assessed as having a regional protection value in forest protection context. Agreement has been reached between the environmental authorities and the landowner on conditions for voluntary protection of the site. At the same time, the area has an interest related to mineral industry, which has been thoroughly described and assessed in the County of Fylkesmann in the Nordic case documents on the protection issue. The protection proposal is now in the Directorate for the Environment, where, among other things: have been completed meetings with the company on the matter. The Directorate will consider positive and negative effects of possible protection, including consequences for relevant commercial interests, as part of its treatment of the subject of protection. By letter of 15 October 2018, the Directorate for Nature Management authorised Brønnøy Kalk AS to expropriate exploration rights under the Mineral Law in the area concerned, as no agreement was reached with landowners. Conditions have been laid down for the protection values to be taken into account when carrying out the test drilling. Any unresolved conflicts of interest that remain when the case comes to the Ministry are assessed in dialogue with the departments concerned, including the Ministry of Food and Fisheries with regard to mineral interests. Because in some cases there is a need to balance mineral interests with forest protection protection values, there is a routine dialogue between the Ministry of Climate and the Environment and the Ministry of Food and Fisheries on such issues. In the examination of the case, the government will focus on taking into account both protection values and industrial interests in a good and holistic manner, in line with the requirements of the investigation manual and of the Nature Diversity Act § 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1030	In contributions to the State in the consultation process, inter alia: the municipalities concerned and the municipality of Nordland pointed out that the possibility of future exploitation of mineral resources in this area must be ensured. A unanimous assembly, including the Council of State's own party, stated that they were critical to the protection of the area as proposed, i.e. without demarcation or opening to the road. At the same time, we know from experience that County recommendations are largely followed in further treatment at the directorate and department, and the possibility of impact is decreasing. But it is reassuring that the Council of State says that you interact with several departments and will evaluate this after recording. Does the Council of State believe that the process so far in this matter is adequately maintaining and respecting local democracy in municipalities and county municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1037	This is a voluntary protection scheme. The landowner here has wanted to have a protection of this area, and then follows the usual procedure in it. This is now at the Directorate for the Environment, and I am not going into the assessments that they are doing. As I understand it, this is about some limestone resources that can lie within this area. A test drilling permit has been granted, and then it is the transport of the resource that is really the issue. So there's nothing else to answer to than that this is a system that follows the usual processes. It is now in the Directorate for the Environment, and we will make the necessary adjustments on the basis of the recommendation they make, including in close contact with other departments, such as the Ministry of Food and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1044	In the end, I understand that it follows normal processes, but it is in a way the ability you have to influence in the usual processes, even if a landowner reports it. In the government platform, it says that it is to be invested in mineral extraction in North Norway, something that we in the Center Party are very pleased about. We also recently saw that Nordland Right stated that they do not want more protection at the expense of economic development in their own country. Protection as proposed and recommended by the State, without following consultation opinions, will effectively stop future value creation of 65 billion. I'll spend the next hundred years. Can the Council of State confirm what is and will be the government's policy in this matter? Would you like even more protection in Northern and Helgeland, also based on voluntary ownership of land, or would the government like to facilitate mineral extraction and value creation for the future in Northern Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1053	As far as this particular case is concerned, I cannot go into that decision, except to say that there will be a balance between the protection interests and the mineral resources that are there, and as I said, it is also allowed for drilling within the proposed area. Then there will be a discussion about transportation and what different solutions are possible in view of it. But there's a process going on. Otherwise we will follow the usual processes of voluntary protection. This is a protection for the whole country, it's an offer that's all over the country to follow up what's the Stortinge's decision in connection with a nature diversity announcement that we're going to protect 10 pst. of the forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1063	‘The Minister for Climate and Environment said in an interview with ABC news on 23 October: ‘The state budget’s climate action is not enough to meet the 1.5-degree target, but there are no budgets. I believe that the state budget is a good left and environmental budget.’ Does this mean that the government has given up following the UN climate recommendations and that the Left is satisfied with it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1070	The short answer is no, that doesn't mean that. But the left is happy with the budget that we have. What the 1.5 degree report shows is that we have to implement what we're going to, much faster than previously assumed. We need to reduce emissions by 40-50 pst. globally towards 2030. What we are doing in Norway is firstly that we want to have an agreement with the EU on joint implementation now before Christmas, at 40 p.m., and then, like all other countries, in line with the Paris Agreement, we will assess our targets to be notified to the UN in 2020. We are doing a lot in those key areas where we need to implement measures to achieve the objectives of the 1.5 degree report. One thing is within transport, where we increase appropriations towards the major cities – urban environment agreements, urban growth agreements – climate-friendly cities with bicycles, corridors, public transport, rail bets, within zero-emission vehicles and electric car bets. This year it's 28 pst. We have environmental measures in transport no other country is near. We can also bring forward green shipping – 70 ferry connections on the way in, and other measures on shipping. We are strengthening the areas of activity of Enova, the Eco-Technology Scheme and research funding, in order to have a transition in Norwegian business. We are also working internationally with the major measures to achieve the 2030 target. We know that natural-based solutions can be 30 pst. of what is necessary in order to achieve the objective, so the Norwegian rainforest approach now being increased is an important part of it. We also know that according to the 1.5 degree report, we need to reduce the use of coal internationally as quickly as possible and avoid economies building their growth on fossil energy sources. That is why we are also increasing the international investment in renewable energy to 1 billion. kr. We also know that according to the 1.5 degree report, we risk having negative emissions in the decades to come. Therefore, the government continues to invest in the development of carbon capture and storage with the two projects we have, with Norcem and Klemetsrud, into the budget for 2019. So yes, I'm saying that no budget, nor this budget, is enough to reach the 1.5 degree point, but we're taking the big areas where we have to do more, and where all the other countries also have to do more to have the opportunity to reach the 1.5 degree point.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1081	For my part, there's really no doubt that it's doing a lot. The question is whether that is done enough. The State budget not only falls under the 1.5 degree objective, but also under the Norwegian climate legislation, our obligations entered into the Paris Agreement and the Norwegian climate agreement with the EU. All of these commit us to 40 pst. cut over the period 1990 to 2030, and the projections in the State budget add up to only 11.5 pst. in the same period, without saying anything about what kind of policy one intends to put forward in order to get to the cuts needed to achieve goals. Everyone now knows that climate change is here. We have a bad time if we're going to be able to solve the greatest and what I think is the greatest unfair challenge humanity is facing. I find it hard to trust a government that only plans to cut a third of what the Storing has decided and to which we have committed ourselves. The climate budget submitted by the government is like providing a budget of three times higher expenditure than revenue. The question is: what can the Minister for Climate and Environment say that I should be confident that this course will change?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1088	But a projection is not a goal. A projection is not a plan. The government's target is 40 pst. reduction with the EU. We have expectations of getting that agreement in place before Christmas. Then, like all other countries, we're going to look at our target – whether it's going to change into 2020 next year. Then, according to the Jeløia platform, we will present a plan within the various sectors in the follow-up to the agreement with the EU on how to achieve the objectives of that plan, so we will return to the Stortinget with that. We do a lot. We have targets. We're going to work on strengthening those targets. We also need to clarify how these objectives are to be achieved. In the meantime, there are many targets: only zero-emission vehicle sales in 2025, only zero-emission buses in the major cities in 2025, fossil-free public transport. This we can deal with by area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1095	As I said – the goal of 40 pst. By 2030 we have known for a long time, and those plans could have been clearly presented in this state budget. On the same day as the budget was presented and the UN report was presented, the Minister of Finance stood here and was openly satisfied with 1.7 pst. Last year, a decrease that we know comes mainly from more blending of biofuels into diesel, half of which comes from palm oil. With that, we are at risk of increased emissions and erosion of rainforest abroad. But my point here is that the Minister of Finance simultaneously, on the budget day, presented a new kind of numerical magic. She suddenly compared Norwegian emissions with 1995 and said that Norwegian emissions were now lower than in 1995, while all other adopted references are up to 1990 in Norway. I believe that the way to present this is directly misleading. Such a number magic only does if one wants to camouflage the truth, and the truth is that since 1990 Norway has increased emissions by 2.4 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1102	It is a fact that emissions are now at the same level as they were in 1995. What we weigh our targets up to is 1990. The Paris Agreement applies from 2021 to 2030. We're going to put a plan here so we can now. Until 2020, the Kyoto Agreement is in force. We deliver it – we deliver it according to the agreements we have. And we have the climate agreement in Stortinget, where we're also working to get close to the goal of 48.6 million. tonnes, the target of which is 2020. Then it is good that we have managed to reduce emissions in the transport sector in the last two years. Few countries are doing it. We know what the dilemmas are within biofuels, but we have to go forward, because we need biofuels. But we need a more sustainable and more climate-friendly biofuels than what we have today. Our common task is to get the palm oil out, but still have a commitment to biofuels in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1112	‘The Council of State may define ‘emissions’ and ‘produced unit’ respectively, on the basis of which it is intended to understand what is meant by ‘agriculture must reduce emissions per year’. unit of production’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1117	Norwegian agriculture will produce enough, varied and safe, good-quality food on the basis of which it is produced in Norway. The government therefore stimulates agriculture to adapt food production so that it produces the products that consumers are constantly in demand, while at the same time achieving its climate obligations. In reducing its greenhouse gas emissions, agriculture is essentially doing so by improving production methods and thereby reducing emissions from a production that is best suited to demand, i.e. reducing emissions per unit of output. As an example, breeding NRF-kua has contributed to low greenhouse gas emissions per kilogram of meat produced and per litre of milk produced, due to effective production, good fertility, few sick days and good health through breeding. In 2017, EUR 15 million was granted under the agricultural agreement. kr to Geno, which will research more on the importance of breeding in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from bovine animals. Another example I would like to mention is the increased effort put in through the last agricultural operations to strengthen drainage activity. Since 2013, we have been spending more than 500 million on the agricultural agreement. kr for the drainage of agricultural land. This is a measure that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions per unit produced, as crop growth is expected on the drained areas. So emissions per kilogram of crop produced will decrease. Both agriculture and the government take the climate issue seriously. However, it is more demanding to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from productions based on biological processes, and the effects of measures are more uncertain than is the case for fossil productions. The maximum agricultural emissions are generated by biological and chemical processes in livestock, manure and soil. Good agronomy is good climate work and good animal welfare, and a high level of competence among the farmer is also necessary to achieve the climate targets for the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1132	It is quite obvious that production methods are important. It's obvious that draining soil means that emissions from the area, i.e. per deer, are reduced because one gets more of the fertiliser's power. One gets less anaerobic fermentation and one gets more aerobic fermentation, for example. It's okay. The council says it's important to dig more. My other question is related to the production. There are different products that we eat. For this reason, the Council of State considers that ‘per unit’ applies, for example, to ‘per unit’. beef, pigmeat and lamb as three sea-going units? Or is "meat" a unit?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1139	I was very clear and clear – if the representative listened to my answer – that this is about producing kilograms of meat from different types of animals. And then I say that consumers, customers, will be allowed to choose what you want to eat. If that's the way the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen thinks that you have to put meat together, and then everything is meat, and you change it – it has to be up to those who are going to buy and eat the food, to be allowed to choose. However, the point is to reduce emissions from – for example, I have shown good examples. Cows, where emissions have decreased because of increased production, and you produce more because you have done a lot of grips that have secured it very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1144	What we're discussing is defining the concept of ‘farming needs to reduce emissions per year. unit of production’;» I now understand the Council of State so that the ministry in the term 'pr. unit of production’ does not add meat as an aggregate. One looks at the production of pig meat separately, chicken meat separately, beef separately and lamb separately. Then it's important that it is spread in the department. My question is, Will it, the higher the milk yield, be less emissions in the production of milk and beef combined, in the understanding of the Council of State and what he has now said?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1151	What's the point, we've seen what you've already done. Research funds have been set aside, as Geno received in 2017 in connection with the agricultural agreement, which looks at how, for example: shall reduce the emissions of bovine animals. It is clear that emissions are reduced both per kilogram of meat and per litre of milk produced. This is about reducing the different emissions within different types of animals or types of meat. I want to say that there is a lot of exciting research and development going on. I mentioned Orkel earlier, who is engaged in round-ball presses, which are now looking at the possibility and potential of – when you drive feed into machinery and for round-balls – reducing emissions by maybe up to 30 pst. There's a lot of exciting happening in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1158	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-07.ana.ud403e1172	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
