ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e72	The representative Eirik Sivertsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the state of Troms, Kari-Anne Opsal, now takes the seat. Applications for sick leave are submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Lene Vågslid from 13 June to 15 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Christian Thinning Bjørnø, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e100	The representative of Torhild Bransdal will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e105	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Tore Storehaug, Simon Molvær Grimstad and myself to strengthen legal certainty in the asylum process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e110	The representative, Heidi Greni, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e115	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Jenny Klinge, Willfred Nordlund and myself, I have the honour to put forward a proposal for changes to the divisional law that ensures that all matters of border adjustment where there is disagreement between the municipalities concerned are dealt with by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e120	The representative, Ole André Myhrvold, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e125	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Emilie Enger Mehl, Sandra Borch, Ivar Odnes and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the compensation rules for the loss of grazing animals to predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e130	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e136	On behalf of the representative Petter Eide and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on a long-term and comprehensive lift to Groruddalen and Oslo Sør.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e141	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e161	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the working party 25 minutes, the right 25 minutes, the progress party 15 minutes, the centre party 10 minutes, the Socialist left party 5 minutes, the left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to three lines with replies to the main speakers of the parties and seven lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e172	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the work on the 2019 Community Proposition. We have been under heavy time pressure since the time between the submission of the municipal proposal from the government to the treatment of the cancellation today has been thoroughly short – too short. It has made the work hectic for all of us, not least the Committee Secretariat, who are responsible for resolving comments and proposals for a holistic approach. Thank you very much for the efforts of all of us. I believe that in recent years we should have more time to deal with the municipal proposition, which is one of the most important issues of the year for us. We're going to conduct consultation, the batches are going to deal with the matter properly, and there's going to be room to check out issues that are important for the proceedings. This year, the most recent answer to questions came from the Ministry on the same day that the setting was issued. It shouldn't be like that. The municipal bill provides important guidance for the government budget for the autumn and provides the municipalities and county councils with the necessary signals on the framework within which they can use their own budgets. However, the local authority proposal is more than this. It also provides guidance on how the government considers the relationship between the state and the local government sector in the future. The attitude of the Municipal and Administrative Committee shows how the parties respond to this. Important areas, such as in principle assessments of the conditions of local democracy, the relationship between state and local government, the municipal reform, the regional reform and the development of the income systems of municipalities and counties, have been addressed. The attitude of the Municipal Committee shows that the parties have common objectives for the municipal sector in many areas, but also that there are clear differences and that it matters who controls. This applies both to the economic framework within which the local government sector must work and to the governance framework between the state and the local government sector. The lines of policy are not least expressed when we look at the attitudes of the various parties to the role of the municipal sector. The centre party will build society from below and will therefore spread power, residence, jobs, capital and competences. We want people to have the opportunity to live where they want to. The development of the municipal sector is important in order to maintain scattered housing and to vary business life across the country. Unfortunately, governments do not share these objectives and their policies unfortunately lead in the wrong direction. Major changes have been made in the income systems of the counties and municipalities in 2015 and 2017 respectively. The changes have given rise to major redistributions by reducing the income of areas with low population and large distances from cities and populous parts of the country. For example, the conversion of the income system for county municipalities provides: Oslo a growth of NOK 950 per capita after a full phase-in period of five years. The counties are going to minus – Sogn and Fjordane with a total of NOK 2 427 per capita and Nordland with a total of NOK 1 000. After the conversion of the income system for municipalities in 2017, 239 municipalities lost between 2000 and 25 000 inhabitants, while only 51 came out in favour. All municipalities with over 25 000 inhabitants were winners in this change. There's little doubt that this is conscious policy behind where we find the winners and the losers. The government does not propose major changes in the income system for 2019, but the changes announced go in the same path, from small to large and from districts to central areas. The Centre Party and SV propose a conversion of the income system that reintroduces full basic grants and removes the government's structure of structural criteria that distinguish between so-called voluntary and involuntary small municipalities. We believe that this is necessary in order to follow up the decision to provide us with an income system that offers equivalent opportunities to develop welfare services for the inhabitants, regardless of the local community structure. This is also the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party agree with us and should, on the basis of the supported proposal – at least I believe so. The government has carried out a revision of the district index. This is used both in the calculation of the regional grants and when Norway negotiates the scope of district aid with ESA. The government states that the budgetary impact of the changes will not be made until 2020, but that new indices will be taken into account in the renegotiations with ESA on a differentiated employer’s fee. The proposal for changes to the regional index has been consulted, but neither the consultation note nor opinions have been published on the Ministry’s website. However, the KS’s opinion has been announced. It is very critical and asks for further consideration of the weighting and selection of indicators before establishing the district index. The Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, promotes a proposal asking the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for changes in the district index before the revised index is put into use in the income system or for other purposes, such as: as a basis for negotiations with ESA. This means that ESA cannot be recorded on a revised district index basis until it has been submitted to the Stortinget. In my opinion, this should be obvious, but obviously it is not for the sitting government. The government also provides for a restatement of the criteria for calculating the cost-balancing of the income system. Reference is made to the fact that light-powered municipalities and counties will be drawn slightly less in the cost equalisation process, while heavy-powered municipalities and counties will be added slightly less – again a redistribution between peripherality and the centre. This is evident from the impact we have asked for from the ministry. Not least for county municipalities, it is a significant redistribution. A majority of the Committee – the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV – points this out and says it is unfortunate and that these parties do not support the change. I assume that the department is aware of this, and that therefore we do not find this proposal in the state budget for the autumn. The government is adding up to adjust next year's income frameworks by between 2.6 billion. kr and 3,2 brd. kr. It produces an income growth of between 0,7 and 0,9 pst, which is significantly lower than in previous years. Within the crop is 300 million. kr justified by ear-marked transfers. Several inhabitants and changes in population composition will require 1.4 billion. SEK, pension expenditure increased 650 million. kr and in addition, the discovery of the new pediatric staffing standard. KS says it is underfunded with approx. 450 million. kr for 2019. We also do not know whether the transfer of responsibility for ready-to-print patients in the field of drugs and psychiatry is fully funded. The reality is that the government requires municipalities to perform their tasks within a reduced framework. Only during the last few years of conversion of the grant to resource-intensive users measures have municipalities received an additional cost of 700 million. kr. The county councils are offered a zero settlement. The framework transfers are proposed to increase the range minus/plus 100 million. kr. The size has recently concluded that there is a need for a lift for maintenance on the county roads. The community proposition doesn't make any sense. The centre party believes it is wrong to feed the municipality sector. It simply means a reduction in the well-being of the population. New requirements for municipalities will be covered within existing frameworks and will affect other sectors. As the care sector is the largest, the elderly tend to have to pay, for example: for the standard of service in the kindergarten. The central batch proposes to increase the frames in the range of 3 to 4 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. Within this increase, we want to find money for a lift that gives the counties the opportunity to take back some of the maintenance run on the county roads. In the autumn of 2017, the size made two clear decisions requiring the government to assume that any municipal mergers during this ageing period should be based solely on voluntary activity and that the income system for municipalities should ensure equivalent opportunities to develop the service provision for the inhabitants and not be used as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform. I can't see that the government is following this – neither in terms of the income system, nor in terms of the municipal reform. Two proposals for the review of the income system of the municipalities in the suspension are proposed. Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are asking the government to set up a selection. The Central Party, the Labour Party and the SV also take into account the conclusions of the General Decision of 2017 and request that the mandate assume that the distribution of income and expenditure is to provide an equivalent basis for services, irrespective of the municipal structure, and that distance disadvantages are compensated. We follow Storting's assumptions, which were made a few months ago, where the Christian People's Party also participated in the premise of government policy. Now the Christian People's Party has hopeed by the majority, thus bridging the opportunity to ensure fair income development. Has the party changed its mind? It could have been good to know – for us on the Stortinget, but above all for people and local politicians around the country. I would also like to show that in the wake of the municipal reform, we have received a number of border adjustment cases in which it is suggested that some large parts of a municipality be transferred to another municipality. The current handling of these matters is not satisfactory. That is why we are proposing this today. I finally take up the suggestions that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e233	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e240	To the right, it is important to have strong municipalities, because we want to provide important services to municipalities, to have services close to the population. So we think it is positive when the Ministry of Health and Health has now demanded that from 2018 we have doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, midwives and health sisters – and from 2020 also ergoterapeut, psychologist and dentist – as part of the municipal service offer. The centre party is, of course, skeptical – not to say the contrary – of municipal mergers, even in the case of the smallest municipalities, of which 120 have less than 3000 inhabitants. My question to the Center Party is whether the Centre Party feels confident that the service we describe can be provided by the small municipalities in the future as well – or does the Centre Party want to have a smaller service offer, fewer tasks, in the municipalities? If so, does the Center Party have the money to pay? That's a lot more than three to four billion. kr included in the year’s proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e247	The centre lot is occupied by the services provided to the inhabitants. The smallest municipalities provide these services in an excellent way through intermunicipal cooperation. We are not concerned that there should be a psychological position in each municipality. We are concerned that there should be satisfactory provision of services to the population, preferably through inter-municipal cooperation, which provides larger and better professional environments. The central party is not against the merger. Now all the municipalities have done an investigation work. Most people have concluded that they are more efficient and better able to solve these problems for their citizens by continuing as their own municipality. We respect that decision in the municipalities. With regard to new tasks for municipalities: what has come so far is largely notarius publicus, wedding rights and environmental responsibility for vegetable washing. For my municipality — 2000 inhabitants — and for most other municipalities in Norway, none of these tasks require a different municipal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e256	I want to follow up a bit where the representatives now left off. The centre party has worked a lot against the local and central reform. Community reform is a reform that is needed to enable municipalities to provide good services. We know that there are going to be difficult times for the municipalities in the future, and in the future you have to streamline. It is not clear that large municipalities provide the best services – we can certainly agree on that – but in order to have robust, good and strong municipalities, especially economically robust municipalities, most people probably see a need. We have also experienced that municipalities that have fought to stand alone, just after they have made a decision on it, have come to Stortinget and asked for more money to remain alone. The question is: how will the Central Party actually strengthen service provision in the districts – without increasing taxes and without investing in the community reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e267	The truth that is being tested is that it is the major municipalities that are the most effective and that provide the best service offer, there is no evidence for that. I hope the representative can show that he has evidence that the smallest municipalities have a lower service offer or operate less efficiently. On the contrary, it is probably the small municipalities in Norway that have received the price for good municipal operation, the price for having very good services for their inhabitants. The central party is not against the merger, but we are against the coercion that the government has been operating for many years now, and that they have obviously planned to continue with. We're just looking at what's happening to the income system now, where you have to force the little ones together, because they get more to drive the municipality for. We see it in the border adjustment cases that have been answered by the statesmen around the last week, where one has to eat pieces of the smallest municipalities, just to force them into new merger processes with the neighbouring municipality. Forced merger is against the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e274	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e279	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur, both for a very good job in getting to a position and for a good post. It's possible to agree very much with many of the considerations that have been made there. The municipalities are a supporter of the rule of people and the welfare community. Most of the inhabitants of Norway use municipal and county welfare services every day. Children go to kindergarten and school. Youth takes secondary education. New parents are at the health center. Older people need a nursing home, and many of them also need care at home. This is why the Workers' Party puts a strengthened community economy and increased commitment to good schools, safe care for the elderly and good health services in front of all major tax cuts to those who have the most in the past. When we see that the government is heading towards a teacher crisis in much of the country, we think it's the wrong recipe to separate the teachers we have. Then it takes a bet to get more teachers across the country. Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in. The key to that success is that there are little differences between people. It hasn't come of itself. It is a result of a will over many years to use policy instruments to balance unfair differences between people. A right for all to an equivalent education is one of the most important assumptions. The fact that everyone in Norway has the possibility of a free school, and also a higher education, is actually a political priority. We have built a common public school, with adapted training for individuals, over many years. The children's haillift is another example. A public offer with maximum prices ensures equivalent offers to children throughout the country, is a good preparation for school and helps to equip children for the rest of their lives. The government now chooses to introduce a standard of manpower and imposes new demands on municipalities, without providing funds, and so one week after we legislate on the requirement for full funding of new reforms. There are many examples of how we have built this welfare society. But what characterizes the solutions is that there are universal offers, they are within the economic reach of all, and they are equivalent regardless of where you live in the country. Such solutions give everyone an opportunity to realize their ambitions, their dreams and their goals, and it's not just wrong the few, the ones that have the most from before. It's good for the individual, and not least it's good for the nation – for our community. With policy instruments and the use of private and public solutions, we have stoned our way into creating one of the world's best societies. We have used commercial interests, we have used the market, and not least we have used public solutions as instruments – whichever gave the best solutions for the inhabitants of the country. But here, the Workers' Party separates the layers with the three right parts of the government. In the government statement, the government is very clear that it wants to ensure a level playing field between the public and private sectors – not because it necessarily provides better services to people, but because the aim is to get more private into the community arena, as the government puts it. Where other parties have a more pragmatic relationship with private providers within the public sector, this government makes it an ideological matter. The market and facilitating commercial interests are no longer an instrument; it has become an objective in itself. It is to make the market out of the widest possible sectors. At the same time, the government will not commit itself to strengthening the local economy in order to further develop the welfare offer that has provided the basis for the good society we have. There are no such obligations in the Government Platform. Instead, we see a policy in which the government tightens up the possibilities of, for example, using property taxes to further develop communities. The government continues on the mantra that structural changes in order to increase productivity are the way to go, but does not in any way clarify what benefits it will actually bring to the inhabitants of the municipalities concerned. The country faces several major challenges. Many of them greatly affect the municipalities, because it is in the municipalities that people live their lives, it is the municipalities that are the most important player in providing the daily offer – the basic offer that school for everyone, health care and safe care when needed, is. In that case, there is no answer to a policy that primarily regards welfare services as a potential market place. Then we need a policy based on further developing and strengthening Community solutions for all, a plan to further develop and maintain one of the world's best societies. Resources are required. It requires money, it requires people, and it requires an infrastructure. After looking at the government's plans for the municipal economy in 2018 and 2019 as a whole, there is no need to be optimistic on behalf of the municipalities. The total real growth in the free income of municipalities for these two years is 0 pst. It also confirms the government's response to questions from Stortinget. Municipalities face major challenges and investment needs. The government responds with zero growth and tightens up the ability to collect property taxes. So, after the municipalities have paid for the increase in costs they have to pay, there is nothing left to improve the quality of the services. Then there will be a demand for more efficiency. There is nothing new that the municipalities are streamlining. The municipalities are turning around and turning on every penny, they're doing the problems a better way year after year. But the government has no ambition to strengthen the assumptions and will not pursue a policy that will contribute to better services locally. A majority of the Stortinget is clear that the government's arrangement is too tight. The government must take the consequences and put more money on the table in the state budget for the autumn than what is now signaled in the municipal bill. In the Workers' Party, we have more ambitions on behalf of the municipalities than the government presents. Therefore, we strengthen the income of the local government sector by up to 4 billion. kr more than the government. It will give the municipalities room for, among other things. to bet on more teachers and early school efforts, to strengthen the staffing of the youngest in kindergartens and to expand care for the elderly with more places and employees. But it's about giving room to make local priorities. In February, the Committee of Experts on New Tasks presented its recommendation to the county councils. That report has been out for consultation, and we have a good basis for transferring tasks to the counties. The starting point of the working party is that the tasks transferred should provide citizens with the same good or better services as they do today, overall. In addition, we are committed to transferring tasks and powers that strengthen the counties as regional development actors. We will facilitate the exploitation of resources and assets in the different parts of the country better than today, and facilitate the creation of even more jobs. After all, those who are closest to the challenges are most often the ones who have the best solutions. The county councils are already playing an important role as service providers, community developers and planning authorities, and as a bonding point in administration. The expert committee report has received both support and critical comments in the hearings on the proposals and assessments they have made. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that we have an overall political assessment of the proposals, their feasibility and their consequences. Such an assessment must provide a basis for a fundamental clarification of the tasks and powers that can be transferred to the counties, and of any necessary need for further investigations, budgetary changes or any legislative changes, as well as for a time horizon for the transfer of each task and/or authority. And when the government, first with the Council of State Sanner and now with the Council of State of Malta, pulls its legs all the way in terms of filling the regional reform with content, it's not good enough. We are getting back to what was the real agenda of the Right Party and the Progress Party: trying to wind up the county councils and bring down the regionally elected level. So this government hasn't taken on board the fact that it's a minority government, and that the majority in this room wants a different policy. Therefore, the Stortinget today also lowers its foot and instructs the government to present its own case with an overall assessment to Stortinget, by 15 October at the latest. And from the point of view of the expert committee's investigation and consultation rounds, there is a good basis for doing that job. The big thing's patience with the government's extraction is over. Now that the county councils have been working on new borders in recent years — at the invitation of the government — they also need to clarify their tasks and powers. Regional reform must be filled with content, if not the whole process and the intention to drag new county boundaries away from work. Now the government must also deliver on what the majority want. With this I address the proposals No. 2 and 3, such as The working party is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e334	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e342	It's quite alarming to hear how the Workers' Party is tricking with numbers. We heard it in the post of the representative Sivertsen, and we heard it throughout the election campaign, where the Workers' Party promised us 15 billion. kr in increased taxes to people and businesses, if they only came to power. Later, the Workers' Party has gone back on its tax increase promise, but has later opened up new tax increases. But now leave it. Even when it comes to community economics, the Labour Party trickles with numbers. If we stick to the facts, the average growth in free income per capita was 0.6 pst. when the red-green fell, towards 1.1 pst. with a civil government. It's almost a double, and it gives municipalities better conditions to provide good services to people. But then it's my simple question to the representative Sivertsen: What's the highest growth – is it 0.6 pst., or is it 1.1 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e351	The most eye-catching thing here is that the representative takes the liberty of accusing others of tricking them with numbers. Let me refer to what the municipal minister has answered questions to the Stortinget, that the income growth in the period 2005–2013 has been 1.8 pst. on average, under the Solberg Government, from 2013 to 2019, 1,4 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e358	I have not yet heard the representative Sivertsen reply to what I am really asking him. It's a fact that the average real growth in the local economy has been greater with this government than it was under the red-green government. All the horrors of the Workers' Party that came throughout the previous election campaign, and the election campaign before it again, about the local economy and that it was going to be so bad in Kommune-Norway, have been put to shame. There have never been fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list, and I have not heard that I have received an answer from the representative Sivertsen to the question: What is the highest growth – is it 0.6 pst., as it was under the Workers' Party, or is it 1.1 pst., as it has been under the bourgeois government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e363	You're not going to get it right if you repeat the wrong statements. Let me refer again to what was the answer when we examined what the growth of the municipal economy is, when we asked the representative's own municipal minister: in the period 2005–2013, average growth in free income was 1.8 pst. Under the government of Solberg it has been on average 1.4 pst. And if we base the total income growth for the years 2018 and 2019, according to data from the Ministry of Local Affairs, it becomes 0 pst. Of the three numbers, 1.8 pst. the highest figure, which was during the period of government Stoltenberg II.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e368	On 24 August, there was a report in the NRC where several of the municipalities involved in the pilot project with State funding of care services reported their experiences. In Hobøl they said: “We experience that the user is much more at the center, and that we can be able to shape the service in a completely different way than we could before.” Further: "As long as we make good decisions, we get paid for what we do. It becomes more predictable, and it doesn’t matter as much if we get ten users fewer or ten users.’ In Stjørdal they said: ‘We have gained a professional development, greater economic muscles and a better overview of what we are doing in the care sector.’ In Lillesand, it was said that the experiment has done more services at the right level. In addition, they said: ‘We have improved quality and a better system.’ We have seen several similar reports over the past few years. Nevertheless, among other things, The working party notes that ‘the attempt has received very poor reception in the municipalities and does not contribute to the development of care for the elderly’. What makes the Workers' Party, even without the evaluation being completed, find that the municipalities involved are wrong when they refer to their very good experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e395	The representative pointed out in his question what is the answer here – why do you feel it is positive? Well, because you've gotten bigger economic muscles, economic muscles you're missing with the government's arrangement. I understand that it feels more positive. Then there's the other principal aspects of this. Parental care is a responsibility imposed on the municipalities. We believe that this should, in principle, be a framework fund. This means that the municipalities themselves take responsibility for prioritizing within the framework given to them by the government. The assumption is that they have frameworks within which priority can be given. The representative's own government is failing to obtain it, cf. the answers I gave to the representative Holm Lønseth instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e402	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e407	There is a broad consensus in Norway that the municipal sector has an important role in the Norwegian welfare community. Local authorities represent both the production of services and the opportunities for citizens to take an active part in social development. The municipalities have played this important role since 1837, and we have recently adopted a new municipal law in this room. Today's debate is about local economy and service production. In the 2013 election campaign, we were reminded by the opposition that there was no way how crazy it would be if the bourgeois parties won the election in 2013. We won the election, we got a new government, fortunately – luckily for Kommune-Noreg and our inhabitants, because when we see the fasit, what the budget of the bourgeois parties has been given, we see a completely different result in the municipalities than the description given by the opposition. Even if the substitution of lines was the way she was, it has been a good increase in income in the last few years. With Erna Solberg in government, the real free income per capita has been about twice as high as under the Stoltenberg II government. Even if the representative from the Labour Party instead weighted the municipal economy as a whole, it is quite right that my colleague Lønneth from the Right said that growth has been twice as large per capita – and that is what is right to measure. The community structure that we are adopting today helps municipalities to continue their good work for the inhabitants and to provide solid services within schools, care for the elderly, and not least for the protection of children. The government provides for a real growth in the free income of the municipal sector in 2019 of between 2.6 billion. kr and 3,2 brd. kr. It's strange to hear the representative Heidi Greni, where she regrets that we're leaving the districts and giving to the cities. So that's the exact opposite. Free income in cities is only about half of the smallest municipalities. The real growth that is coming corresponds to a growth of approx. 0,7-0.9 pst. If the demographic costs of municipalities in 2019 are about the same size as in 2018, the growth of free income will cover both demographics, pension costs and commitments to growth. In addition, there will be room to strengthen service provision beyond that – and it will be before we take any efficiency considerations. The growth in the free income of county councils must be seen in the context of the fact that county councils expect a decline in demographic expenditure, as a result of changes in the composition of the population. Of course, this isn't the same crop. The good results we see in the municipalities mean that we get a record low number of municipalities on the ROBEK list. When we took over, we wore approx. 50 municipalities. Now we can assume that when the year is over, there are 13 pieces on this list. But it's not just in the municipalities that it's going well. The labour market is better, more people get jobs in the private sector, it's optimistic, and the Norwegian economy is in trouble. It comes from a great and great transition in Norwegian business. This means that the good conversion work started by the municipalities must also continue. We need to get the best possible and most efficient services from each dollar we use. There is a good reason for many municipalities to continue their community consultation. In 2017, the new income system entered into force. The change resulted in a good and more neutral and fair income system, even if it is not perfect. It removed some obstacles to municipal convergence and is now more neutral. An income system will always need to be evaluated and adjusted, and the Right will ensure that the next evaluation will provide a wide selection. A lot of people in this community proposition have been mentioned. I'm glad there's a joint committee that wants to improve the suspension scheme. When the government took over power in 2013, this was a scheme that had benefited from, because she was poor. The government then expanded its debt for 40 years, and now the planning and involvement of the county councils is large. But there are still some challenges to funding, which the Stortinget now wants to improve. Many people are eager to use the system to replace a ferry with a bridge or tunnel. Along the coast is the motto: It is better with tolls on a bridge for 40 years than tolls on an eternal ferry. Once the toll projects have been paid out, the available resources will benefit all counties, so this is a win-win case both for the first few years and in the long term for all other counties. I must also express the scepticism of the representative, Mr Grenis, about the state-of-the-art measures. It's a historic trade bet, with over 1 000 billion. kr. So we've increased the budget by over 60 pst. since 2013, and in the period 2014–2017 we increase the vows by 4.5 pst. to the counties. In addition, tunnel protection and scaffolding are provided. In 2018, it will be nearly 2 billion. kr in this budget. So we're in a good path. I would like to address the proposal that we are making.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e432	The representative of Ove Trellevik has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e439	Members of the Government Party The Progress Party – they have received support from the Right – have argued on several occasions that disposable income for the municipalities of 2018 in the form of an unexpected increase in tax revenue can be used to hire more, increase fixed operating costs, and that municipalities can remove the property tax, a tax very many municipalities have had to introduce in the last four years. Does the representative Trellevik and Right believe that this is a long-term and sustainable way of steering the local economy? Puts the Right and the representative Trellevik behind the invitation to the municipalities to increase fixed long-term operating costs with short-term disposable income, which is unexpectedly increased tax revenue actually is, as I think the representative Trellevik is fully aware when we see his earlier... [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e444	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e450	It's going very well in Kommune-Noreg. These have not been better results since the 1990s. It also has our historical good figures for the period 2015-2017, and the number of municipalities on the ROBEK list is record low. The fact that some municipalities now experience a real downturn is not because of a cut in transfers, but, as the representative mentions, there is an exceptionally high tax intake in some periods. Different municipalities do different priorities, and there are different things you want to achieve. But the economic space has increased, and the municipalities are forced to look at their economic space in relation to their potential. I don't think it's up to Stortinget and me to advise on how to dispose of their funds – I just register that in Kommune-Noreg things are going well. There are ambitions to remove the tax, and some municipalities want to add it, precisely because of local priorities. [[The President clubs]] I would like one to continue in the future. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e457	The President is aware that 1 minute goes very fast, but speaking time is 1 minute. That is why, unfortunately, the President has to cancel.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e462	The right does not support the majority proposal, where we ask the government to come up with its own case by 15 October, with an overall assessment of the transfer of tasks to the new counties, based on the expert committee's investigation. At the same time, it seems that the Right in this room is nervous that this matter should run into the sand, as they ask the government in a separate note to draw up an overview of the tasks that might be transferred. It's not so strange they're worried, because we see that the problem transfers now go the other way. An example is the water management proposed to move from the county to the state. The question is whether the Right continues to believe that there should be a substantial transfer of tasks from state to county councils and that the proposals of the Committee of Experts should be followed up. Will representatives in this Chamber put pressure on the government and individual ministries to ensure that the majority's ambitions for county reform are implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e471	Right-wing would like to support well the cooperation we have with this regional reform and the task transfers. There must be no doubt that the Right supports up below it. The government is busy with much of what is listed in the Hagen report, but there are also other tasks that are mature to discuss whether to move to the state. The reason why we are involved in some of the comments, but not the proposal, has its natural explanation. When it comes to a matter of its own, it's either a staging message or a staging proposition. This is the list of the distribution instructions. For me, it is impossible to understand that one should rush through such an important matter, which concerns many thousands of people and jobs, while one should suddenly have a new round of hearings. It is not possible to get a three-month hearing and at the same time deliver it in a good way on October 15. But we want to be there and do this in a solid and good way. Right, too, it's an advantage to get a lot of balls in the air -- I was just saying -- and look at the action space and the possibilities that lie here. But hastening this forward is not a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e478	The representative Trellevik draws a rose-red picture of the municipal economy. He boasts that many municipalities are no longer on the ROBEK list. But I've read the Health Inspectorate's reports on how the services for some of those who need the most are looking. The Health Inspectorate's report last year, on life, on people with developmental disabilities, shows that in 45 out of 57 municipalities, there is a serious crime. This means that there are major service gaps for some of the most disadvantaged. It is not so difficult to imagine that some of these services are not going to be as they should, precisely because the municipalities are saving and saving to get out of the ROBEK list. How does the representative of Trellevik feel that municipalities should be able to address these major deficiencies that require staff resources and measures without increasing the local authority sector until next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e483	Now there's an increase in the framework of next year, given that all the presidents are turning on. We actually don't know that until the calculations are done. But there are many municipalities that are struggling to meet all the requirements, expectations and requirements that come. There is no doubt about it. It was also mentioned here that there are still 120 municipalities with less than 3,000 inhabitants. I myself have our spokesmen in a small municipality, and it is unlikely difficult and demanding to meet the state’s expectations for resource-requiring services – among others. health services. I want to encourage the municipalities who are struggling with this, to take the next conversation. It is quite possible to propose a municipal consultation in the coming period as well, precisely to strengthen the services in the areas of responsibility of the municipalities, also in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e488	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e493	People's everyday lives depend on their municipality being able to see everyone and to meet the challenges and needs of individuals. Municipal reform is very important if we want all communities to survive, and to ensure equivalent services with a high level of competence across the country. A group of experts has been awarded earmarked grants in the municipal sector and 247 different grant schemes were identified. The entire Committee supports the fact that a reduction in the number of earmarked grants will provide more appropriate management. Nevertheless, we experience frequent opposition proposals to designate new areas. Within the vast majority of areas, they have strong indications that the Storting must control detail, bet, eartag, or legislate. Reading these comments is in stark contrast to the debate we had in this room on new municipal law. In recent years, municipalities have had good economic development, as many figures and statistics clearly show. The municipal survey confirms that the economy of the municipalities is the best in modern times. Over 80 pst. by municipalities, on average, had better operating results over the last four years than in the previous four-year period. About the same number have larger buffers in the operating accounts. In comments in this setting, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are trying to reduce the increased areas of action of the municipalities, while believing that the economy needs to go beyond school, care for the elderly and welfare services. The voters should note the inability of these batches to give priority to the most important tasks. At the same time, it is quite sad to read that the same three parties do not have concrete plans for change. Their answer to all the challenges is to be against change and to give more money. The municipalities have a significant efficiency potential, and if they had only streamlined by 0.5 pst, this would release a total of 1.2 billion. kr in 2019. The fact that many municipalities operate good services without property taxes shows that municipalities have a very different focus on efficiency and priority. Good operational performance in recent years has led to a sharp decline in the number of municipalities in economic imbalances. There is now a record low number of municipalities in ROBEK, and by the end of the year there will probably only be 13 municipalities left in the register. This shows that the municipalities have both done a good job, and that they have been well-trained by the financial arrangement adopted by the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Net operating surplus in the municipal sector as a whole for 2017 is estimated at 3,8 p.p., which is above the recommended level of the Technical Calculation Committee for the Municipal and Municipal Economy. The recommendation from TBU is about 2 pst. The level of investment in the municipal sector has been high over several years, in line with national policy objectives. The state has, among other things: through investment grants and interest-rate compensation stimulated municipalities and counties to increase their investments. Increased cooperation between the State and the local government sector on digitisation, clear language and other measures promoting user orientation, innovation and efficiency is facilitated. Cooperation between the KS, Diffi and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has also been established to eliminate time thieves in the municipalities. The main resources of the municipalities are the people who work there. Municipalities must organise their services in a way that makes them attractive as jobs, with more full-time jobs, permanent jobs, offers of continuing training and exciting professional environments. This is and will continue to be the biggest challenges of the smallest municipalities. The first phase of the municipal reform has now been completed, and the work on further municipal mergers continues. Members of the community shall contribute to community mergers where desired. Means are important to continue the community reform. Some merging municipalities receive a reduction in the total value of the income system, which is not in line with the intention behind the aggregations. The Progress Party is therefore part of a proposal asking the Government to make sure that merged municipalities that suffer losses due to reductions in housing criteria or other unintended effects of the income system are compensated for this. The Government proposes that the income system be evaluated and reviewed every four years. The Progress Party, together with the Right and the Christian People's Party, is therefore promoting a proposal that the government should establish a wide-ranging public sample to review the income system of the municipalities. The government announces that they will present a revised income system for the county councils in the municipal bill for 2020. The county councils and other interested parties will have the opportunity to make input into this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e525	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e530	I hope that the Progress Party is as concerned with good and safe care for the elderly as the Workers' Party, that new care facilities are built and municipalities are helped to expand modern care for the elderly throughout the country, that employees are charged with new skills, that a lot of new health professionals are employed, and that new hospitals are built throughout the country. The progress party promised that it would not be on money when they entered the government offices. Government designation has ended with a test scheme that has been poorly received, including right-wing municipalities. In panic for enough a lifting break, the Progress Party chooses to increase the scope of only the six municipalities that are present, but adds up to zero growth for the entire Municipality of Norway. Is it so to understand that the Advance Party's election vow on good care for the elderly has gone from good care for the elderly to the most, to just a few?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e537	It is still the case that in this room there is a majority that the municipalities are responsible for caring for the elderly. But we've just got a state testing system to make it clear that we could get equal services across the country if we had national guidelines and state funding. Then I see that the Workers' Party wants to remove the state system, because they see that it works, and then you're a little afraid that it should be made visible. What has been important for the Progress Party is to provide good municipal economy over the years, and it shows all the figures that the municipalities have. They have been given every opportunity to give priority to care for the elderly. Unfortunately, however, we see that many municipalities do not prioritize it. It's up to them to give priority, we can't force the municipalities unless we take full responsibility, and that's not the majority of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e545	The Elder Minister has said something such as that the municipalities have enough money, but they spend it on town halls and swimming pools instead of on the elderly. The government itself indicates that income growth for the coming years is lower than in the last years. In addition, new costs are being borne by municipalities. The funding scheme for resource-intensive users has provided an additional cost of 700 million. kr, and the new staffing standard for kindergarten – which is not compensated – will amount to 450 million. kr next year. The committee hearing hearing bodies were very clear that they feared that it was the care of the elderly that would become the loser when this was to be financed. The municipalities have therefore incurred increased costs in several areas without compensation. Has the Progress Party obtained information that shows that municipalities have increased their spending on town halls and swimming pools in recent years? And how does the Progress Party believe that municipalities should be able to comply with the staffing standard for kindergarten without affecting the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e550	Local authorities have a completely different priority, and this is evident, especially with regard to kindergarten standards. Some municipalities will not get any increased expenses at all because they actually have a high crew initially, while other municipalities have low crews. We have such differences all over the country. What is important to us is to ensure that the overall level of income for municipalities is good. We've been doing that for years. So let's say the Center Party wants to find some items that have become a little bit lower. When you add up the whole pot and see that the municipalities get a financial boost over and over again, it gives you the opportunity to prioritize. I know many municipalities that have given priority to care for the elderly. My own municipality built a culture house for 1 billion. NOK on which we sit and pay. While it is clear that this priority is at the forefront of care for the elderly, it was a political priority. The progress party in the municipalities will give priority to care for the elderly in front of such things.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e557	The representative, Kjønaas Kjos, said that the government was able to give priority to the most important thing, and it is perhaps the 1 600 richest, each of which has received over half a million dollars in tax relief, while we know that many young people – young people – still live in hospitals in the municipalities. It's a long-term problem. I have seen that the Progress Party has been busy with it, even so busy that they have pulled the NRK and fucked around the country to show how bad it is. But when it comes to dealing with the local economy – where SV proposes that this should no longer be allowed, that the government should take care of it – I cannot say that the Progress Party supports it at all in this position, or that they have done so before. Does the representative of Kjønaas Kjos really think that if we don't put a legal ban on this, it'll be over?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e562	It's been 20 years since the Stortinget decided that young people should not live in nursing homes, so what we decide here obviously doesn't work when it's the municipalities that do their own priorities. Again: This is for the municipalities. We must ensure that our own local politicians have this on the agenda when they sit on the municipal board. That's why it's up to all parties here on Stortinget to get local politicians to be concerned about this. It is not difficult to implement, but then everyone has to focus on it. In the Progress Party we focus on it in the municipalities, and I would like to welcome the representatives of SV to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e567	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e572	Municipalities and county councils are doing some of the most important things for the community and the communities in which we live. That's why it's a value choice for SV that we put the community of the many inhabitants in front of the tax havens to the few and the richest. That is why SV prioritises the local economy the highest of all parties, and we have done so every year. It's simply because we know that this community is one of the most important things to build a good life for individuals, and to make sure that together we get the best result as a society. It is not the school student, assistant nurse or grandmother who is too expensive, there is a lack of courage and ability to prioritize what is most important, to distribute goods and burdens more fairly and to put a major offensive against economic crime, because that is what braves well-being — and threatens it in the future. But it's strong economic interests that many people are a little afraid of. There are many things that go well in Norway, but one thing that is dangerous now is that the financial differences are increasing, and we see it especially among children. We see that when we look at the statistics presented in this proposition, on social assistance. What does the government do with that? Nothing – not in the local economy, not otherwise. There is reason to strengthen the municipal economy for the elderly, for the benefit of those with disabilities, for the children who go to kindergarten, for those who go to school, for a good cultural life and for the municipality to be a good partner for business – that they should be able to do all the things in a modern society that we expect. If the local economy is too weak, the community gets weak and bad, and then the way is open to those who want to privatize this even more. For SV, welfare tasks, such as training and care, are different from business activities. They have their reasons for the value base, solidarity, community and justice, and the pursuit of commercial results shall not be an objective of the welfare services. I see that the government also writes that it will strive for better use of taxpayers' money. So will SV. That is why we believe that the taxpayers' money that has been allocated to, for example. kindergarten, child protection or school, should go to just that – not for business benefits. Nor shall tenders be used to push forward cuts in pensions and salaries for well-being heroes — those who do these important jobs. They don't have a penny too much in pay or retirement any of them. There are a lot of areas you could talk about in this community economy – and I'm going to pick up a few. We have received feedback from the municipalities that they are struggling with the resource-intensive services, especially because they are now being held responsible for more and more very ill patients being printed out. In many ways, these services require staffing as a hospital home and competence. The government has cut off this system, and there have also been some administrative constraints that make this difficult. This is a mechanism that needs to be strengthened, because this is meeting very well the costs that cannot otherwise be captured by the income system. User-controlled personal assistant has received many feedback that it is not working. Unfortunately, it has become worse since the Stortinget legalized it. Here, changes need to be made so that there is no difference. Regulations need to enter quickly, and the system should move into the back of the people, because it is a tool. Young people in nursing homes are still a problem. Much of this is due to the fact that the municipalities do not have the resources they should have. It is fine that fewer are in ROBEK, but many of the municipalities have cut violently in some of these services – and perhaps especially to those who do not have the right to speak for themselves. To high school and county councils: Here we see that there are fewer students in many district councils. That means that the students get a very, very narrow education offer, maybe just general science again, and maybe some of them almost don't get it at all and have to move on at least 15-year-old. Therefore, SV suggests that the government should investigate a grant scheme in order to look at this. It is serious that young people in the district of Norway will not get a broader offer than they are doing now. And all the fun lines -- art and crafts, music and all this -- are the first to be laid down. That is why we are proposing – and a number of other suggestions in the vote – that I would like to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e591	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e598	In the daytime, SV may appear to have a slightly unusual relationship with the investigation manual. In this case, the party has been very concerned to know what kind of tasks the government will move out to the new regions, and has set a deadline that makes it difficult for the government to send the proposal to the hearing. In the case of county names recently, however, the government criticised the government for the lack of consultation. But here they choose to do the same thing. Enough about that. My question to Andersen's representative is: Since SV is so impatient about the tasks the government wants to move out, I wonder what kind of concrete tasks her party wants to move out to the new regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e605	At first I want to say that the government had first thought about these tasks, was a very brief consultation round – which SV asked to be a little longer so that everyone would be allowed to comment. The government heard that, and I'm glad. In the settings from the previous period, SV has been very clear on many tasks that we want to move. Perhaps one of the most important things we care about is that county councils get tasks that can give them muscles to do regional development work. Particular attention is paid to the development of nutrition. This applies to transportation. It's about culture. And this is not least about raising your skills. This is why we are now promoting proposals for increased grants to be able to pursue decentralised higher education – much more than it is today. And the county councils are a good organizer for that. It will be possible to serve both the population and the business community throughout their territory, and these are the most important developmental muscles the county municipalities can have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e612	Based on the post we've heard, and the SV's comments seem like the party has an exaggerated belief that tax incentives can solve the vast majority of problems. The blue parties want to meet the future with transformation and technology to enable municipalities to meet the challenges of the future. So it turns out that even though we've given 18 billion. NOK in tax relief, you've taken in $65 billion. kr more. And it's not that tax relief has the consequences that SV's representative points out. But I wonder if there are any other possibilities for SV at all than just tax incentives to enable municipalities to deliver better services in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e617	Firstly, we have asked the government if they can document the effects of their tax havens. They said they can't. So no one can prove that this has worked as the representative says. Secondly, I think that in the case of 95 pst. Of the population who have received a $10 a day in tax relief, most of them would probably find that there was a lack of care for the elderly, that we did not have so much failure in helping young people in need of child protection, help for those with developmental disabilities, or help for the elderly who are not now getting the help they are going to have. That solidarity I think people have, that you can join in and contribute a little more to get this done. I understand the Progress Party doesn't have it. They have also distributed the largest money to the richest and freshest people. There's an SV completely disagreed. We want to give priority to those who need public help in front of the richest and freshest in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e625	I then record that there were no proposals other than increased taxes as the solution to future challenges for municipalities. We know that the municipalities are doing well. We see that the government's policy is working. You have a good community economy. There are also a lot of municipalities with a lot of profits. When we warn that we want to cut property taxes, there are a lot of red municipalities run by the Workers' Party and SV, and say that even if they go with billions of profits, the services of the inhabitants are the first thing they're going to cut in. I think that's a strange angle of incidence. Why will the red municipalities not also give priority to services for the inhabitants? If we're going to cut the tax, why is it the service offer in the municipalities that always has to be cut first?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e630	Firstly, SV has submitted tax proposals that provide a proper cut in the tax for those who earn less than NOK 600 000. Secondly, if you go for financial crime and tax fraud, there's an incredible amount of money. There are many billions of people who are being cheated by us all, and who are ruining well-being, and who are really a threat to the welfare state. I would like the Progress Party to be a little more concerned with that instead of facilitating people to sneak their money away in tax havens and not be part of paying to the community. As far as property taxes are concerned, SV has proposed that it be made more fair, while the Government and the Advance Party have proposed thank you to those who have the largest cabins and the largest houses. They're going to get less tax. There have never been so many municipalities that have had to collect property taxes, as when the Progress Party has been in government. So here there's a much more need for SV's policy, which gives larger framework transfers and municipalities the opportunity to give priority to the most important tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e637	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e642	I want to give tribute to the municipal minister, who has delivered a municipal proposition that, as far as I can see, has not triggered massive discussions. There is little discussion so far because there is a proposition with good numbers and positive prospects for Kommune-Norway. For the left, which in its time also outside the government offices fought well with the previous government for a municipal and regional reform, it is nice to note that there is considerable room in the proposition. The economy of Kommune-Norway is solid, and it is added to the growth of the free revenues in 2019. But the positive framework still paints a situation in Kommune-Norway in the future that we have to take over. We are getting older and older and fewer to deal with, fewer to produce and finance the services that municipalities are going to provide to their inhabitants. In the years to come, small municipalities will face major challenges in providing the services for which citizens are entitled and entitled. Many, but not many, municipalities make a great effort to respond to these challenges. Municipality-Norway is in a big change. In recent years, we have seen mergers that will lead to more robust municipalities, municipalities that will be equipped to face the challenges of the future. Municipal Norway shall also have exciting tasks in the future. But with generalist municipalities in mind, one should know that in all the tasks that the municipalities could and should have had, the smaller municipalities place some kind of constraint. In larger municipalities, this could be an opportunity to tackle at the same time bigger challenges than they do in relation to the small ones per day. Former Minister of State Jan Tore Sanner made a solid effort to get local and regional reform up. By stressing the importance he has had for the success of the reform, there is an opportunity to highlight the impressive efforts of the current Minister of Local Affairs to continue the work. Bringing together hundreds of cultures and tens of thousands of people in Norway is challenging. In the middle of it, it's hard to see what the purpose of this is, with what it's then focused on. Municipal reform is a good municipal reform and will continue. My driving force is the desire to make the municipalities better equipped to take care of their inhabitants in the future, and what is then included. That's why it's right that the government continues with its financial incentives. I think we will in the future get reports from merged municipalities that this is really going pretty well. The neighbors may not be so different to us anyway, maybe we share some of the same view also with regard to the operation of the municipalities, which is best for the inhabitants, and perhaps it is not so bad that the town hall is not necessarily in the neighborhood. This is also about getting municipalities up to a size that makes everyday life easier, more predictable and not least robust enough for the inhabitants. The aim of local and regional reform is for stronger regions with increased local autonomy. The driving force of the left has always been to give citizens more power to their own choices, but first the regions have to be large enough for the tasks. In February, we received the expert committee’s recommendation on the decentralisation of government tasks. The Hagen committee report is exciting reading – exciting because you get an overview that immediately makes me think about the potential for task transfer. And let it be clear: the left stood in the front and fought through a regional reform. For this reason, we also believed and believe that what the Hagen Committee outlines, it is the new county municipalities that are able to take on significant tasks, much more significant than a possible two-level solution. Here, there are real opportunities for the county to have a far greater and more significant responsibility than they have today. But of course you have to find tasks like monks. It is necessary to find the tasks that can be relocated, and in such a way that the county municipality can follow up and offer the same or better solutions than one sees today. There is no point in hiding that the Left is eager to get this in place as quickly as possible. I also want to pay tribute to the municipal minister for what she has followed up. So it's left to see what's now coming out of it. However, the majority of the population has a lot to say about how this is presented, and I want an overall assessment. I think it's good that the bulk of the population is eager, but one should not ignore the fact that it's the tasks that have to be in focus. Tasks will then be moved across departments, and I believe that the government will present this in a good overall overview in a good and appropriate way. In 2017, the new income system for municipalities entered into force. This facilitates the merger of municipalities — and significantly the rest of the country’s inhabitants — in a good way with regard to the new income system. Finally, I would like to mention a few words that I am pleased that we are now putting in place some new framework conditions for ferry services. This has been a struggle for the Left for many years, and I think that when the government gets this in place, that the cost of capital can also be covered, I am happy with it. The left will also support the proposal promoted by the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e665	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e670	In the past, the left has been clear on tasks for new regions and early clarifications were important. The problem now is that the Left in Government has lost grip on that very thing. The left now believes that the tasks can be delivered piece by piece and divided and without a holistic view. Today, the majority of the population directs the government to a single case for the Storting on new tasks for the regions. Is the Left-Representative Skelstad satisfied with the fact that the majority of the population now instructs the government with demands for a single case, as the Left has previously thought was reasonable, and will the Left-Vote for the proposal here in the Chamber today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e677	I am pleased that the Stortinget is eager to participate in and implement the regional reform, which I have been an avid supporter of for a long time, and the representative Lauvås is very aware of. I also share the view of Mr Trellevik here. I think it's important that we take the time that's needed, so that we get those problems that we can do in the best possible way. I believe that the representative of Mr Lauvås also agrees. And then I think it's good that Lauvås has now become enthusiastic about the regional reform. It greatly delights my heart, and I hope it also continues from the representative of Lauvås.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e682	It's sad to see that the Left, which was the biggest driver of new tasks for the states, is now kind of backing out. It was a prerequisite when we debated this last time in the hall, that the tasks should come as part of the municipal proposition that was presented in ours. Now this is just being pushed out in time and seems to run into the sand, so I am disappointed that the Left does not support the proposal that instructs the government on a separate matter to the Stortinget by 15 October. The Government has also proposed that responsibility for water supply be transferred from the county to the state. The proposal has been consulted and has received strong countermeasures. An overall municipal sector, the environmental movement, the trade unions and the municipalities concerned are opposed to the proposal. What is the reason why the Left supports this proposal to transfer tasks from the counties to the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e689	Now this has to be treated before it's clear where it's going to be. In principle, I am in order to get the most out-of-town, decentralised, as close as possible to the inhabitants, and that is also the whole idea behind the government's regional reform. Then I think it is wonderful, but also gratifying, that the representative Grini will be honoured by the regional reform. I think that's very happy, because it hasn't happened before in this room, and if the Center Party now, against assumption, should cheer up even a little bit more, we'll get an enthusiastic collapse. It greatly delights my heart, as I previously also replied to the representative Lauvås.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e694	The representative of Skjelstad is very good at the role of Kirsten poison knife for these coercive marriages. The rest of us wanted voluntary regional reform. But I expect that the left is also concerned with the tasks that the county councils have. We have now managed to stop moving higher education to the large municipalities, but even if you now merge, for example. Upland and Hedmark, which is my state, are going to be very large distances. What we also see is that the demography changes a lot, and there are very few young people left in parts of the counties. This means that the high-level offer is being severely reduced, and this means that county councils are reducing the scope of the offers. We have to deal with that somehow. SV is promoting suggestions about this now, to ensure that there is freedom of choice, and that no more students have to move on to the hub when they are 15. Does the Left support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e699	There is no doubt that demography is a challenge in some of our county municipalities. That's also what the government itself says in the proposition being presented. So that's not exactly what Andersen's representative said, that we got a partnership around it when we said no with regard to high school in the last period. We continued the red-green government then had been mantra for eight years. We continued that, there's nothing new there. But what Andersen is right about is that the secondary schools are cost-intensive when there is not enough student base, and then the county councils will also have to look at how they do this in the future. But there is every reason to be on guard against how this will develop in the future. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e705	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e710	If I had told the residents of the municipality of Vennesla that we were going to discuss the municipality proposal today, I am not so sure that it would have become a big kiosk. But I am absolutely sure that if I had said that we were going to discuss service production and the quality it keeps around in our municipalities and county municipalities, there would have been many more who had been concerned about it. The municipal bill adds to a sober growth in the municipal economy. We've had some good years, and one can slowly discuss who's best, but we probably have to realize that extraordinary tax revenue has also been involved in making that picture. There are no prospects for this, and it's going to be required to be sober. It's very easy just to say that one will inject more money; I've even seen numbers of 6 billion. kr here. For me, as a representative of an opposition party, it could have been very tempting to be part of this, but I think I'll save that exercise until it really needs to. I hope we don't get into a crisis. In this case, with exceptional tax revenues, you also have to look at the fact that there are few municipalities on the ROBEK list, and we all have to be happy about that. Some energy is used to raise the income system, and you're asked if the Christian People's Party has changed its mind. No, we haven't. We have said that the income system should be as neutral as possible, but that applies to both the district municipalities, those in the middle, the city municipalities and the large city municipalities. So you have to have at least three thoughts in your head at the same time here. The entire size agrees that a broad composite sample should be reduced. When we fell on the wording that we did, it's because we want the sample to work without telling us about the result in advance, because then we know what the discussions are. The proposal for a comprehensive approach to the tasks of the new county municipalities is an extremely important proposal for a decision. It has already been quoted from the pulpit that: «The government is asked to return to Stortinget by 15 October 2018 at the latest with a separate case with an overall assessment of the task transfers [[...]] It concerns tasks that can be phased out in 2020 and tasks that can be done later and that may need to be investigated. The counties are now awaiting clarification of new tasks and powers. Several of the counties are involved in demanding merger processes, and it is very important, democratically, to put this in place before the election campaign for the 2019 elections, so that the voters can put the candidates in charge of which line they have taken and which tasks to solve. Many attempts have been made to bring about reform. We've discussed the problems first and the map afterwards. Now we have the map first and the problems later. I really hope we succeed in this, because unfortunately we didn't succeed the last time. Not much came out of that attempt. I would also like to point out, as was also said in the change of line, that a loose proposal is being promoted today from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party, which reads: ‘The Government is asked to suspend its planned changes to the water management/regulation so that this can be seen in the context of a joint action on tasks for the new county municipalities.’ The objective must be that things should be decentralised – at least not that things should be centralised from a popular level to a bureaucratic level. Some municipalities experience a loss through that income system because of the unintended effects of the criteria. Before the municipal reform, it became clear that no one was going to lose on a merger. It is therefore important that it be cleaned up in this context, and the Committee has agreed on a decision to do so to ensure that the municipalities that are lost because of the housing criteria should not lose out on it. Compensation for machine taxes: it's not a rematch, but it's actually quite important that those who don't get re-accompanied should not lose their entire property tax base. The fifth is ferries. I am very pleased with the proposal that is in the matter today. It could go further, but we're going to be happy for what's available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e748	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e753	Unfortunately, it is a little difficult to follow the Christian People's Party in some cases in this community proposition. The game was, along with, among other things, The Centre Party, taking the decision in November 2017 that community mergers should take place exclusively on a voluntary basis, that the income system should not be continued, and that the new income system should ensure equivalent service production. In our position on the matter we are discussing today, the Christian People's Party is not behind a proposal asking the government to set down a broad public sample, with a clear mandate which implies that the distribution of income and expenditure is to provide an equivalent basis for services, in line with our decision of November 2017. Voluntary small municipalities will continue to be penalised in 2019 and there will be no basis for equivalent services between voluntary small and involuntary small municipalities. What is the reason why the Christian People’s Party no longer supports this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e760	I was in my post about the exact difference between the two suggestions. Firstly, it is about the open mandate, and secondly, we will not change the rules of the game along the way. That's why we're asking for a sample to be reduced. The goal might also be what the opposition says, that you have to get out equivalent, but we want a sample that outlines. The reason why we don't support it now is because we don't want to change the game rules along the way in a race.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e765	The representative Bransdal says that she might actually be willing to join the SV's proposal of 6 billion. kr more for the local government sector. It would have given her municipality $14 million. kr more. There is no doubt about it either, when you are going to provide care for the elderly and good services for people with developmental disabilities, for example, which we have now received reports that there are very large gaps in very many municipalities. The representative of Bransdal's party has been involved in giving huge tax credits to the richest and freshest in this country. I am a little stunned by the Christian People's Party's priorities and the values that underlie them. The representative Bransdal started by saying that we had discussed the quality of care, school, child protection and so on, people would have been more interested. There are many reasons for good quality, but you have to have employees to do the job. The question then is why the Christian People's Party chooses to give priority to the richest in front of the oldest and the sickest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e772	I have to remind Karin Andersen that the vast majority of the taxes on which the Christian People's Party has been involved are reliefs in corporate taxation – not in personal taxation. We depend on a dynamic and up-to-date business to make this go around. I didn't say in my post that I wanted to spend six billion dollars. kr more, but it would have been incredibly convenient just to say that one could use 6 billion. kr more. But I'm not quite sure that it would be just positive, because sober financial management and use also promote creativity, and makes you look at how to spend this money in the best possible way. This is Christian People's Party for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e779	For the Workers' Party, building more dwellings is an important task in the municipalities, especially in the press areas. That is why we have made a good proposal in one of our comments in the municipal bill. We want to extend urban growth agreements to several urban areas. We expect the municipalities that are given greater public collective development to commit themselves to a stronger coordination of housing and that increased housing should be given priority in future priorities for state infrastructure projects in and around the largest cities. We need to build more homes in the press areas. Why can't the Christian People's Party support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e792	First, President, I'm sorry I forgot twice to say 'President'. Now I did. Our country is very diverse. In terms of cities, public transport and so on, it's incredibly important how we build our homes. In the case of urban growth agreements, there are agreements between cities and districts around them. My area, the municipality of Iveland, with 1 300 inhabitants, which is very decentralised, cannot be subject to the same restrictions as in the case of e.g.: Kristiansand Center. And it can be transferred to very many places. So it's about having two thoughts in your head at once. I very much agree that there are press areas, but you don't have to let the districts around suffer for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e799	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e805	Everyone here in this room has at least one thing in common: that we live in a municipality, a welfare community that provides for us in many of the most important areas of life – with a good kindergarten and school, good health and care services and a strong social safety network. We must maintain and strengthen this. We want more living communities across the country, we want to reduce state detail management, and we want more power for the communities and their peoples. We will ensure a sustainable welfare society. After the severe oil price fall in 2014, we experienced major challenges, and the government used many different instruments to counter the downturn. We also made sure that the municipalities could keep the wheels running, with good growth in the free revenues. It has enabled municipalities to ensure good and safe kindergartens, school knowledge and health care quality. And the figures are clear: the growth in the free income of the municipal sector in the period 2013-2017 was 2.1 pst. This is a significant improvement from the period 2005–2013, when the average growth was 1.8 pst. Now we're in a different situation, and we know that the economic space is getting tighter in the future. That means that we have to make sure that we get the most out of each of these heads. This does not mean that employees should run faster, but that we need to work smarter and facilitate more innovation in the public sector. The municipalities of Norway operate well. Skilled employees and politicians combined with an increase in the free income have received many municipalities out of the ROBEK register. For many years, there were about 50 municipalities registered in ROBEK. Under this government the number has fallen year by year, and last year the figure was down to 28. That's the lowest number since ROBEK was created in 2001. This year it looks even better, and during 2018 we can be down in only 13 municipalities in the ROBEK register. So in some years, the proportion of municipalities in ROBEK has dropped from almost 12 pst. for about 3 pst. Good municipal economy is not primarily a good thing for the municipalities themselves; it is mainly good for all of us who live in the municipalities – for children in kindergartens, for students in school and for all those who need health and care services. From 2016 to 2017, there have been 500 more annual work in kindergartens, 200 more annual work in child protection, 300 more annual work in health and school health services, 2,800 more annual work in primary school and 4,900 more annual work in care services. Now the economy is on its way up again. Then, as a society, we need to be disciplined in the use of money, so that we continue to ensure low unemployment and increasing employment. But also next year we're adding up to good growth for the municipalities. The government proposes that municipalities generate a growth in free income of between 2.6 and 3.2 billion. kr in 2019. Strengthening the social security network so that more people are lifted and fewer are excluded. Of the free revenues, 200 million are. kr justified in the Landfill Escalation Plan and 100 million. kr in the plan of action for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, which is now fully financed. The population in Norway is growing slower than previously estimated. There is still some uncertainty about the additional costs of demography in 2019, and the announced growth of free revenues has to be seen in this context. There will soon be new population projections from the Statistical Central Agency, and estimates of additional expenditure will be presented in the State budget for 2019. As of 2017, an up-to-date income system for municipalities entered into force. It shall provide good and equivalent services to the inhabitants, more independent of the size of the municipality. We have removed obstacles to community mergers by saying that small municipalities in densely built districts that choose to stand alone cannot send the entire bill for administration to the rest of the municipality of Norway. However, full compensation is provided for the fact that some municipalities have more expenditure for, among other things. school and home services due to large distances and widespread housing. Municipalities which are involuntaryly small due to long distances will still receive full compensation for the administration of the municipality. In examining the state budget for 2018, the Stortinget government asked to assess the housing criteria of the income system in the light of the municipal reform. The value of municipalities on the residence criteria of the income system could change as a result of a merger. The new municipality will not always get a value on these criteria that is equal to the sum of the old municipalities. The Ministry will assess, forward to the municipal proposition for 2020, arrangements to mitigate any impact on the housing criteria as a result of aggregation, in order to facilitate the transition to new municipalities. It has been suggested that the income system be evaluated and reviewed every four years. In this context, the size wishes to reduce a wide-ranging public sample. Of course, I'll follow up on that. The municipal reform has so far resulted in the greatest change in the municipal structure since the 1960s. By 2020 there will be 356 municipalities in Norway. But as the responsible state council, I have to point out that there is still a need for changes in the municipal structure. Over several decades, we have seen a development in which the smallest municipalities become smaller and the largest municipalities grow and grow larger. After 2020, half of the municipalities will still have less than 5000 inhabitants, and over 100 municipalities will have less than 3000. They are vulnerable and often dependent on individuals. Many will also be totally dependent on inter-municipal cooperation. Such cooperation is absolutely necessary, but not a satisfactory response to the challenges faced by small municipalities. Community reform is therefore not going through, simply because the challenges are not going through. The government will continue to provide a good and predictable framework for municipalities that want to merge, and it is positive that the Storting ends up with the financial instruments. The government also implements the regional reform. In Norway, all municipalities have the same tasks. Then the smallest county municipality is the one that lists the tasks that county municipalities can have. Until this year, nine counties have had fewer than 200,000 inhabitants. After 2020, no county municipality will have less than 200000 inhabitants. Now there is no magic limit for 200,000 inhabitants, but larger counties strengthen the ability to perform today's tasks in a good way as well as to take on new tasks. I have noticed that Stortinget wants a separate case before 15 October about tasks it is relevant to transfer. Of course, we're going to follow up on this. I have fundamental faith in the decentralization of power and in moving tasks closer to the inhabitants. Transferring tasks to county councils gives citizens a stronger influence on how the tasks are handled. Municipalities have grown very well in recent years. We contribute to a solid community economy so that municipalities can continue their good work in schools, care for the elderly, drugs and child protection, thus ensuring a sustainable welfare society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e841	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e846	Let me start by saying thank you to the Council of State, because I noticed that the Council of State has an offensive attitude to respond to the clear message of the Stortinge on a comprehensive political assessment of the regional reform. There is respect for the fact that the Council of State meets that way. But then to the results for the municipal sector, which has already been a central part of the debate in the hall today. The government's parties are beating their breasts and boasting of the great results, but the results are mainly due to exceptional tax revenues that have grown larger than the government predicted. Much of this has been entirely exceptional because it is tax adaptation to the tax reform or one-off and non-permanent revenues. This means that the business framework is unpredictable. It is difficult to plan and budget so that you get money left at the end of the year. Does the Council of State believe that this is a sustainable and sensible way of governing the local government sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e855	I have followed the debate with interest, and the Labour Party's support for regional reform and task transfer is good. I will take that with me when I meet Mr Trondheim's rapporteur tomorrow, who will argue against the transfer of SIVA's tasks to the county councils. In terms of tax returns, we have adjusted the estimate down precisely because we know that it is very uncertain what the tax intake will be like. Tax access is, of course, a consequence of tax arrangements, and tax arrangements are adopted in the Stortinget. When making tax adjustments, they are based on the tax rules in force. What this government has done in tax cooperation with the parties in Stortinget, I am very pleased with. It has been absolutely necessary over dramatic years – I feel that the debate has not taken on board the years that we are going through – to strengthen the competitiveness of businesses and to strengthen the ability to hire more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e862	There is broad agreement in this room to strengthen the long-term and predictable framework conditions for businesses. This is why the Workers' Party went to work to get lower rates of taxation for business. I notice that the Council of State does not address what was at the heart of the problem I tried to travel, because the local government sector has received very much one-off income, which cannot be used as a basis for sustainable operation. There are services that you produce, which depend on effort. I have also noticed that the government in the proposition writes: ‘Strengthening economic space will push for more efficient solutions in the municipal sector’.» This despite the fact that at the same time the local authority sector has been good at improving efficiency in the last eight years, and indicates that the average number of people in the last few years has been 0.5 pst. improving efficiency over the period 2008-2016. The question is: do we now see that the Right steers back to where you were at the beginning of the thousandths – with a starvation of the municipalities to push forward structural changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e878	I have also heard the expression ‘swallowed municipalities’ used, and it has never been better than during this government. That shows the results, and it shows the number of ROBEK municipalities. That tax revenue varies is what we all know, and all of us who have been in the municipalities and the job know that they change from year to year. There is something about local government and municipalities. It's not a problem that you get big tax revenue one year, but you have to adapt to changes in tax revenue next year. I have great confidence that the municipalities are handling this in a very good way. With regard to the contribution to working more efficiently and innovatively, this is what hits everyone – large and small municipalities, both municipalities, county councils and the state. For this reason, massive efforts are now being made throughout Norway to digitise, automate, robotics and implement new, good solutions. And the state contributes. We have a good cooperation with the KS and the local government sector to make sure that we get better and smarter solutions in place, so that we can use the wise heads and warm hands where we need them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e887	I notice that the Council of State confirms that the government is using a tighter economic space to push forward even more efficient solutions in the local government sector, a sector that is very used to converting, that operates with more efficiency, and that has good results here. I think it's the wrong medicine, which I argued for in my post. I disagree with the council when she says that the municipalities relate to increased tax revenues, because it is impossible for municipalities to relate to future tax revenues. They are based on a government estimate coming the year before the financial year. They don't know how much more money they get until February of the following year. This is the money for which operation cannot be planned, which is the main task of the municipalities. Therefore, many municipalities have wisely either spent money on future challenges or paid off debt. That's wise. But there's no wise way to control the municipalities. The question is: how will the Council provide an increased room for action for municipalities – with long-term incomes and not just based on one-off payments?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e896	I think I have a little bit of a problem understanding the question. Thus, this government has contributed to growth in the municipal sector since 2013 – 2.1 pst. versus 1.8 pst. in the red-green years. This is how tax revenue varies. They did that in red-green years, which I know very well from my time as town councillor in Bergen. They do that under this government as well. But this is what the municipalities know, and that's what they're dealing with. The economic space for action is not based on the fact that it is a goal to tighten up the local economy itself, but it is a goal to tighten up the use of money. It is a goal to have a more neutral approach based on the fact that we now see the arrows pointing in the right direction: record low unemployment and higher employment – this is very important. It's not that long since we were in this room and we were pretty confused across party boundaries because we saw what the oil price drop did to community and individuals with family. We've had to put in the tools. They've worked. Then we also need a more neutral use of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e907	The government has consulted proposals for revised district index. The proposal has been met with clear objections, including: from KS and from many professionals. New district index is not used to allocate the district grant for 2019, but the municipal bill states that new district index will be used in negotiations with ESA on revision of the differentiated employer tax scheme. According to the Council of State, new district indexes that have not been submitted to the Stortinget and that have met so much resistance, among other things. from the KS and many professionals, shall be used as a basis for negotiations with ESA before it is used nationally and before it has been dealt with by the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e912	So the representative knows the resistance to the district index because, unlike the red-green, this government has presented the district index for the counties and for the KS. It hasn't been done before. That's why we're familiar with the resistance. I believe that the new index, and it is also professionally based, addresses the regional challenges. It's not all district challenges. Year-on-year challenges are, for example: not district challenges. There's something big cities may experience to an even greater extent than districts. But it takes on board important district challenges, which we are going to take seriously. And then we've said that we have to look at the consequences before we integrate it into the local economy, and that's why we've announced that it won't be done until next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e919	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, in the Committee's position, are forcing the merger of Finnmark and Troms to state that the states are the main area of foreign policy in Norway. It may well be assumed that the main area of domestic policy is the Inland, i.e. Hedmark and Uppland! The Government itself states in the Nordic Region Strategy for 2017 that the Nordic regions are Norway’s main area of foreign policy interest. It is based on the opportunities that lie in the Arctic, and the opportunities that we have at Svalbard both when it comes to economic growth and when it comes to research, innovation and other development opportunities in the North. Then my simple question is: is it that the Council of State or Government shares the views of the majority of the Committee on what is Norway's main foreign policy area? Or is it a warning that the government intends to change its Northern Region strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e927	There is no notice that we're changing the Northern Region Strategy, but we can change the way we work with North Region Policy. It depends a little on what happens in the northern regions — what kind of grip, for example. the new state in the north takes. It is a proposal, which the representative is probably aware of, from the debates on the Gardermoen, that we actually strengthen the North Region bet under the County Municipality. I believe that this can help us also move over national tasks to the regions that are just in this area, which have competence in it. It will also make it work much stronger.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e932	It may be a bit alarming that the Council of State cannot say that Finnmark and Troms are foreign policy, because that is what the majority of the committee has said. I want to give the Council of State the opportunity to join the State Top Finance Scheme for particularly resource-intensive services. There are services to some of them in society that can't talk for themselves. But there is a new quality regulation now, and the government's work to have more people printed earlier makes the municipalities have a very complicated work with many of these users. I assume that this is going to be done in a quality and sound health way, and it is therefore competence on the level of hospitals and staffing as an entire hospital department around some of these patients. It requires very extensive coordination of these services. These are tasks that the municipalities are now obviously not going to get involved in the municipal proportion, and that could mean quite a few million.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e939	This is a decision that has been taken a long time ago, and the municipalities are very familiar with it. This is demanding – I know that very well. It goes without saying that the bigger and more robust a municipality is, the better you are also able to handle precisely this type of patients. They are therefore ready to print, they should no longer be in hospitals, they should not be in hospital treatment – they should be in their municipalities. We have a good consultation with KS in this area. There are many demanding conditions, and of course the municipalities have to be compensated for the new tasks they get. There's no disagreement about that. And then we're going to discuss how this is going to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e946	If that means that the Council of State sees that there is a need to review this scheme now on the basis of the new and expanded tasks of municipalities in this area, I am pleased about it. It is clear that in order to carry out this work on the quality required for these patients, extensive coordination must be carried out, and it must be checked that all professionals with special skills are in place and certified. There are large costs — there are millions of costs — that are not covered by this scheme for many municipalities today, and it is very demanding. There won't be fewer patients – to put it that way – and they won't be younger or healthier because of the combination of municipalities. So it probably doesn't help so much for many of the municipalities that are already large and struggling with this. But it is positive if the Council of State can now confirm that the government is looking at this funding scheme in the light of the quality regulation and the other new requirements that the municipalities now receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e955	What I said was that we are in consultation with the KS to discuss the way we work on this. It's important. And then I completely disagree that the municipality size has nothing to say here. It is quite clear that a municipality that has employees who have the competence to work with this is in a completely different situation than a municipality that does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e960	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e965	Right-wing wants a rural policy that provides a good framework for growth and well-being across the country. If we are to succeed in this, we must bet on individuals and provide the best possible framework for good quality of life, expansion and creativity. Good services in municipalities are an important part of this. Very much is good in District Norway. Business goes down, employment is good, and the main impression from many municipalities is that it's working very well. The municipal economy under this government has also had a good development, and the number of municipalities on the ROBEK list is very, very low. But it is precisely in good times that it is important to take action and make the necessary adjustments to ensure good welfare services in the future. And the challenges are there: the ageing population will be a challenge in the years to come – and there are many places already – if we do not manage to get more young people to live in the districts. The municipal trade unions in many municipalities are small and perhaps not competitive enough in the fight to get the best skilled workers, and the need for the best is as great in the town as it is in the city. It is therefore positive to note that a majority in Stortinget sees the need for a continued voluntary based municipal reform. Community reform is politically demanding. It's about identity, emotions and complex issues. Clearly, it is easiest to oppose it – the question is whether by avoiding unpopular and demanding positions and decisions now in the long run, we are also challenging the welfare of the next generation. Short-termity can be a problem if you just look from choice to choice. The reform carried out in the previous period was a good start. 119 municipalities became 47. Based on volunteering, it has to be said to be a good result, but we're not in the port. Unfortunately, we see that many small municipalities have not gone further in their work of finding together. More than 120 municipalities have less than 3000 inhabitants and almost half of the country's municipalities have less than 5000. I am pretty sure that in the years to come, many local politicians will be challenged as to whether the professional environments in their municipality are large enough, whether they have the ability to deal with disease relapses, crises or vacations, and whether they are able to deliver competitive municipal services to the population over time. For example, when a young family is considering moving, the municipal services are important, and when a jobseeker is looking for a job, he or she will look for where it is good and robust professional environments to develop further within his or her profession. Continued development towards stronger – and fewer – municipalities is therefore necessary. We can't shut the door for this now. It is very positive that the government is continuing most of the economic incentives for the reform to continue. For those of us who want the reform to continue, it is a little surprising that the Workers' Party is involved in comments that pose problems for the workers' work on the reform. It is difficult to claim that the statesmen have been working with some undue pressure against the municipalities that have not wanted to merge. Positive advice and dissemination of experience from the merger processes that have taken place must be welcomed, or perhaps also expected to be able to assist the county councillors. The approach of the majority of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs to this testifies to a fear of contact with the Community reform that is perhaps understandable, from the point of view of the Centre Party, but which is a little disappointing to note from the Workers' Party. Gradually, it may not be so surprising from a party that they want to reform, but that is able to mobilize the courage to be a positive contributor to going through the processes. It was also disappointing to hear that the representative Sivertsen was not inside this in his post here in the hall. At least I look forward to the treatment of the State budget and expect the Workers' Party to be clearer in that context. It's in good times that we have to make the necessary adjustments. Maybe that's what we're dealing with right now. We have to man up to go through this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e988	Norwegian values are created in the districts, and this government has taken it seriously. At last year’s elections, we faced a roadblock where future jobs in the districts were secured. Norway cannot afford bad roads and higher taxes, especially in districts. The cost of a red government option would be unsafe jobs and relocation. With our municipal policy, we make Norway more accessible, not just to the Nordics, but to tourists, trade and industry. This is not done by tax reductions alone; it is absolutely essential that cities and districts are linked to a good infrastructure. Roads must be better and safer, and there must be good railways, bridges and ferries. The progress party and the government prove with the municipal proposition for 2019 that we are pursuing a policy that takes care of Norway's leading value creators, those who give ground for growth, values and nutrition. We need farmers, farming, industry and hotels. The day jobs disappear from the districts, we lose much of our identity; we lose access to nature, we lose history, cultural heritage, tourism and important income. Here both taxes, transportation and good services play an important role. Norway is a long-term country with a low population density. When both population and business are spread over long distances, a road network is required that is designed to allow people and goods to be transported efficiently, safely and environmentally friendly. All roads in Norway shall be developed and operated in accordance with established standards. This shall include a high-speed rail network that binds cities and parts of the country together in an efficient, safe and environmentally sound manner. Such development must include solutions to manage traffic outside cities, reducing the need for strong restrictions on urban road traffic. Maybe there's no sign of increased taxes and road losses in Oslo, where Battle violence in Vedum and Gahr Støre, after all, is the most plentiful, where corporations are owned by foreign companies, and where people take the T-Bahn. But increased taxes and bad roads make a big difference for family-run businesses, breeding businesses, hotels and other industries that are run for generations and that view their employees as their family. Real Norwegian values are created in the districts, not in Oslo. Unfortunately, the Workers' Party has done a good job when they have painted the face of the wealthiest in society at the wealth tax – but I know who is hit hardest by this treasure. It is Norwegian-owned solid farms and farm owners who preserve history and heritage. Finally, there is talk of those who create jobs – those who like to pay taxes, but cannot afford to get tripled. The Progress Party and the government's municipal policy must strengthen the districts. When we meet businesses, it is pointed out that they do not survive a property tax that continues to increase, whether the property tax rises and the roads to the companies fall due. There are many who are concerned about what the consequences of a red policy and a red government will be. A good infrastructure not only strengthens the districts, but also enables us to transport quickly and efficiently the goods we sell out of the country. It also strengthens us in global competition. Fortunately, the inhabitants know what they get with this government. The Norwegian economy becomes more predictable with us, we want to thank those who create the jobs, we want to keep working on reducing taxes, and we want to make sure that Norwegian-owned companies continue to have the opportunity to be exactly that. Doomsday prophecies about the government's district policy have been many. We have heard these claims in all municipal debates, from all the media and not least from the Centre Party and the left side of Norwegian politics. The prophecies of judgment have been shamed, and this government has produced very good results for the districts. The districts are strengthened, business is growing, the local economy has never been better. The corner stone farms cheer us up, agriculture goes down, and never before has transportation had such a high priority. The main allies of the centre party, the Workers' Party and SV, want a substantial increase in taxes and charges. Therefore, the real difference for the districts between a Advance Party, Right and Left government and a government led by the red-red is very large.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1011	The municipalities are the crux of our welfare system, and over the years the municipalities have been given a great responsibility to provide the citizens with services, so to speak, from cradle to grave. It is about kindergartens — now also with a norm — school from 1st to 10th grade, medical services, home care, nursing homes, cultural services, such as: libraries and the provision of good water and sewerage systems. These services are managed by local elected representatives who prioritise and set targets for their municipality. And once the local politicians have said their own, the competent employees of the municipalities are the ones who provide the services in practice. It is the employees who go to work every day of the year, who are the very hub of the services of the municipalities. Without qualified and engaged employees, these services could not be provided as they become. There will always be a discussion about how much money we can spend on the municipalities: what is the right level of money usage set up against the tasks we at Stortinget and we as residents expect to be delivered? As a society, we have suggested that municipalities deliver in a number of areas in everyday life, and that also requires a reasonable amount of money. The distribution must also be sensible, so that the principle – at least the principle of the Workers' Party – that there should be equivalent services irrespective of where you live can be followed by municipalities. This is why the Labour Party says that the local government sector needs to be strengthened financially so that its objectives can be achieved. The government's plans for the municipal economy, as proposed for 2019, are simply not good enough if ambitions are to be followed up in school, kindergarten, health and care. That's why we think it's necessary to increase the income of the municipalities by up to 4 billion. kr for 2019. Of course, such an increase will not solve all financial problems in all municipalities throughout Norway, but it promises at least the level to give local politicians a more favourable starting point for providing citizens with a good and sensible service, and it will also help to improve the conditions for employees. There must be money on the table. Unfortunately, not a good municipal economy for 2019 has been prioritised by the government. Although we are still being heard by the government and representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party about a strong and good community economy, it is simply not what it is. It is self-criticism, and the claims made by the government and the Progress Party are also wrong. The number from the government itself confirms that this self-criticism does not hold water or measure. The feedback we receive from local politicians does not confirm this huge self-criticism that we are being served by government councils and the Right Party and the Advance Party. If the Right Party and the Advance Party had been right in their claims about an exceptionally strong municipal economy, no more and more municipalities would have had to introduce property taxes in the last four years. The municipalities that have introduced property taxes have done so because it was imperative. For example, Eidsberg municipality in Eastfold has had to do so. If not, the wheels had not gone around, according to the rapporteur, which I can also inform you about is a relatively competent rapporteur from the Right. In fact, for 2018–2019, the municipality will not experience any real growth in the free revenues. When the distribution comes to the harvest, I'm afraid that a lot of municipalities will experience that they have to cut services in practice. The municipalities must therefore be involved and pay for the main matter of government, which is less tax to the richest of Norway. That's how the country is governed. The rich get the most, and the bill is now sent, among others. to the municipalities of the country. We also hear away the government boasting that the municipalities have profits. Yes, many municipalities have benefited in the last two years. But it does not come as a result of a generous and generous government that spends money on the municipalities. It comes from a government that can't count, because there are errors in the tax estimates, so that at the end of the year you'll experience big incomes, disposables. In addition, representatives from the Right and the Advance Party and the Government claim that this money can be used by municipalities to hire more people. Yes, they can, but then the risk is very high because they have to cancel the same people after six to seven–eight months, for next year they can't be sure that that money is coming. It is not a long-term and sustainable governance of the local economy. But that's how the country is currently governed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1028	I am pleased that in our country we have municipalities with large, important and relevant tasks, and with the Right in Government, the local economy is strengthened. The left-hand terror propaganda has been put to shame. Through municipal reform and regional reform, we equip our municipalities and counties for the future. We know that migration needs to be achieved if we are to solve both today's and tomorrow's challenges, and service innovation needs to be strengthened on the agenda. We have to learn from those who find new ways to solve these problems. This is precisely why it is reassuring that the municipal economy is solid, and that with this municipal proposal we provide a good basis for the municipalities' financial framework for 2019 and ensure good, safe childcare facilities, school knowledge and health care quality. And as many people have been in the past, it's good to see that the ROBEK list gets shorter and shorter. In addition, the government has taken important steps to strengthen local democracy. There should be no doubt that in the Right we want living communities throughout the country. The community reform now being implemented contributes to the continuation of a tradition of strong welfare municipalities, where municipalities have both a great responsibility and a space for action. Municipalities and counties are primarily required to provide services to the inhabitants, and we want equally good access to the services regardless of where we live in the country. However, when the demand for services increases, the pressure on municipalities also increases for more competence, innovative and cost-effective solutions. Therefore, local and regional reform is also about acceptance in order to increase expectations for quality involves prioritisation, efficiency and innovation. Many municipalities have so far solved such challenges through a number of intermunicipal cooperation. Cooperation is very good, but it is also important to look at the impact of extensive inter-municipal cooperation on local democracy and on economic and administrative costs. There is reason to ask how far the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are willing to go when they ask in their comments that competence requirements should not be «are linked to employees of each municipality but to functions which the municipalities are obliged to perform, in their own municipality or in binding intercommunal cooperation». Is it more important to maintain today's municipal boundaries than to ensure democratic transparency and participation of citizens in municipal and county services? And are we to be satisfied that municipalities cannot handle the tasks that Stortinget has assigned them, but must leave responsibility to the neighbouring municipality? It's also strange to see that the Center Party, which they say wants strong communities, is voting against the government's proposal, which is just in agreement with moving power and tasks across the country. For my part, I am pleased that we have a large number of people who support the need to continue the community reform, in order to ensure better services for citizens where necessary. The same applies to regional reform, and we are going to enter a stage in which the future tasks for the new regions are to be chiseled out. And since all the county councils have the same tasks, the smallest county council will add the list of tasks to be transferred, as the council just explained. In its position on this matter, the Committee states that it is urgent to clarify the tasks and powers to be allocated to the new counties. Iver after clarification is important if something is to be done, but then all the counties must also have prepared and made sure to be clear if the tasks are to be carried out as from 1 January 2020, as they are being worked for. For me, it is a paradox that the Workers' Party, which has not at all been the main driver of this reform, is now very concerned that the government has to deliver on the tasks. At the same time, they unfortunately do not signal anything about what tasks they themselves want to do in the counties. It reminds me the most of a really solid idea drying.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1052	Community reform is a success. The will and ability to change in the municipalities is very much respected, and I hope that even more municipalities will follow to get better and bigger, because the municipal reform continues, and I hope that all local politicians will take responsibility for that. However, it is also important that the government and the government make sure that aggregation pays off, which is guaranteed by this municipal proposition. No municipalities should lose their conversion, it must pay off financially, especially for those who are the least. We are through the first period of municipal reform, but we have not got a new municipal structure as such. There are still too many small municipalities with vulnerable trade unions. They will labor to provide citizens with good and equivalent services, and to develop communities. Local government reform will therefore continue, and there will be good and long-term economic instruments for municipalities that want to merge. Because small municipalities will experience the greatest challenges, it is also those that get the strongest incentives to merge. In the standard model, the minimum rate for two municipalities with less than 15 000 people joining is 25 million. kr. Thereafter, the amount of the subsidy is increased by 10 million. kr per new municipality in aggregations beyond two municipalities. The breakdown grant that compensates for losses of basic grants and decreases in district grants continues. Full compensation is granted for 15 years and then escalated over five years. Municipalities assessing the bundling of municipalities should also be supported in informing and asking citizens about the policy choice. The people have played a central role in the community reform. They shall continue to have it, but there shall be no time limits in the same way during that period. I hope that all the municipalities see the possibility of getting stronger. Community mergers are one of the strongest possibilities for efficiency at Kommune-Norway. It is much better to increase the size of the municipality than the size of the property tax. Opportunities in Norwegian municipalities are enormous, and in the future it will be increasingly important for municipalities to change to meet the challenges. It can be about economics, technology, larger municipalities and red tape. The ongoing municipal reform is a long way to prove that the local population and local politicians are taking responsibility for the proper development of Norway. Unfortunately, we see that the Workers' Party takes populist positions and tries to distance itself in a matter where we agreed a little while ago. The municipal reform is now taking shape, and with record voluntary mergers, the municipal map will look different in 2020. The very few know that most voluntary mergers take place in Labour Party-led municipalities. This shows that there is also a burning desire for better municipalities in the grassroots section of the Workers' Party. One can quickly get the impression of something else when we see how absent the Labour Party is in this part of the debate. But I would like to say one thing to the Workers' Party: it's not too late to turn around. The working party may prove to be the responsible party they once were, and stand up and say that the reform has been, and is, necessary. I am not saying that the Labour Party should lose credibility, but that all the rapporteurs out there should receive the support they need in the work that remains. The implementation of the municipal reform is the result of many years of demand for it by municipal politicians and professionals, and it is therefore not a government leadership. The municipal reform is a process that started from below, and was ordered by local politicians from the Progress Party, the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party at their national meetings. The reform is based on voluntary action, by the fact that municipalities themselves have had talks and made agreements with their neighbouring municipalities. Many have changed since the previous municipal mergers in the 1960s, among others. population patterns, communication opportunities, business structures, welfare needs, expectations of the municipality and the need for skills. The community reform is being implemented to meet the changed conditions and to create stronger municipalities that will meet the expectations of the present and future municipalities. Community mergers will pay off financially, and the rapporteurs will depend on support from the government if we are to aim to provide the best services to the citizens. We're going to give them that support.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1078	Norway is a long-distance country, and we live in the inner valley and on the outer edge. But most of us live somewhere in the middle. Over 80 pst. of us live in cities and towns. Here we have our homes, and here we create our lives. Cities and agglomerations also face many of the major challenges we need to find good policy solutions for the future – such as infrastructure, innovation, business development, housing, exclusion and integration, and sustainability in climate and environment. Good municipal economy is crucial. A strong and robust local economy, as the Workers' Party adds, is helping to equip municipalities to pursue good housing policies and forward-looking urban and urban development. In English you often say, "Home is where the heart is." An important part of creating good lives is creating good homes and communities. We need to create a safe and good local environment with schools, bicycle paths and collective services where there is good access to work and to leisure and cultural services. We want to give older people the opportunity to be bosses in their own lives, for example. by allowing them to stay at home longer and to have good institutions for those who need it. Housing policy reflects what we in society are concerned about – the key to everything we are concerned about in social democracy – well-being, equality, care for the elderly, integration, inclusion of the mentally ill and by others who have good work to do. It must be easier to enter the housing market, whether you own it or you rent it. Last week, the Minister of Finance of Norway visited the IMF, which expressed concern about the increasing level of debt in Norway. We can counteract that. But it is equally about creating a good social housing policy, which helps to provide a good offer to everyone wherever you live, about well-being, equality, care for the elderly and integration, and about schools and leisure activities that are important conditions for our children's growth. We need to take the climate and environmental challenges seriously. Growing cities challenge the environment, whether through housing, infrastructure or air pollution. One in four children is diagnosed with asthma before the age of 16. Pollution is a contributing cause. Only in Oslo, there are 200,000 people living in the so-called red zone, where air pollution is too high. One of the people who's marked it is Martin in 12 years. It's like breathing through a pipe thinner than a suction pipe, is his word. This is a shared responsibility. We need to build tighter and smarter. Cities that grow quickly, build a lot. But who is based, and on what conditions? Every year, private entrepreneurs build kindergartens, schools and hospitals for billions of dollars for the Municipality of Oslo. But it has to happen really. The Oslo City Council, together with the social partners, has therefore developed the Oslo Model for a decent working life. Fixed employees are the clear rule. At least 10 pst. by working time shall be carried out by apprentices, an extended tax certificate is required, no cash shall be paid, between assignments shall be paid, and key project personnel shall be able to understand Norwegian. It's working. The construction industry in Oslo is now building again. Not since the mid-1990s have so many applied for apprenticeship in Oslo. That's how Oslo leads, and then I have to say that with the Workers' Party at the head, we're working on combating work-life crime and social dumping. In order to properly drive urban and urban development, municipalities need a strong, secure and robust municipal economy in their backs. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has just this as a taboo, and that we are strengthening the municipal budgets year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1097	I heard it was about municipal reform and the Workers' Party's view of it, and that very many Workers' Party-led municipalities are part of the process of merging. Yes, it's because Arbeiderparti-led municipalities that can solve tasks better by changing the structure, find out for themselves, investigate it for themselves. They're making that choice. That's because it's coming from below. This is also the case in the regional reform. I believe Tree Layer is the best example of a process that is owned from below, and therefore will also be successful – the same with Agder. When we've been skeptical, it's because of the coercion, that we know best what's out there -- not least in view of what's happening in the north. We have had this debate with the Council of State in the past, I just want to underline the importance of it. Otherwise, it's positive that we get an overall review of the tasks to be transferred, later this year, and that we get to give the Council of State recognition for. When I travel around Norwegian municipalities, I learn that the word ‘municipal economy’ is one of the saddest words in Norwegian political vocabulary. But it covers some of the hottest and most important aspects of human life, because it's actually this economy, this budget and the money we give, which means something in everyday life for people, for kindergartens, for the elderly, for measures close to. When it gets pinched in here for different reasons, there are the elderly, the needy, the needy, the young who are struggling, the vulnerable, newly-baked mothers who, after a short time in a hospital, come out and don't get an offer on the other side. This is what this community economy is all about. These are the ones that get the offer weakened when the municipality they live in has to save and cut, and these are the ones that are affected when the municipalities take on new responsibilities, without accompanying money so that they can build up good offers for the inhabitants. This is a kind of black player game we've now seen, that it's cut from the central level, not necessarily in the local economy, but the one who's left to deliver the offer to the vulnerable is the municipality, and the municipality has an economy and a budget. We in the Workers' Party have greater ambitions for the well-being of people, because when we have it, we also create people who can participate, work and be part of the big gap of Norwegian society. Our more than 200 rapporteurs have greater ambitions in the elderly, health policy, school and kindergarten policies. That is why we prioritise well-being higher than the government in our budgets – by 3 to 4 billion. kr more than the government adds. There is money that makes it possible to deliver with quality to more in home-based care, more in hospital homes and to have more to do prevention work to vulnerable young people and those who are struggling with drug and mental illness. I guess that's the money used. Today we are going to hear claims from the Right-Representatives that this does not match reality out there. But I think it's a fundamental problem we have to go into, that when the municipalities are charged with new tasks and demands that require money, and this money doesn't come along with, telling stories that the free income is there. It's only half the story – half a story that can be quite serious, especially in the old age policy. The next year's election to Norwegian local government really has to sit there when we statistically approach a rapidly growing older population. Assuming that the Stortinget adopts the necessary increased staffing requirements in schools, in kindergartens, it actually has to be followed up with funds. When that does not happen, the government forces the municipalities to cut into other budgets, and it is a priority process that is politically unyielding. That is why the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left are putting up with the elderly, irresponsible – we believe. For the Labour Party, it is important to stand on the side of the citizens and their ombudsmen and women in municipal policy, the rapporteurs, who fight this fight every day, who are to offer a good offer to the citizens, and who are not least to make the care of the elderly as good as possible when we grow older. If the government parties are planning to run a municipal election campaign to give them, the rapporteurs and the municipal politicians, the blame for their own situation, where the care of the elderly comes under even greater pressure, my message is clear: Forget it, it is actually the government that has a primary responsibility here, and the Labour Party is going to make sure to point out the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1112	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1117	We're lucky to live in a country like Norway, a strong welfare society where we're going to lift in a flock, where we're going to take care of each other, and we're succeeding through a strong community. Those who have helped build this wonderful welfare community are the country's seniors. They have laid the groundwork for future generations to live, live and grow old in one of the world’s best countries, provided that this growth continues its historical tradition of investing in the community. Older people are growing older in Norway, and it is a quality sign for a country that people are doing well and live longer. Several older people will live at home longer, they will be the boss of their own lives, but will be confident that they will get help from home service when they need it. Then there will be a time when you will need more happy days of care, a day-to-day day of activity, life and health care, not a day-to-day day that will be marked by a place of storage. In Norway, we need to develop care for the elderly. There will be a need for more meeting places where we take the fight against loneliness seriously, where older people living in their own homes can fill their everyday lives with activity and a good social meal. It's about life happiness, and it's about prevention. Kommune-Norge must expand the places of health care that meet the real need. And the municipalities have to think anew, like my town of Drammen does, where you have to build new health centers with nursing homes, nursing homes and urban centres that offer meaningful content in everyday life for all seniors. The fight against loneliness is taken seriously. Should Kommune-Norway be able to provide good care for the elderly, we must listen to and bet on the employees, the everyday health and care heroes. We need to recruit many young people for the health professions, and we need to keep them, and then they need to know that the employees are to be invested in. They must have a working day where they have enough colleagues, where they do not go home with a bad conscience. Then Kommune-Norge must be given economic muscles. For the Workers' Party, it's not about parties, we're doing it in practice. That's why we have forced the government to defeat when they wanted to cut off the grant to build new care facilities. If the Right and Advance Party policies were implemented, only my city of Drammen would have lost between 700 and 900 million. kr. While the right-hand side now adds up to a real growth of zero and settles down on the chest, we'll give the community 4 billion. kr more. We will give the Kommune-Norway the opportunity to expand new places of care and meeting places and enough people to take care of our elderly people by making provision for the everyday heroes, the employees, by giving them more competence, new colleagues, and by notifying future generations that it is only to bet on the health professions. And we say the following: the quality of a society is drawn from how we take care of our elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1130	The municipalities are the foundation of our welfare society, and it is clear that most of us meet the vast majority of services in the municipalities as well. For five years in a row, this government provides a municipal structure that gives municipalities good conditions for delivering good services to their inhabitants. We see a higher total growth in the free income now than under the red-green government. The municipalities deliver good results, and it is record few municipalities that are on the ROBEK list. Through this debate, we hear some claims from the Labour Party about the growth of the local economy. But a little bit of the problem with the picture being drawn is that you just ignore what really has something to say to people, and that's the real growth in free income per capita. There is something to say for children who are going to kindergarten, for students who are going to school, for children who need help through child protection, and for the elderly who are going to a nursing home. It's a fact that the real growth in free income has been greater during this government than it was under eight red-green years. Then you could also say that it's almost on the border of parody that you characterize a municipal structure from this government as incredibly bad, while a change of less than 1 pst., which the Workers' Party adds to its alternative, is obviously a perfect arrangement. For some, it is the welfare offer they receive in the municipalities, vital. For those people who struggle with intoxication, it is a fact that the help they get in their municipality can be crucial for their recovery, and whether they can get back to work. That is why, under this government, we have also launched an escalating plan for the drug field. In the period 2016–2020, the appropriations for the drug field will be increased by over 2.4 billion. kr, and of that, the municipalities are strengthened by a billion. It's a historical boost. It will provide better capacity and quality of service. Several shall receive assistance and assistance shall be provided in advance and appropriate to the individual’s needs. For those who are ill with drug abuse and who are waiting for help to recover from the misery they have been in, it means something – and it still means something to them – that there is the Right in Government, and that we have provided a good growth in the free incomes of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1143	The municipalities are responsible for the kindergarten sector. It is important that municipalities continue to ensure full quality childcare and high-quality kindergartens. We in the Progress Party are proud that we have now ensured full economic equality between public and private kindergartens, have made clear quality requirements for all kindergartens, and have also ensured that the parents of the country are well satisfied with the offer they receive. This year, we have carried out the greatest parental survey of the ages. There are over 100,000 parents who have answered it, and 94 pst. responds to their satisfaction with the kindergarten sector. That's historically good numbers. The size has recently adopted a new recruitment standard. It's a norm that's been on the ground since 1975, but it's now becoming a national requirement. The municipalities that have not given priority to staffing in their kindergartens must now do so. In this process, the Progress Party has ensured good transitional arrangements for private kindergartens, so that they can continue to provide good services to their parents and children, and we will follow that up. However, municipalities must also take responsibility for their own kindergartens. There are about 100 municipalities that now need to increase staffing in their kindergartens, because they have not previously prioritised it high enough. It has now been stated by Stortinget that they will have to do, and then SV and the Workers' Party from this room say that it is so difficult. It's not hard at all. The municipalities have record profits. The municipality of Bergen alone has a surplus of 1,140 million. kr. The new standard will cost about 84 million. kr – it's just a fraction. Trondheim has a surplus of 719 million. kr. The new norm will cost $30 million. kr. This annual result alone can ensure staffing standards for 24 years. Common to all the municipalities that do not comply with the norm is that they are run by the Workers' Party and SV, most of them – the Workers' Party and SV, who for many years have talked about how important it is to have more employees in kindergartens, SV and the Workers' Party, who have thus not prioritised it themselves in their own municipalities. They must now take responsibility for that. The Progress Party cannot defend that we should give rewards to Workers' Party and SV-led municipalities for not having prioritised staffing in kindergartens, when three-quarters of the municipalities in Norway have already done so. The kindergarten sector is a municipal responsibility. The advance party and the government have secured the municipalities record profits. The few municipalities that have not had enough staff for now have to redeploy, and they have room to prioritize it, if they want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1154	There's a meager framework the government proposes to grant to the county municipalities next year. Income development from minus 100 million. NOK plus 100 million. will make it difficult to meet people’s demands and wishes, and not least the requirements of the Grand Duchy for the provision of services in the fields of higher education, public transport, road maintenance, business development, dentistry, culture and cultural heritage – to mention some of the areas for which our counties are responsible. The majority has said that the county councils will remain in place in the future, and it would be in their place that they were also given a framework to meet the tasks they have already assigned to them. The size recently examined a central party representative’s proposal for measures to re-establish the maintenance seat run on the county roads. There was a broad consensus that something had to be done. Unfortunately, this agreement is not followed up by the proposal for a next year framework for county municipalities. Some say the counties have themselves to thank. In 2010, responsibility for a large part of the national roads was transferred to the county municipalities, and that responsibility is not clear to the counties, it was claimed. That's wrong. The numbers show something completely different. Among other things, the percentage of road with poor or very poor tyre standard has sunk from 45,3 pst. to 40.8 pst. in the last five years. So it is clear to the county councils, despite the poor framework of this government. However, if the county councils are to continue to reduce the proportion of bad county roads, they must also be given transfers that allow them to take the responsibility that the state has given them. So the government doesn't follow up. The center part added 1 billion. kr in its 2018 alternative budget for the maintenance of the county roads. Our scheme would give my home country, Nordland, 192.5 million. kr more e.g. for road maintenance. The centre party will follow up with appropriations also in 2019. Of an income frame of 3 to 4 billion. In addition to the government's proposal, as we propose, we say that it should be set aside money to resume the maintenance run on the county roads. We follow up on what we promise. The municipal bill for 2020 will propose changes to the income system of the county municipalities, which the government promises. This is necessary, since the changes made in 2015 have been shown to have consequences that need to be corrected. The centre party promotes in its setting a proposal that a new income system should ensure better compensation for long distances and low population density. The centre party is also involved in a proposal for adjustments to the ferries exit mechanism for county roads, where we ask that it be opened up to assess the amortisation time more flexibly, and not least the cost of capital, if necessary to be able to fully finance projects. The government has got the bulk of the population in implementing the coercive merger of the counties. It is also confirmed in the setting of the municipal proposal. The new thing is that there have been foreign policy motivations to coerce Troms and Finnmark. So it's going to cost what it's going to cost. The parties behind that majority believe that they know best what benefits the Finnish mark. The centre party disagrees completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1173	We hear representatives from both the government and their supporters drawing a picture of a local economy in great improvement. The unit of measurement is that fewer municipalities are at ROBEK now than before. For the Right who used to talk about ‘humans, not billions’, it must feel a little strange that municipalities should be measured on whether they’re at ROBEK or not. The party of progress has been concerned that people will get the help they need from the public. It is not measured by whether the municipality is at ROBEK or not. People living in municipalities need good services. That is why the Labour Party has chosen services over tax cuts, because our kids need more adults around them in kindergarten and in school, and because we realize that school health services and health services are services for young people. When KS, even, shouts for crisis in the fixed medical system, you should listen. Nor does parental care shine everywhere. For two years, municipalities have had higher revenues than expected. The revised national budget says that tax revenue was 1.8 billion. kr higher in 2017 than calculated. This is because increased tax revenue came as a result of adjustments to the tax reform and they have been underestimated as a result of the changes made to the tax settlement. This is not income that will last. Because, as the revised national budget states: ‘The high tax input is not an expression of unexpected strong underlying tax growth’, but ‘the adjustments to the tax reform’ — that is, one-off money. The reason why so many municipalities have come out of ROBEK is not to be found in the government's policy, but is the result of the municipalities having to save, and they have had to compensate for the lack of transfers by tightening up the property tax. Only last year it increased by 1.2 billion. kr. In the last three years, the increase has been 38 pst. I would challenge the Council of State to explain how many municipalities would have been on the ROBEK list if the property tax had been removed. I think it would be quite a lot. Here in this hall we still hear about the resistance to property taxes. My question to the government council is how she believes the municipalities should cover the loss of property tax, as representatives of the government parties are still proposing. In a debate with the Political Spokesman of the Advance Party on property taxes, he said that the Council would be that the municipalities could find some citizens who gave more income. Then the question is, which municipalities were supposed to have the others?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1191	The social security network is important for the population, so that more people are raised and fewer falls outside. Right will have a worthy care and combat addiction. We see the value of a knowledge-based drug policy, with the limitation of harm and harm reduction as decisive targets, and the priority of what has the greatest effect. Here, municipalities have a very important role to play in meeting the challenges we see. That's why we're now strengthening the escalating plan for intoxication, by 200 million. kr in the municipal proposal for 2019. Therefore, we also strengthened the municipalities by over 1 billion. kr through the growth of free revenues from 2016 to 2018. With an increase in free income, the provision of freedom to develop services in line with local needs, while at the same time strengthening the free income of municipalities also contributes to the simplification and foresight of municipalities. The plan of escalation is the government's most important initiative for the drug field, which means that the rewards are increased by 2.4 billion. kr during the period 2016-2020. This is necessary in order for more people to be able to get help, to be able to get help in the past, and not least to be able to meet the needs of the individual. At the same time, the growth of the TSB and the strengthening of the public health programme also contribute to the further development of other actions. And we see the result: the growth in annual work in municipal mental health and alcohol work has continued. The psychological competence of the services is greatly strengthened. It is now 265 municipalities and parts of the city that accept 410 psychologist settings. 54 pst. the municipalities indicate that the escalation plan has had direct consequences in the form of several annual works and additional user involvement. In order to succeed in providing better services to those with drug problems, good services are essential in municipalities, in the community of users. The gathering of the promises for the escalation plan will be brought back to October by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1204	A good community economy is incredibly important to ensure the proper functioning of services throughout Norway, with services close to people. It is the municipalities that provide some of the most important services in our lives, from cradle to grave – to our kids in kindergarten and school, and to the elderly who are inside some of their last days. Therefore, it is important to have both a good municipal economy and the distribution of municipal income. Unfortunately, this government and this majority have contributed, through the municipal economy, to the weakening of their relative incomes by many small municipalities and by many long-distance municipalities, and there is a need to make changes. Both the government councils and several representatives from the government parties boast of the municipal economy, boast of extra annual works that have arrived in the municipalities, and boast of better services. The job done in the municipalities is the municipality itself to take credit for, and not representatives in this room. Here one also tries to take credit for increased income for municipalities when a substantial part of the increased income is about extraordinary tax revenue, including: as an adaptation to the tax reform. When you look at what has happened in the municipalities, one important measure is to look at how many more there are to perform the services that are being done. Under the red-green government, an average of 8,500 more employees were employed in the municipalities of Norway each year. With today's government, that number is halved, while the tasks of the municipalities are constantly increasing. At the same time as the majority boasts of what is going on in the municipalities, there is a discussion of property taxes, and then it is suddenly the responsibility of the municipalities to introduce property taxes. Then one suddenly does not take responsibility for what is the situation – when one in the period 2013–2017 has gone from 205 to 282 municipalities with property taxes on housing, and the total amount of property tax paid has gone from 3,7 billion. DKK to over 7 billion. kr. There is a need to improve the economy of municipalities in the future, in order to strengthen a good service provision across the country. That's why we need to have increased income for the municipalities, increased free income, and it's in the Central Party's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1219	I just love the municipality, I, and when people hit municipalities and local politicians, I get pretty angry. Every day, people elected work hard to deliver good services to the citizens. It's my party traps, it's the party traps of the Council of State, it's everybody's party traps with that responsibility out in the municipalities. I myself have been rapporteur in a municipality with a tight economy and limited economic space. Among the 15 pst. of the municipalities that do not have property taxes, we are probably a dream municipality in the eyes of the government. We've balanced on a knife saw to make the economy go around. To put it at the forefront, one demanding child protection case may be decisive for the budget to go unbalanced. One of the first things we did when we took over power in 2015 was to provide more employees in kindergartens. We had 27 children per 4 employees in the grandchild wards. We were giving priority to taking this down to 24:4. We did not succeed in strengthening the teacher’s density for the smallest children in school at the same time. Thus, we still had 14 children in 4 employees in the early childhood ward, and we really looked forward to the state's assistance. Yes, because we actually thought that the government parties would fund the standard of manning. The municipalities are met by the fact that it's just a matter of priority. It's just to give priority to the standard of living, it's just to give priority to nursing homes, it's just to give priority to more midwives, health sisters and teachers. Yes, these are tasks the municipality will prioritise, but at the expense of what? It is not time to set the different sectors against each other. In my home municipality, we have made a huge promise and established 28 day places for people with dementia, which is divided into fractions of 40 users. Nevertheless, there is a need for even more hospitals and reception places because hospitals print patients that are much more sicker than before. When the respective specialist councils only point to each other, it will be up to the Minister of State of Malta to ensure that the municipalities have sufficient room for action. It will not be possible to draw the priority card if, on the one hand, you do not provide enough money for municipalities, and, on the other hand, the municipality's own ability to increase its economic space through municipal property taxes is restricted. This government has given priority to: tax incentives for the richest have given priority to this government – in front of kindergarten teachers, nurses, midwives and nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1235	So far in the debate there has been a lot of black paint of the situation around the municipalities. I don't recognize myself in this. We have many inhabitants throughout the country who are happy with the municipalities. I myself have been rapporteur for 15 years, and I must say that for the last four to five years we have experienced a positive development. The local economy has improved. We have received many important measures in place. Noise and mental health have been mentioned. I can mention health sisters in schools, poverty funds, community psychologists, teachers and not least the strengthening of kindergarten. It's like some of us also have experience with eight years of red-green rule. Apart from the year 2006, it was a tight economy. It was difficult to run a municipality, and it was demanding. I want us to focus on all the competent municipal employees we have, who do a good job, who are involved in developing municipalities, and who accept the challenges we have. This government has put something absolutely necessary in focus. That's the municipal structure. There are too many small municipalities, and there is too much difference in offer in the different municipalities. I think we should pay more attention to that. It is important that all citizens of the country receive the same offer, and that all citizens of the country feel that their affairs are being treated in the same way. That is why we need to strengthen the municipal structure. We have to do something about the situation as it is today. I would also like to point out that with today's municipal structure, many of the decisions and decisions have also been moved out of the municipal government hall. They have been transferred to IKS and other solutions. But by strengthening the municipalities so that they become larger and more robust, you can once again bring the decisions back to the Municipal Government and City Council. I am very pleased that the government is largely focusing on strong and robust municipalities, and that a majority here is presenting a municipal proposition that is well received, which we are going to decide on, and which I feel is good for the municipalities. We in the municipalities are for the inhabitants of the country. I look forward to the debate further and hope that we can make a good decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1250	We, who have seagoing times in municipal policy, know that funding needs to be seen in the context of tasks. The municipal sector has never had more and more tasks, and today there is no match between what the government imposes and what they grant to the municipalities. In the future, municipalities will face major challenges as a result of changes that they do not have. It's demography, climate, migration patterns and much more. This widens the gap between revenue and expenditure. Many Akershus municipalities will have a strong population growth. A young wave is en route around Oslo. At the same time, the Norwegian population was aged. It is very good that we live much longer than before, but it also means that more and more municipal bills have to go to health, care and care. The municipality is the largest and most important welfare actor. It is important that the National Assembly is aware that when the government announces less money to the municipalities in the future, growing tasks occur at the same time. I have noted in the debate on the underfunded standard of maintenance for kindergartens that the Progress Party indicates that the municipalities are running with profits, which is only to be used. Municipalities need to put up economic buffers now. Something else is irresponsible. Municipalities need to take their share of the responsibility to equip themselves for more pressing times and tasks. They can't count on drag help from this government. There is zero growth in the free income, and the government announces a darker horizon in the future. It is also my experience that local politicians are committed to running well and cost-effectively, and that local staff are stretching far to provide good services to citizens. Government politicians should appreciate the important efforts being made locally. Norway does not serve to force municipalities to prioritize core tasks and little else. Municipalities need economic frameworks that enable them to adapt policy to the local needs of people. No one bothers to get involved locally if the local action space is narrowed in, and you only have to deliver what the state imposes on you. Good municipal economy is necessary, not only for the provision of services, but also for the function of the local political arena. I heard the Right-Representative before talking about the municipal structure again. It is not that the municipal structure solves the economic challenges in the municipal sector. Large municipalities also report a deficit. Nor is it that there will be fewer IKSs if you clean up the municipal structure. No one has more IKS than the big municipalities. To conclude, the Workers' Party's alternative budget for 2019 will strengthen the local economy. We do that to give people throughout the country good kindergartens and safe care for the elderly. We have continued and will continue to invest in well-being locally. I wish the government parties did the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1263	Today we have heard a lot about starving the local government sector. We've got a lot of description of misery. I have to say that I do not recognize myself in that description. There has also been talk of tax havens to the rich. Yeah, that might mean e.g. We've had 1.8 billion in North Norway. kr for value creation in the part of the country. With e.g. The Workers' Party's proposal should have sent us 1.4 billion. kr more southerly to Oslo. There is talk of this government being a district enemy. No, it's going to go down in my part of the country. It's never been so good before. There is talk of transportation in the districts, that we get too little, for example, in my part of the country, which has gone from a share of 13 pst. until now 22 pst. – by a much larger transport cake. It was mentioned in the debate that Nordland is one of the states that is losing. It is with respect to report wrong. I have been rapporteur in a district municipality under the red-green government. The fact is that we were doing something violent with the local economy. It has actually become significantly better during this government. And that also shows the statistics. ROBEK statistics show that municipalities are profiting. If I refer to any facts from my state, it's actually like Nordland has gotten 46 million. kr more for boat and ferry with the new cost key. The growth of the county has been greater than the average growth of rural municipalities in the country. In 2016, the municipalities of Nordland had the best operating results in 10 years. The number of municipalities in ROBEK is record low. The municipality of Nordland has contributed some large profits in recent years. The municipality of Nordland has 126 pst. of the national average of income per capita. In comparison, Oslo has 97 pst. There are very few who have spoken here today about the regional development funds that have disappeared. Few may miss them, because they see that the government has instead used them on new roads. Another example from North Norway: The appropriations for operation and maintenance on the road during the last red-green budget were 2.8 billion. kr, under the government of the day, it is more than 5 billion. kr. I just want to point out that this black paint – how bad things are going especially in the districts and around the municipalities – does not match the reality we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1282	Municipalities are important, and it is therefore also important that we talk about some of the things that go well in the municipal sector. An example of this is the climate rate mechanism, introduced by today's majority, which is increasingly being sought by municipalities and county councils. It's set at 150 million. NOK in the 2018 budget for local measures that can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but can also contribute to conversion – we are doing the green shift. There are many good suggestions for shifts out there, and here we can also contribute to creating local jobs. I'll get into that a little bit. The green start-up in the municipal sector is particularly important, and there are many people employed in this sector. Some actors also become commercial companies. Yesterday I visited Count Biogas in Vestfold. It is one of the actors who has managed to take an industrial boost out of the municipal sector, how many municipalities, but also after each agriculture and other actors, are doing an important green development. It is advanced industry and advanced research that is being carried out there. Tønsberg municipality is the host municipality for the development work to take place. A debate we have too little of here in the Chamber in relation to the municipal sector is at the risk of a municipality taking on such a large industrial boost. They are now collecting waste from Asker to Kragerø – it is a large area and surrounding. They've taken on a special responsibility to finance this, and that's probably one of the reasons why things are going a little bit slow in this green sector, which we want to become a circular economy. Then the municipalities must also be able to sort out and create some of the raw materials that the waste actually is, to put on the tank or on a turbine, it can become electricity or fuel – or actually a tomato. Greenhouses are now being built next to the biogas tanks at Greve Biogas. We need to discuss how to further develop that sector in order to take the industrial promises. It is not enough for Count Biogas, Tønsberg and Vestfold to take that promise. Several municipalities in Norway have to take that promise, and we have to discuss how we rig these intercommunal companies that manage to collect waste and create companies, but who may not have the competence and capital to take those promises and create an industry. We can rig some more, but then we have to have a more comprehensive plan for how this is going to happen, and not leave the big risk to individual municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1293	Norway is doing well, and Telemark – my home country is doing well. It was fun to read in the county newspapers at the end of April when the latest edition of the NHO's economics barometer was presented. The figures showed that Telemark enterprises are more positive than in the long term when it relates to the market situation and prospects. In Telemark, an actual more positive is than the average. The unemployment rate has continued to fall, and Telemark – like other states – is now lacking in skilled labour. There is a need for carpenters, carpenters, nurses, health professionals, to identify some occupational groups. Growth is on its way up, unemployment is on its way down, optimism is on its way, and it is also reflected in Kommune-Noreg. We need to return to the 1990s to find the corresponding good results for the municipalities, and there is a record low number of municipalities on the ROBEK list during the year. An important backlog from industry over time has been that the best way to strengthen business is to invest in road, rail and collective. That's what this government has done. Since the government took over, investment in transport has increased by 60 p.p., and the maintenance run falls on the major roads. Since the government took over, the bet on the county road network is increased by 20 pst., as well as extra funds for tunnel safety and scaffolding. On the right, the clear penance of the county councils on large maintenance crews on the highways takes seriously and together with the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party asked the government to put in place a restraint system according to the given criteria to bring the maintenance crew down. In order to provide good services to citizens, it is important to have a good professional and competence environment. Small municipalities often have vulnerable trade unions, and many municipalities find it difficult to recruit professionals. There are still 120 municipalities in Norway with fewer than 3,000 inhabitants. It is therefore important to continue the work on the reform of the municipality. In the municipal bill, the government presents financial instruments for future municipal mergers. Greater and stronger municipalities provide better welfare services, more resilient social development and stronger local self-government. In many small municipalities, it is reported that several political parties are struggling to list the municipal elections. In some municipalities, there may be only two or three lists. Many people, perhaps especially young people, refuse to get involved. There is often a lot of responsibility for the few and, as I see it, a weakening of local democracy. Right is the concern of building society from below and spreading power. To that end, we need a strong local government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1310	This is an interesting discussion. The municipalities are the bearer of our society. The Committee also describes the municipalities as such. It means that without good, strong and bearing municipalities, the whole house of a society rages together. After all, we are elected into local government, county councils, and big business to represent people's opinions and needs. We're gonna make sure people feel good and happy. Then it is relevant to remind the government councils and parties that people thrive and are most satisfied with the services in small municipalities. Editor of the Fagbladet Society and Economics, Bjarne Jensen, wrote about Meld. St. 15 for 2017-2018, Life throughout life – A quality reform for the elderly, that it was referred to research related to care for the elderly, but not discussed the phenomenon that the inhabitants are most satisfied in the small municipalities. Then I have to ask: does the Council of State feel that the satisfaction of the citizens is not relevant to the services, or does this testify to a governance culture in which selected facts are used to support government policy? The warning signals come from several teams. Research forums report undermining academic freedom. In Stortingen we are almost ridiculed to ask questions about the knowledge base of government administration. The center part is not going to work. The aim of the municipal reform is to correct the municipalities and the division of tasks in order to improve the provision of services to citizens. Then it has to have local anchoring to become real. The fact that the government parties in the hall today do not address the challenges of living local democracy and community involvement shows that the motivation for bundling is greater than for actually improving municipalities. For a good municipality consists of so many, and I wonder: What framework does the government actually give the municipalities to be good? Is there still unforeseeability and rice behind the mirror the municipality needs? In its statement, the Council of State also called for a follow-up to the Storting decision. After hearing contributions from her party traps and government partners, I would like to remind you that the income system should not be used to drive more mergers. This was decided by Stortinget before Christmas. Follow-up to large-scale ambitions related to kindergarten, school and teaching standards must also be followed up by means to achieve the objectives. If the promises of the value of the municipalities are to be achieved, they must be followed up with confidence in local democracy and professionals with their shoes on, who know where it is printed. We have to give the municipalities they should be able to carry, and strengthen the support beam based on the material and its inherent strengths.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1329	Local and regional reform was justified on the grounds that larger and merged entities were necessary to transfer major tasks from the State to municipalities and counties. This was to strengthen local democracy, said the government parties, well supplemented by the supporters of the Left and Christian People's Party. Great words, but so far there has been word without action. New tasks for municipalities can best be summarised with approx. Nothing. When it comes to the transfer of tasks to new county municipalities, it started out a little bit brighter. The government-appointed expert committee submitted proposals for the decentralisation of tasks from the state to the county council, in which we in the Central Party knew ourselves well. The sample’s proposals meant that 4,760 State annual works were made municipal. The activities proposed to be carried over have an annual budget of 23.5 billion. kr. I said we knew each other in the Center Party. Those who have read the settings from Stortinget's report processing. St. 22 for 2015–2016, on the regional reform, will notice that there is a great deal of convergence between the proposals promoted there by the Centre Party and those subsequently presented by the government's expert committee. The representative of Skjelstad today was amazed that the centre party was suddenly inducing new tasks for the county council. I must say I am amazed that the Left spokesman in the Municipal Committee when we discussed Report. St. 22, did not realize that the Center Party promoted the absolutely most concrete and most new tasks to the states. Changes in the division of tasks between countries and counties shall be made to provide better services to citizens, to strengthen democracy, to increase the capacity of the county council to be a strong regional developer and to provide cross-sectoral coordination gains. From signaling the willingness to follow up the recommendations of the committee of experts when the suspension was presented and the Council of State gave its first comments, we have unfortunately seen a change in the signals given. It now states that a ministerial review of the proposals will be carried out and that this will be dealt with individually. This isn't good enough. The danger of this crumbling away is great. There are enough forces that will ensure that power and governance of public tasks remain in the state. The issue of the transfer of water management plans has been under consultation, and the Committee of Experts considers this to be contrary to the intentions of both the Planning and Building Act as a coordinating law and to the intentions of the regional reform. That is why I am pleased that today the majority is making proposals asking for this to be part of the overall investigation. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1348	Then you're out of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1353	As a local politician over ten years, I am pleased that the municipal proposition has been delivered in a good way and with a good result. The economy of the municipalities is good. We can, among other things: note that we need to return to the last millennium in order to find a better result for Norwegian municipalities than last year. But that was not what I had intended to address from the pulpit today. What's been in my mind in the last few months are all the local politicians and the thousands of people who live from Western Agdes in the south and up along the west coast, depending on the ferry to get to work, to social events, to the store, to events and other – which we live on the mainland or do not depend on the ferry, take for granted. I remember that in 2015, as a local politician, I went to the Stortingen to have a meeting with the then head of the committee, the representative of Njåstad, on the extension of ferry release funds from 20 years – as the red-green government had administered it – to 40 years, which was adopted. This allowed many ferry routes to be replaced by bridge or tunnel. There has been some uncertainty about how much you can get in grants, whether interest and capital costs should be covered and so on – and some things that have made it possible for not all projects to be realised. There has been a huge exposure outside the coastal communities, including: in my municipality, Flekkefjord in West Agder, where there are two ferry connections to the islands of Andabeløy and Hidra. Hidra landfast, among others is a project with which it has been working for 50 years – I repeat: for 50 years. Last year I was at a public meeting where there was one who said that when he was a little boy at the end of the 1960s, the then Minister of Transport Håkon Kyllingmark came to visit the island to fight for mainland connections. 50 years of chatting with no results. But I'm glad that the government parties, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, are now going to cover much of the cost of capital, which makes it easier to carry out some projects. I would also like to commend the representative Trellevik for a particularly good work. I record that various parties and representatives are fighting to tell you that it was those who have provided a majority for a better system, perhaps without having been particularly connected to the work. But I would like to remind you that it is with the Right and Advance Party in government over five years that the system has become so good that we can replace ferry with bridge and tunnel in many places in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1372	There are major changes to be made to individual municipalities and regions in connection with the issue under discussion today. For Hadeland, which is a region consisting of three municipalities: Jevnaker, Lunner and Gran, two of the three municipalities are now to be moved to the new Viken district. Gran, who has the regional centre and the continuing school in the region, has chosen to stay in Uppland, which is now to become part of the Inland State. Important functions, such as the local medical centre of Hadeland, which the Hospital of the Inland are to be established together with the municipality, are to be located in Gran, and the inter-municipal cooperation between the three municipalities is comprehensive and well integrated. However, Lunner Municipal Government and Jevnaker Municipal Government have decided to transfer to the new Viken County Municipality. There are a lot of arguments that can talk about it being tricked. The central party is critical to this, because border changes and border adjustments are made that only carry out the assessment of individual municipalities, and that it is not inserted into a larger picture of what is a preeminent breakdown, both for the new counties and for the municipalities in the counties. This is also said by the Opland counties in their statements to the applications from these municipalities for transfer to new counties. The population primarily thought that one should look closer to the possibilities of adjusting the county boundaries between the Inland and the Viking Gulf, which include several municipalities in the peripheral zones of the new counties, rather than assessing the number of individual municipalities that have applied for county change. The central party sees that today, Lunner and Jevnaker do not belong to the same state as other municipalities in the same bus and work region, which means that the municipality is standing outside the level work that is largely premeditated for further infrastructure and social development. The Central Party believes that there should be a more comprehensive monitoring of the impact of a county change for Lunner and Jevnaker, and that a county change will have a negative impact on the new state of the Inland, especially the county change for Lunner, which is an important municipality of growth for the Inland. The central party agrees with the State of Uppland that new county boundaries will help to strengthen negative development. Therefore, the Center Party believes that one should have a national perspective and see a greater need for a strong centre of gravity with growth power north of our capital. It is also important to focus on what the inhabitants themselves think in such cases. In the context of the municipal reform work in 2015, when the inhabitants were asked for a possible new municipality consisting of Gran and Lunner, 58 pst replied. of those who fell to Lunner, that they still desired to be part of Uppland. So the central party thinks that before a division of Hadeland into two with a state border, it has to analyse more thoroughly the consequences for the whole of Hadeland before this is put into action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1388	It has been interesting to hear representatives from the government parties Right and Advance Party today – but also in the past – talk about the need for task transfer to more robust municipalities and county municipalities when we know at the same time that the government has proposed to move the water management work from the elected municipalities to the state officials at County State. At the same time, they have also planned to remove the Law on Planning and Building as a law of the House and to transfer it to the Nature Diversity Act in the same field. It's practically out of touch. Norwegian municipalities and county councils have overall responsibility for seeing the whole, weighing different interests against each other, and it does largely both municipalities and county municipalities in a good way, with a broad impact and influence. One of the most important tools is the Law on Planning and Building. It is a common arena for different sectors and interests of the decisions to be taken. The Planning and Building Act is an important coordination mechanism, perhaps especially in the regional plans, such as the water management plans. The regional plans are intended to act as coordinating and mediation instruments in our People's Rule. Now 2003: 14 reads: ‘Good mechanisms are needed to be able to see the different sectors and interests in the context, to balance them against each other and to make decisions on the basis of comprehensive and long-term assessments. The committee considered it a primary task after its mandate to contribute to the development of the planning system in the planning and building law of the common arena for this purpose. It is of great importance that the various sectors and interests can be revalued in an equivalent and balanced manner within the legal system.» At the same time, we know that the evaluations carried out by water management work are mainly positive, and a study by OsloMet tells us that actors consider it of great value that all sectoral areas affecting the aquatic environment are in the same arena through regional planning processes. The plan has acted as a regional interpretation of national interests — adapted to regional specificities. It also states that a good planning process is crucial and that the county coordinators have the key role. In addition, process knowledge is important in order to create ownership in municipalities of the measures to be implemented locally. It is therefore incomprehensible that at a time when the goal is to transfer tasks downwards in a successful area, the government is proposing to move the tasks upwards – away from the elected ones and into the officials. I am therefore pleased that a majority today ask the government to suspend its planned changes until we can see this in the context of an overall case of new tasks to the municipalities and the proposal to transfer from the Planning and Building Act to the Nature Diversity Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1400	As welfare producers, municipalities are central. A good community economy is important to ensure knowledge in schools, quality of health care and the strengthening of the social security network. The fact that the government has delivered greater growth in the local economy than the previous government and the growth in free income has almost doubled shows that the terror propaganda from the left has been put to shame. Early efforts, efforts on teachers and the strengthening of the professions are important for the Right. It's about giving our children the best starting point in life and helping everyone have equal opportunities. Free core time in kindergartens and reduced parental pay for low-income families are measures that contribute to it. Too early work starts in kindergarten. That's why we have high ambitions for quality. We have put in place a framework plan for the kindergarten sector, we have recently adopted a recruitment standard, and we have set up a pedagogical standard. So far, 73 pst. of kindergartens already met the requirements, but more than every four still have a job to do. The budget agreement has put in 100 million. to contribute to the simplification of the phase-in of new requirements, while it is worth noting that many non-target municipalities have had large profits over several years. The mountains, for example, that needed 160 million. To meet the norm, two consecutive years have gone by with a surplus of more than 1 billion. kr. And there are several examples. Much is therefore about giving our young people priority and giving priority to early action. In the Right-Handled Drammen you are well-invited to step up your efforts, and you take the private ones with you by giving them the same grants as the municipal kindergartens receive. It shows political leadership, and we see that more people are now giving a further boost to our kids. But early effort is so much more. Now we have also given extra funds and a statutory obligation to ensure good transitions between kindergarten and kindergarten. Young people's first meeting with the school should be positive. Something as simple as knowing where the toilet is, or greeting the new adults contributes to a softer meeting and a better transition. The most important thing is to feel mastering, especially professional. It gives learning joys and increases self-confidence, and increases self-confidence contributes to lifelong learning. Early success, therefore, is at the heart of the Right’s policy. Since the government change, we have had a solid change of course from late to early work in the school as well. The left-hand side has long talked about more teachers, but in its eight years only delivered a few hundred teaching positions at the end of the ten-year elementary school cycle. By comparison, we've got several thousand fixed teaching positions so far, we've agreed on a teacher's norm, and it's been a special boost for the child's stage. In the context of the introduction of master training for teachers, skills requirements and the fact that more than 20,000 teachers have been trained so far, we are now strongly contributing to our children being seen, to mastering, and not least to learning joy. Norwegian school does not need red-green school policies and old solutions, but more of our policies, and I hope that the voters will also contribute to the municipal elections next autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1417	In the debate on the municipal reform, we have heard representatives from the government party who are very pleased that the reform is ongoing and partially implemented, but not entirely, we understand from what has been said. They are pleased that the statesmen will continue with their untimely pressure against local democracy. Skepticism is not about fear of contact, as the representative Thommes calls it in his post, but that fortunately there is a party in this room that respects the local people and the inhabitants in its view. In Sogn and Fjordane we have the worst impact of the municipal reform, namely the new municipality of Kinn, a municipality with two hours travel time between the current municipalities and with the large municipality of Bremen. A comparison that shows the madness of this project is that the travel time between Oslo and Porsgrund is about the same as between Måløy and Florø. Not even today's centralization government has proposed to merge Oslo and Porsgrund, or Oslo and Hamar for the sake of the case, which has shorter travel time between its centers. Now people in Vågsøy have said their own. A large number of people have said no to the municipality of Kinn. It must then be expected that the local council will take a new decision and then that the local council will re-establish its merger decision. It is high time that one in this room lifted respect for the inhabitants and local democracy. In the debate we have heard about how good the municipality economy is for the districts. As a representative of a district party, I don't recognize myself in all the parties. The representative Trellevik claimed that the government and the majority of the population do not take funds from the districts and transfer them to the cities. I would like to ask Trellevik and the others from the government parties to read how the changes in the income system from 2015 and 2017 have turned out. The changes have given rise to a redistribution of incomes by reducing low-population and high-distance areas. The distribution effect of the conversion for municipalities is that Oslo receives a growth of DKK 950 per capita, while Sogn and Fjordane, which lose most, lose $2,427 per capita. Isn't that a redistribution? The changes in 2017 have reduced revenues for most municipalities with between 2000 and 25,000 inhabitants, while all municipalities with more than 25,000 inhabitants received growth. In this year's income line, a technical change has been made to generate lost income for 25 out of 26 municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane, while Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim have the largest growth – hardly by chance. Sogn and Fjordane County Lose nearly 14 million. kr, and Nordland loses 26 million. kr on the same conversion. We have a district enemy government that threatens district municipalities to combine with economic coercion. Cut income to the district municipalities has spread out almost all district policy instruments. With a little rewriting of an old prayer, I would say, "Lord, don't leave them, for they know too well what they're doing."
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1432	Finnmark people don't want any regional reform. That's what the people said in May 14th. Despite this, one runs on from the government, one should force the states of Troms and Finnmark together. The state reform is justified by the fact that the government will strengthen the social development role of the states. In the budgets, there is just the money available to the counties for the development of businesses and the organisation of new jobs, which is cut most strongly. The Right and Advance Party are the main architects behind the municipal and state reform. The Left and Christian People's Party are associated with the government on the reform. The Christian People's Party does not want to impose community reform, but in the reform of the region they are under compulsion. In Finnmark, the Workers' Party refuses to merge, and the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have worked together to reverse the merger between Troms and Finnmark. People in Finnmark don't want to merge with Troms, the county has said no to merging, and one won't appoint a common denominator. But now the Minister of State says that such a decision is possibly illegal and will lead to legal control by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The warning itself came through a call for the first meeting in common on 22 June. If Finnmark fails to select members, the Ministry will have to ensure that a decision-making body can follow up the Storting decision. This will involve a change in regulation, so that the number of members from Troms and Finnmark mirrors the population. A decision that no members will be elected to the common denominator will be illegal is stated in the letter from the municipal minister. After that 87 pst. of the Finnmarks said no to aggregation and the county council unanimously rejected aggregation, I disagree that the department can override Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1443	We hear the government parties rose the government's municipal stake in the clouds. It doesn't surprise, because they have to repeat and repeat it, because they hope it will stick as an established truth. But an established truth is not always relative to reality, and the reality is only by traveling around and talking to those who are chosen to govern the municipalities – to whom the government grants less money and to which they impose more tasks. The people I meet when I'm around Municipality-Norway report a completely different reality. Take, for example: Haugesund — a western municipality but now defined outside the Western region. Haugesund is one of the municipalities that have disappeared from ROBEK. After many years of right-hand rule, the municipality had been on the list, and the voters were so dissatisfied with the Right-hand regime that they voted in favour of a new majority. With rapporteur from the Labour Party at the head, the municipality has saved and saved and changed the policy in the city, and exactly one year ago, on 13 June 2017, the municipal government could celebrate that they were out of the list. But the councillor in the municipality said after the decision, "We haven't become a rich municipality because we're not at ROBEK, we're just hacking less poor." This was an example from one municipality, but there are several. Yes, in fact, this is the reality of the real world. But while the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party boast of an alleged increase in the municipal economy, local politicians take responsibility and have to cut the service offer to get the budgets up. Extraordinary tax revenues benefited some municipalities, including: income from the raising of dividends due to the government's tax cuts to the richest. The exceptional nature of revenue makes responsible municipalities unable to use this money for operations and employment, because they will not be able to come next year. That is why this money will be set aside for later use. So reality is quite different out there than what is proclaimed from the government parties from the pulpit today. But we don't want to go into the government's echo chamber. It is not government policy that has led Haugesund and others out of ROBEK, but responsible politicians, many of whom are from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1454	It's impressive what the Workers' Party is going to be able to thin out of 1 pst. increase in the budget. They will solve the challenges of care for the elderly, children's homes, sick homes, psychiatry, child protection, standard of manning, road, school, midwives. One should solve this by 1 pst. It's totally amazing. They don't even manage to figure out what they're going to prioritize by the challenges of society. But 1 pst. So they're some of them. It might need more than one pst. to address societal challenges. So I'm really impressed with this presentation. And not enough of that, now we have increased taxes, so even having increased taxes, is a challenge despite the fact that we have reduced tax rates on both wealth and other income. It was a wise lady from the Labour Party who said something really reasonable. She said that a child protection case could overturn the load and budget in a municipality. Not a good argument to merge municipalities? If a child-residence challenge and a child-rescue case can overturn a municipal budget, many in the Labour Party have to do so on their own. Then I'm impressed by Liv Signe's dramatic description of land and beach and how bad and terrible everything is in the district. I've come from the district myself, and I've been pretty much okay with it. It is that we subsidize the district quite a lot with city money. In the districts, in municipalities with 2,000 inhabitants, the free income is DKK 80000 per capita. In the big cities there are no more than $50,000. So that's the very opposite of what Liv Signe says. So we bring money from cities and districts – redistribution from large to small. And we also agree that this is a good policy. There are major urban challenges, and there are economies of scale – and we have to live with them. So I would like to take a little visit – time goes too fast here – to the representative Willfred Nordlund from the Senterpartiet. He slumped with the Northern Territory policy in a line change. In fact, I think he understands better. I must honestly admit that language and spelling are not my strong side, but I am a product of a proper Senterpari school – twenty elephants, two teachers, and when the teacher was away from school, I was in school. So Norwegian is not my best profession, but it's the way that these two states in the north are the most important states in our Northern Region policy. That's what this is about. But creating vocabulary and even challenging state councils on whether nord area policy is fixed, it doesn't belong at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1465	This debate has shown quite a variety of differences and some temperaments of percentages here and there. I think it might be time to raise my eyes and say to the municipal committee: Good work! For the setting here now, there are quite a lot of good policies that I think there's a reason to enjoy, among other things. such as that the majority now say that there should be a pressure on the relocation of tasks to the state, so that we can get a real case, which also indicates that one can achieve what has been the intention of the state reform, or that the Committee now decides that merged municipalities that come out worse because of the unintended effects of the criterion of the income system should receive compensation. The new Sunnfjord municipality is perhaps the crown example of such a municipality. It's the greatest voluntary aggregation we've had, but there was an opportunity to get worse because of the unintended things that have happened now. The Committee's expectations become important because they say that compensation is important and that it means something. It's about justice, and it's about being a coach. That's important, because we're not just going to doubt municipalities that are in such processes today. So that's that part of the setting that I'm especially fond of. It's about the suspension arrangement. The government has followed up the call for proposals from the State Budget Unit between the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party, as many other parties support in the Grand Chamber. But when they complied with the call decision, the government came to a conclusion that they thought they would not strengthen this scheme, for example. to consider how toll financing was to be provided, or interest and other financial costs. By the time the scheme was extended to 40 years, the purpose was for one to trigger more projects for the states and for the connections that are now going into practice if one is not allowed to do so. It is a long step on the way when a Joint Committee now says that some of the financial costs should be covered. As the representative Bransdal said in his contribution, the Christian People's Party would primarily cover all the capital costs, and I believe that the ambition that we have here is to have a real, good order in place, which means a difference between the relationships that this debt is now divided by several parties. I'm excited about the changes that the government will have to work with towards the state budget. The Christian People's Party has a expectation that we can have a change in this system as indeed monnar. At least our position is clear, and I hope and expect that the signal that a mass cluster is now giving will be followed up in a way that will enable us to realize more projects – for the benefit of local businesses, communities and not least the people who live there today, and who have to live with expensive and unnecessarily long ferry routes that are going out in practice if we can't see a pressure on this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1476	Centralisation is job number one for this government. Although both the Minister of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and representatives of the government parties claim that now everything is going so much better, there is a change in this society now, a change that increases the differences, both between people and the geographical differences. One of the first things this government did was reduce the limits to North Norway by 368 million. kr annually. The municipality of Nordland alone had to cover a reduction of 284 million. kr. The county is now preparing for further savings as a result of the perspective notification. In addition, I am very concerned about the new changes in ferry standards and distribution keys for grants to county ferry service. The proposal that is now being consulted, shortly after it has been amended, creates considerable uncertainty as to what it will be like for the links that are at sea, for example. Ferry that goeth to the trainee, the lifeline of the trainee to the land. It is a long and demanding ferry stretch where there are not so many people living, but where there is very high value creation per person living there and where the fishing industry is incredibly important. We have to make sure that such seapieces are taken into account, or that you get permanent compensation, so the money is not centralized to the routes where there is the most traffic. For these ferry routes are very important for the value creation in time to come. The representative of Finstad believes that the county municipality has what he described as ‘large profits’. That's not right. The county needs some funding, and the debt ratio is high. Representatives from the government parties also use to say that the county council cannot give priority, and especially when it comes to how much money is spent on boats and ferries. This is not right – but I think I'll redraw to give details about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1489	The reform of the region is a reform which even the members of the Right Party and the representatives of the Progressive Party say they have nothing to do with it, and with coercive divisions of the counties as a result, a Norway map of the counties to which the counties themselves said no, and to which the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party themselves describe as unreasonable and unfortunate. But the Right Party and the Advance Party let others take the tactile stick in the matter, they let the Left get through a division that most people are very dissatisfied with. The fact that the Christian People's Party drew a little bit on its shoulders and participated in this is also quite incomprehensible. But then the tasks were to come to these new states – to the Gulf, with 1.2 million inhabitants, and More and Romesdal, with barely 300,000. So the tasks have not yet come, but the government has announced that they will take away from the counties, now the last water management. It is very unwise, just as unwise, as it is to deprive the counties of responsibility for higher education and public transport. Today, a majority in this Chamber is promoting a proposal that says that the government has to come up with an overall case of new tasks for the states, the regions. It is a very sensible and good proposal, and I must praise the Christian People's Party to be a part of it. That's very good. The government doesn't like it and will also take the new problems piece by piece and piece, which would give a poor overall overview. It is therefore good that the bulk of the population now tells the council and the government where the cabinet should stand, also in this case, so that the problem is not even worse. Then to the municipal proposition as such, which is on the table here today, and which has not awakened joy and enthusiasm financially in the country's municipalities and counties. It hasn't, I haven't seen any cheers for this proposal. As I said before, the government has spent the money on large tax cuts for those who have the most in the past, and it is clear that with such a priority it will be smaller to solve the problems together. It is a simple economic calculation, but this leads to an increase in the right and right-wing party-driven municipalities in this country and has introduced – as was referred to here in the pulpit earlier today – property tax in a large monn. They have had to do this, if not the wheels had not gone around, as the rapporteur in Eidsberg wisely said.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1500	We have a government and representatives of them in this room who only tell us how good they themselves are, rather than discuss the major challenges in our society that need to be solved, and how they should be solved. It's a shame for the debate, and not least for the citizens, that the government parties spend time confusing numbers. If one is going to put in the right medicine, one must at least relate to the same figures as the Ministry of Local Affairs states. One should be able to expect that at least they are right. In fact.no examined this in 2017 and could document the same as the representative Sivertsen referred to from the Ministry of Local Affairs. The growth of free income has decreased during this government. What's even more worrying is the growth of loans in municipalities in recent years. From 2013 to 2016, according to SSB, the municipal loan debt grew by approximately 24 pst. per capita. The level of debt is absolutely central and important in order to assess the economic space of the municipality. In my Right-Court of Home now the loan debt is over NOK 100 000 per capita. It reduces the scope for action and helps to make the service provision worse and less predictable. Thus, municipalities are still spending less on the provision of services and more on the use of loans. Fortunately, the level of interest rates has remained low and stable, but this cannot continue, we are told. We hear about a home-care unit that is struggling with more complex disease images and high sick leave, about an increasing proportion of our disabled population, and more mentally ill. We have been notified of the lack of teachers, nurses, permanent doctors and professional workers. One in five nurses quit healthcare. For five years, the government's response has been tax relief to the richest. The same tax haven has also been removed from our common welfare services. We want to prevent, not extinguish, and we do that where the inhabitants live, namely in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1515	The local economy is about a lot of money. It's very strange to talk about money in this debate. The reality is that since it took over, the government has spent 220 billion dollars. kr more than any government before. It would only be lacking if none of the appropriations had gone to some sensible measures in the municipalities and for the community. The question is whether you have given proper priority when you have not given more priority to the municipalities than what you have done. I notice that no one has commented on the fact that the Health Authority and other types of supervision have shown that there are serious things going on, such as human rights violations, in the care of some of the people for whom the municipalities are responsible. If we're going to do something about it, it's going to cost us money. And then I hear that right-wing hassles over the rises in the opposition, that they don't matter. But when the Right and the Government seas add 100 million. kr on the table for rehabilitation, it has to solve things, and 200 million. kr in the case of intoxication, must solve everything, but several billion more is like nothing, it should not solve tasks. When SV submits its budget, we ask the government: what does it cost? When we say we're going to have more teachers and a norm, we're going to calculate it, and then we're going to add that money. When we say we're going to have more employees in kindergartens, we're going to count on it and add that money. We've financed what everyone says we're going to, and then it's at least 6 billion. kr more. And it's not possible to remove the property tax in the municipalities if we're going to get this done. We must have a secure economy in the future, not based on extraordinary incomes for a single year, whether from the farming industry or from different types of tax adjustments. So I'm very surprised at this debate. I am also amazed at those who believe that community reunification solves all of this. I come from a state with some of the country's largest geographical municipalities, but with few inhabitants. The population of these municipalities doesn't get any younger when you put them together, people live very widely, and there are mountain ranges between them, it's not possible – if you're not honest and say that there's centralization you want, there shouldn't be people living in these towns and these valleys inside Hedmark. I think that the government should be honest and say, because that is what the policy they are pursuing is going on. Therefore, SV also wants an income system that compensates for these costs and that allocates revenue more fairly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1527	I have to apologize if I have upset the representative Trellevik that he had not got what he himself suggested in the setting. It is therefore fortunate that the Right has several representatives in the Committee. It was also interesting to note that the Council of State also had no response to whether the counties of Troms and Finnmark have become Norway’s main area of foreign policy interest. It was nice to hear that the representative Trellevik was a product of a Senterparti school, but I had thought that the geography would be a little better. The representative himself and the right printer in the setting, among other things. to fill the borders of Troms with Russia. It doesn't, I guess we just have to be able to establish that right away. It is not without reason that the majority of the Committee is inconceivable that parts of the Committee consider that the Troms and Finnmark counties constitute Norway's main area of foreign policy interest, in particular all the time when the government says the exact opposite of the government's Northern Region Strategy, as recently issued in 2017. The representative Trellevik also had some interesting points in his main post, which relates to the percentage versus the krone. I want to follow up and ask the Council of State: Is the Council of State in favour of the table that she handed over to the Committee on 5 July, concerning the growth rate in the free incomes of the various years and under the different governments? In this case – if the Council of State is in charge of this letter – there are several representatives from, among others, the The right hand side and the propulsion part that are completely wrong in their posts, when they claim that the growth has been so much larger during this government. The council says the opposite, which we can read from the attachments to the setting. I think there are several of the representatives who could have taken the trouble to do so, even though there were attachments that came in response to a question asked by the Workers' Party. For the Central Party, good local economy is about enabling local communities, our regions and our counties to deliver the services that citizens demand. That's exactly why we've been elected to this room – to provide an economic setup that makes it possible to meet the wishes of the inhabitants. Let it be clear: the arrangement that the government is now delivering is a tight scheme. It does not provide for the full funding of reforms and norms that this government has set up. It is worth noting that, although the majority of the room agrees that framework funding is the main instrument for financing the local government sector, it is not that when discussing norms one should be able to discuss the level of service received by each individual citizen. Then you have to attach it to a single number associated with a municipality – that is, how many employees there are in the municipality. So one connects it to the municipal reform and to numbers. There's a connection that the Center Party can't get behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1546	There are many things you might want to comment so far out in the debate. I am amazed that the opposition seems so little to recognise that the municipalities have actually had an income growth in recent years, and that this community structure provides good support for good welfare services, more sustainable social development and a stronger local self-government. We all know that there is a more worrying international situation. The oil price and demographic development make us face tougher times. We need to create new values and find better solutions to carry out welfare tasks. We also know that changes in demographic and population composition are different in the municipality of Norway, and that the differences between municipalities in capacity and competence to provide good welfare services will be reinforced if we are not willing to look at the structure. It also has to take over the opposition. When the Workers’ Party’s representative Aasrud refers to the Right’s saying ‘People, not billions’, it is just a good example of how by taking action we ensure better welfare services, while the sole solution of the Workers’ Party seems to be to push millions into the municipal budget. I actually took the floor to comment on the Labour Party representative Lauvås, who said in his first post that he believes the government is so bad for the local economy that the only solution is property tax. Then I have to remind you that things are going well in Kommune-Norway. We have heard many examples of this. Municipalities have action rooms, larger now than in the previous period. We've heard that we have to go back to the 1990s to find equally good economic results, and the ROBEK list we're not talking about anymore. Our municipal politicians will always have higher ambitions, and will have it, but with it also comes the need to prioritise. Of course, in some places there are special issues to be taken into account, but drawing the conclusion for the municipal sector as a whole that it is the municipal economy under this government that is the reason for the introduction or increase of property taxes, I think, with respect to reporting, is to draw it far too far.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1561	Of course, there is a correlation between the income that the municipalities have and the tasks they have to do. Where the municipalities do not receive sufficient income, inter alia: through transfers from the country, they must find income elsewhere. The municipalities have no oil fund to pick up, as the government that sits today has been very good at state level – the municipalities have to do local priorities to solve their tasks. There are increasing numbers of municipalities, including municipalities where the Right and Advance Party are in position, which have introduced property taxes and which have increased property taxes in recent years. The government will now tighten the screw further and limit the revenues of the municipalities in the future, despite increasing tasks. But there is obviously one type of municipality to let go, and not just let go, but encouraged by improved economy. It's the municipalities that do what the government wants, the municipalities that want to merge. The representative, Bjørnstad, was up here earlier today and spoke warmly and with great experience on how to contribute through the income system to facilitate further municipal mergers. Clearly, both in the reform of the municipality and in the reform of the region, the philosophy of the government parties, and the definition of the voting rights of the government parties, are the right way to vote. If you vote incorrectly, you have to be forced into action, either through economic instruments or through purely coercive decisions. The Council of State is standing on the pulpit here today and says that the municipal reform should continue. This is where municipal politicians spend hours and hours on investigations and consulting reports throughout the previous ageing period, and they have used both their employees and political resources to assess the issue of community mergers. The vast majority of the municipalities have stated that they will remain as their own municipalities. So the government's answer is that it's going to continue the process during this period. It's a very unwise policy. It is also very unwise, what happens in many contexts where existing, well-functioning municipalities are partyed by so-called border adjustments. It is therefore important, the proposal put forward by the Centre Party in this Chamber today, that questions of border adjustments where there is disagreement between the municipalities concerned should be addressed by the Stortinget. That's very wise. We can see examples, for example: in my own home country, Akershus, where the counsellor in Sørum says that if there is a border adjustment where parts of Sørum go to Nes, it will lead to school closure in Sørum. Similar examples are seen in many other places. It is very important for that proposal to be voted on and for us to have an impact on the proposal presented by the Central Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1572	I have received many visits from the government parties today that I will try to answer. But there are some of them I don't understand. The representative Tveiten Benestad said something like that she was disappointed or surprised that the Central Party is voting against proposals to move power and authority out into the country, but I have no idea what she is actually aiming for. The central party has promoted most of the proposals to move tasks to the states, and we have voted in favour of the few proposals that the government parties have promoted regarding municipalities, although there are tasks that really mean neither power nor authority. Trellevik believed that the centre party was wrong when we claimed that it had been transferred from small to large municipalities, and he even said that it was rather the opposite. In fact, when it comes to the conversion of the income system, all municipalities have won over 25 000 inhabitants on that conversion. In the 2000–25000 group, 51 municipalities have taken a positive turn and 239 municipalities have taken a negative turn. It's factual information. In the proposal for the conversion of cost-balancing, the government itself indicates that light-powered municipalities will have a little more, and the heavy-duty counties and municipalities will have a little less added. That's what the proposition says. In addition, if we are going to deal with the punishment that voluntary, small municipalities have suffered from a significant decrease in income, it is quite clear that I have proof of what I am saying. Trellevik said that we subsidize the districts from the big cities, and moved on per capita. Yeah, that's just supposed to be missing. Is there anyone who believes it is possible to provide municipal services for 2,000 inhabitants in a municipality of 2000 km 2 for the same sum that one should provide municipal services for a housing law of 2000 inhabitants in Oslo? Then I'm really starting to fool. And where are the values created? The value creation takes place in the districts. The county rapporteur in the South-Tronde Team said it that way once, I think that if there had been a wall built around Oslo, he was convinced that the chlorine marks had come on the inside first. I actually think we still have a cover for that. Trellevik was also concerned that the transportation effort in the districts was so amazing. KS suggests that the maintenance seat run on the county roads increases by 1.5 billion. kr per year – it increases by 1.5 billion. per year. The answer from the government is that we're going to have an increase in the county budget of minus 100 million. NOK or plus 100 million. kr. This is not a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1588	It's been talked about here that the situation is so incredibly bright in the municipalities, while some people say it's incredibly dark. I actually think that the truth is a little bit in between, and that the picture is nuanced. It's not just glory and joy out in the municipalities, but it's not just misery, because there's an incredibly good development work going on. It's great creativity and efficiency, and a key here is digitization, which is incredibly important, and which visualizes very well that the municipal sector is constantly changing. It's not static, it's changing, and new times may have new needs. Then we can't have a structure that's static all the time. One must be able to change the structure of the needs. But this change in the municipal structure should be voluntary. It shouldn't be coerced. It is used against the changes that the government has instruments for municipalities that will merge. I think it is very high that there are good instruments if the communities and municipalities themselves see that there is to be some action here because they cannot stand alone. I don't see any contradiction in that. In fact, we don't need new tasks for the municipalities. There's more than enough of these problems. What is important is that new tasks come to the regions. Stein Erik Lauvås said that it was incomprehensible and incomprehensible that the Christian People's Party was involved in this. It is no more incomprehensible than that the gentlemen Jens Stoltenberg and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum ten years ago preached all over the country exactly the same ideas about the decentralization of power and good district policy. It stranded on fragmented treatment and that the statesmen and bureaucrats would not. I really hope that the Center Party will do the exact same thing right now. The Right Party and the Advance Party are also accused of not wanting to have the third level. How many times is it going to be said? There is a decision in the Stortinget that we should have three levels of government in Norway, and the government has rightly said that it should follow up loyally, most recently from the Council of State, which here today said that of course she will present an overall case on this to the Stortinget by 15 October. Yes, we have a good job ahead of us. But what was involved in the last regional reform, I really hope today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1597	The government is committed to strengthening kindergartens and has therefore adopted and implemented several important measures to succeed. We have received a pedagogical norm, a standard of personnel, a new strategy of competence and early work already in kindergarten. This will help our children get a better day of kindergarten and ensure that all children have an equally good kindergarten. The reason why I am now taking the floor in this debate is part of the comments that have been made on the introduction of the new recruitment standard. Now, for the first time, we are legislating a standard of personnel in kindergarten, which has been strongly desired by everyone in the sector, as many parties have wanted, and which has been announced for years. This government now has this in place – two years in advance. It's a pleasure. The new standard has therefore been notified since the Kindergarten Law Committee in 2012, and the government of Stoltenberg proposed this in 2013. What surprises me is how some parties that were part of the red-green government can stand here and demand a different funding of this norm, when today's government lays down exactly the same principles – the same standard figure and the same basis for calculating funding – as the Stoltenberg government did. These batches are now clearly in opposition to what they were for when they were put in position. It is quite right that Kristin Halvorsen said in 2013 that there had to be more money on the table before the municipalities could introduce the norm. But it wasn't because Kristin Halvorsen and the Red-Green government created a different funding and a different calculation basis. It was simply because there were several employees lacking in kindergartens at that time. On the same basis as today, it could not be said that there were enough employees in kindergartens that the norm could be fully funded. But today we can. Three out of four municipalities have therefore taken the signals from 2012 and 2013 and have given priority to increasing the number of employees in kindergartens. So there are some municipalities that have not prioritised it, but with today's municipal economy, I fully agree with my colleague Åshild Bruun-Gundersen in the Education and Research Committee that it is time for the municipalities to put their priorities on it. I fully agree with what some former municipal politicians have said earlier today, that municipalities should ensure that all citizens have a good life – in addition to statutory tasks. I have to say, however, that when the former rapporteur in Ski complains about poor municipal economy and says that she has not had the opportunity to provide more employees in the kindergartens, while the municipality spends money on sponsoring electric bicycles to the inhabitants, spends 100 000 kroner on bird boxes and spends millions of dollars on neighborhood shelters, I am stunned. This, I believe, is a good example of the fact that a different priority has actually been chosen and not bet on staffing in kindergartens. That's okay, but then the criticism also sounds quite hollow.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1612	In the spring we had a big public debate about cutting down in the bedtime for midwives. Hospital plans for women with normal birth to go home six hours after birth. It's the municipalities that have to take responsibility for maternity. The problem is that the municipalities are not informed and that the government does not take this into account in the financial structure of the municipalities. The same thing happens in the care of the elderly. According to the Riksrevision cut Norwegian hospitals 308 000 lay every day from 2010 to 2014 after the introduction of the cooperation reform. Nearly half of this reduction has come for people over 80 years of age. As a result, crippled elderly people tend to experience irresponsible short laytime in hospitals. However, State Council Höie has confirmed in Stortinget that this planned the reduction of bed capacity in Norwegian hospitals will continue – and that goes beyond the municipalities. Oslo University Hospital is an example of this. In the plans for the construction of a new large hospital in Gaustad, they reduce the number of beds on the basis of the fact that 50,000 lie-days per year are to be transferred to the municipality of Oslo. The problem is that the municipality of Oslo does not know about it and does not get extra money for it. According to the Riksrevision, the Norwegian municipalities, following the implementation of the cooperation reform, have been good and received more patients than before, but without any increase in the capacity of the municipalities. The location of Norwegian patients in hospitals is now among the shortest in Europe. Local authorities are currently collapsing, much because of this. According to a KS report, Norwegian municipalities are now allowed to subsidise the State fixed scheme by 400 million. kr per year because funding fails. This gap between responsibility for health and funding in municipalities should cause much more concern to this committee and to the municipal minister than to what appears to be doing. So in this situation, the government will introduce municipal liability for so-called out-of-print patients in the field of drugs and mental health. But it's hard to define what a clear patient is when it concerns these patients, and it's hard to define what costs will be. So one of the government's proposals is to take between 150 million. SEK and 220 million. kr from the hospital, which already has a pressed economy. The centre party has a proposal where we oppose this being introduced in 2019. There should also be more votes in favour in the House today. It is a political responsibility to correct the imbalance I have described, and this responsibility does not take the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1625	I guess I got so far in the previous post that I was told that the first thing this government did was to lose Northland for 284 million. kr annually, and that it now appears to be further dwindling. For example, when representatives from the Right and the Advance Party in the Nordic countries complain about moving in services to people in the county, they point out. at the Centre Party, saying that the parties which govern them cannot be given priority. That's why I want to tell you a little bit about how the priority is. The priority is e.g.: as follows: 1 pst only. of the budget goes to policy, control and governance. 43 pst. attends the important training of young people. 42 pst. It is important for people who are going to work, at school, to doctor or for business in a county that extends 800 km north to south along the road and has 25 pst. of the coast of Norway. Of these 42 pst. Go for approx. 19 pst. for boat, 27 pst. for ferries – i.e. almost 47 pst. for boats and ferries – 35 pst. to county road and 18 pst. for car routes. Of course, all democratic levels of governance must look at their own priorities. In fact, it is the choice of priorities that characterise politics and that characterise the government. We're actually used to that. However, when, for example, a state such as Nordland does not receive a price-adjusted regional grant and receives a real decline in revenue, the government parties must also see that the framework is getting tighter and that it goes beyond the provision of services. More district policy, turning this centralisation into more district policy, will increase value creation in North Norway. The NHO got a report in 2015, and that report showed that if we do exactly the opposite of what's happening today – today, centralization is speeding up, and that will reduce value creation by 11 billion. kr in North Norway in 2040 – if we turn around and increase investments in the north, more district policy will lead to an increase in value creation of 20 billion. NOK 2040. It's very important to increase transfers to North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1638	The representative, Stein Erik Lauvås, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1643	The representative Tveiten Benestad claimed that the municipalities are doing well. Yeah, you could say that. With errors of calculation from the government and property tax, you can do that. The government is not responsible for local authorities introducing property taxes. No, the government cannot be responsible for that. It's up to the local government itself. But that the local government does so is a consequence of the government's economic policy towards the municipalities, so there is responsibility for the government and the Right. Therefore, greater priority must be given to the local economy. There is a large part of this debate today. The Workers' Party's proposal up to 4 billion. kr more to the municipalities in 2019 had been a good contribution, but it will not be the Right and Advance Party. They will also force municipalities to continue to levy property taxes. It cannot be left to the right and the representative of Tveiden Benestad. The Government's proposal itself confirms this: it is zero growth in municipalities in 2019. This is how the country is governed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1651	Thank you for a long and committed debate. That's good, because the theme is important. Let me just give you some answers to questions that have been asked. Is it possible to lower the property tax and improve the service provision? Yes, it does. There is no connection between property taxes and services. It is possible to take over a municipality from ROBEK with full chaos in the economy and full chaos in the service offer, clean up, leave that municipality after ten years and have removed the property tax and improved the service offer. I guess that's a choice you make. The same municipality currently has a maximum property tax and a maximum number of directors. It's also a choice you make. Then I've got some visits to this letter that has left the department. I would like to quote the letters and tables we have sent over, but it would have been nice if you quoted the letter correctly. What it says is that in red-green years, from 2005 to 2013, the growth was 1.8 pst. From 2013 to 2017, the growth was 2.1 pst. Then they've asked about the growth from 2013 to 2019. Then it says 1.4 pst., with a footnote, and it says explicitly in the text that the estimates are uncertain. For estimates is not the same as safe figures. Of course, you can compare apples and bananas, but you don't get any more correct answers for that reason. Estimates also form the basis for the figures shown in respect of taxes. It's not a calculation error, it's an estimate. History shows that estimates can be made or not, whether there is a red-green government or a bourgeois government. The representative Karin Andersen was involved in the relationship with small municipalities with few inhabitants. Is it getting better because they're getting bigger? Of course it will. It is much better that in a municipality there are three employees in child protection than that there is only one. The challenge for municipalities with few inhabitants is that the population is getting older and that there is becoming fewer and fewer active. And what's the answer to that? The answer is to make sure that people can live there, that people can work there. Then you actually need a local government that can work on it. There are many municipalities not able to do so. It amazes me how to celebrate intercommunal cooperation. You think it's great with a psychologist, with a doctor, with child protection, but not with a community house. Our inhabitants have a lot more use for good psychologists in their lives than municipal homes. There's something about the choices you make, how you behave. The municipal map is not written for the next 50 years. The local map needs to be changed. Because the challenges are there, and they're not going to go away at all. That's why it's really nice that you've spent time and resources talking to your neighbor. But that neighboring talk has to go on. This is absolutely necessary for the sake of our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1666	It is clear that the government parties are more interested in talking about the municipal reform than about the financial arrangement. There is no one here who has responded to the biggest challenge raised during the hearing: How are municipalities supposed to be able to finance the nursery code without harming the care of the elderly? Neither the state council nor any of the others have been involved in this. What has been repeated most often here today are ‘larger and stronger municipalities’ — as if there is a context. Perhaps we would rather say ‘major or stronger municipalities’? We are talking about having resilient municipalities. There is no doubt that the smallest municipalities are much more adaptable than the large ones. We need more efficient municipalities, it's said. Can someone tell me how the efficiency gain for e.g. Children of municipality to be removed? It's going to be tremendously interesting to see. We need better interaction across the sectors, it is said. Yes, no one has as good cooperation as the smallest municipalities, precisely because it is unbureaucratic, transparent and simple. We must have good services for the inhabitants, it is said. Yes, of course. The survey shows that the smaller the municipalities, the better the citizens receive. Recruitment requires larger municipalities, it is said. It's just nonsense that recruitment is a small-scale community problem. I saw a look up in Trunder-Avisa this week. Trondheim has huge problems with the recruitment of nurses. There is a great deal of shortage of nurses in the municipal sector in Trondheim. There are many fewer applicants than job vacancies. My municipality of residence, which has 2,000 inhabitants, has four to five applications for each nursing position. This is not a small community problem. This is a problem for the local government sector. Community mergers do not change the geography of Norway, but it seems that many of those who have been here today are unable to take over. The average age of my municipality will not be lower if we join the neighbouring municipality. Had I been ten years younger, I should have even considered going in for a community merger. It's exactly the same challenges, there's the same number of nurses in Norway and the same number of 90-year-olds in Norway no matter what the community structure looks like. On the contrary, I believe that if we are to meet the challenges in the future and be able to deliver good services to the citizens, equivalent services wherever they live, we are dependent on having a differentiated municipal structure. We're dependent on having a municipal structure that's adapted to the geography in Norway. Finally, there are several people who have said that in the case of the states, we have to merge Troms and Finnmark in order for them to do the problems. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1691	Time's up. The representative, Willfred Nordlund, has spoken twice before and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1698	I noticed with interest that the Council of State was a little selective when she referred from the table, because if we look at the table as a whole, it says that the annual percentage growth in the free income of the municipal sector between 2005 and 2013 was 1.8 pst. From 2013 to 2018, provided that the tax estimates meet at the 2018 intervals, the growth was 1.5 pst. The councils chose to stay out of it in 2018 when she answered. It's of course convenient, but it doesn't change the fact that it's a tight economic setup, and that it seems to be getting tighter in the future, while the needs are increasing and not least the demands of this room are increasing. Measurements are made to force changes in the structures out there, without necessarily providing better services for individuals. But of course, it's a lot easier and a lot easier to do math for the future with the norms you're using.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1705	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1710	First of all, I think the Council of State will have to take on board the fact that there are also municipalities in South Norway that are as large as Vestfold. After all, it cannot be the case that home help and child protection should have to use helicopters to make progress during working hours. The second thing I want to say about is a system that goes to people in the municipalities who have disabilities, which is called ‘user-led personal assistance’. It has been legislated, but it has become worse, because some of the things the municipalities do when they want to save money are not to comply with this law as it was intended. I notice that representatives of the government parties and the supporting parties will not talk so much about the quality of the services, but they will, because that is why we are doing this. That is why I now call on the Stortinget to vote in favour of the proposal No. 17-19. It is absolutely necessary if we are to ensure that the inhabitants of the municipalities, including those with disabilities, are able to live equal and independent lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1719	I would also like to add some comments to some articles. Jonas Gahr Støre started his post by confirming the claim I made in my post, where I claimed that every time the Workers' Party talks about poor finances, the care of the elderly is to be cut. So Støre said the exact same thing: if there was a little less money, the care of the elderly and other vulnerable groups had to be the ones who had to suffer. Of course it's not like that. There are a lot of ways you can spend the money, and it's about prioritizing. But it's not always about little money, because in Oslo property taxes have been introduced. Oslo has been doing very well for decades without property taxes, but when the Workers' Party took over, they immediately introduced property taxes and have a huge profit. At the same time, they take in all that money, they remove very, very many sick homes. So here you cut in old age care whether you get more money or less money. Lauvås is very happy that he has forced the government to come up with an overall issue about the division of tasks. I won't take away his joy, but it's a unanimous committee that wants to get a collective case on it, so there's no disagreement about it. So Karin Andersen has been involved in health surveillance and developmentally impaired. I fully agree with that. It's not the first report we've received on the developmentally impaired, it's been a problem as long as I've been at Stortinget. They are not granted their rights. They must not choose their own life. It is not a problem that has now arisen. I am absolutely convinced that this is not about money. This is about bad attitudes, and it is about bad local politicians, because it is what we need to give priority to is this. I've met with retarded people who, with their disability, have bought their own apartment, and who live a good life with BPA, because the municipalities prioritize it. This is about being concerned about it in the communities, and we have to be better at pointing to those who are responsible. Because even if we send more money, that doesn't mean that that money goes to what we actually want. We see that with BPA. Many have said that the BPA system has become very good for them, but I have gone into individual matters in the municipality after the municipality. Here's the employee who thinks they know best what's best for the individual. They believe that practical assistance and home help and support contact are better. They don't want BPA. Again: These are bad attitudes and bad local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1734	This debate demonstrates that we are all very concerned about the municipalities, and that the municipalities' offerings are engaging. Map to the regional reform and the representative Tveiden Benestad: it can’t be a surprise that the Workers’ Party is involved in the regional reform. Repeatedly, we have made concrete proposals on the tasks to be transferred, including: are many of the proposals that have been considered and discussed by the Committee of Experts set up by the Government, as the Labour Party has previously proposed. When it comes to the community reform, someone's trying to put us in that booth that we're against it. No, we're not against making changes that are necessary, but what we've been against in this municipal reform is the idea that we know the very best here in the house, when you haven't been able to explain what gains you're going to make, and what new tasks and authorities the municipalities are going to have. That is why we have stuck to the principle of volunteering and are supporting the vast majority of mergers that are taking place, including those that will be voluntary. It's obvious that once again we hear this rhetoric that every time you try to criticize something that's not good enough in this country, it's black paint. No, in my post I used a lot of sequences to say that Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in, and the municipalities are very central to it. One of the reasons is that we have 11,000 regional and local elected representatives who want nothing but the best for their citizens. Our job here is to give them good enough framework conditions, and then we get into the economy. The right is now trying in this debate to reduce our framework, which is 3 to 4 billion. kr in addition to the government framework, to the local government sector and says that 1 pst. will fix everything. No, it doesn't, but it's a different direction, and it's a different idea than what the government parties stand for, because we think, as the government says, you can't tighten up the local economy to push forward changes. We are committed to providing space for action, so that municipalities can invest in employees, so that they can invest – because you can't spare yourself out of the problems, you have to invest out of the problems – in order to get more efficient structures. We have to give them room for action to develop their municipality in order to meet the modern requirements, for example. digitalisation, which is widely agreed here in the Chamber that the local government sector has challenges associated with it. Then I registered that the representative Kjønaas Kjos was inside that the Progress Party locally will always give priority to care for the elderly in front of the town hall. Then Kjønaas Kjos gets to take a phone call to Bodø, because that is where – quite correctly, I believe – the town hall actually needs to be upgraded, because it is, among other things, about. on the working environment of employees and the need to be well managed. Finally, I think we all in this room can be a little bit careful with being categorical. There are very many who are very satisfied on behalf of the results that the government believes have achieved, but there are many realities out there, and neither is it certain that everything is perfect in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1751	To continue where I left off: there are many of the representatives who have been very clear that Finnmark and Troms have to merge, because the smallest state is limiting for which tasks we can transfer to the counties. No one has provided a single example of what Finnmark is too little to take over today, and none of the tasks proposed by the expert committee, which Finnmark is too little to take over. Then it was said that there has been little discussion about district policy. When Engen-Helgheim described the fantastic district policy to the government, it was a little difficult to follow along in the swings. Regional development funds are halved and so on. There is zero to bet on the county road in this budget, and there has been absolutely no bet on the maintenance seat run on the county road during this period. It is less for district municipalities, and it is less for something that is perhaps the most important infrastructure measure for district municipalities, namely broadband and mobile development – it is greatly reduced. Road and rail have been given priority from the districts to the central struts. I record that the Trondheims region has also become district, because the Trønderbanen has also been put on hold. That's actually how you can keep on in the know and the wide. Of course, the fuel tax is the most applicable in the districts where you are totally dependent on a car. We've had increased predatory conflicts, we've had restrictions on municipal freedom in terms of snowmobile dispensations, etc. I think we can sum up that it will still be a tight arrangement for the municipalities. It will be particularly tight for small municipalities and district municipalities, and it will be very bad – even in 2019 – for those municipalities that are so-called voluntary small. Community integration will continue to address all challenges in the municipal sector. New tasks do not need to be fully financed, because we need more community pooling. We can keep going on that rule all the time. The centralisation must continue, it must be taken a little bit from the small municipalities in each budget, and the municipalities must be pressed to join forces. Now what we can call voluntary coercion, the new grip that we see in the whole country, where border adjustments of small municipalities make them even smaller, and then in the next round they have to be forced to join the neighbouring municipality. And all of this is to be reinforced by the fact that the statesmen are going to continue to press against the municipalities. Kommune-Norge has asked for employment now. We want work to develop services further, we want work to do business development in our own municipality. Please: Give the municipalities the rest of the work they have asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1766	The representative of Ove Trellevik has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1771	This is most of a explanation of vote: the Right and the Advance Party do not support proposal No. 20, the loose proposal that is making today, and the reason is that we have full confidence that the government is handling this matter in a very good way. She's been listening, and I'm totally overconfident that the government is going to work hard and do well on this matter. So there's absolutely no reason to support this proposal. So I'm totally listening here that Eirik Sivertsen from the Labour Party mentions that they represent a different direction in their budget proposal and in their proposals. But I really must say that the debate here today has actually shown that the Labour Party is breaking up in all directions of heaven. So the direction he's talking about, he has a great educational task and challenge in being able to explain the rest of his party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1779	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1784	To replicate to the last speaker: I understand that we have challenges in getting parts of the audience to perceive the message, but we're going to work on that further, and we're going to repeat that message until it sits with everyone. But I asked for the floor for a small explanation of vote, because there is one thing that has not been very highlighted in the debate today, and it is linked to the need to re-examine the basis for the income system of the municipalities. It's now getting to be 10-15 years since we had two different samples working on this, and it's time to review it again. That is why we have put forward a proposal on this in the vote. It does not differ so much from the proposal by the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, so we will vote in a subsidiary way for proposal No. 1, when we don't get a majority for our proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1791	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1807	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1816	The case concerns wage adjustments in the State tariff area with effect from 1 May 2018. There are different views in the Committee on the system that the government has now chosen to continue, and I expect the government parties and the supporting parties to justify their position. SV, the Labour Party and the Center Party want to express our disagreement when we have gone into that line of developing a policy with two different collective agreements, and that has become more different in this round than they were in the previous round, without figuring out the consequences. There are several things that concern the way the government has developed this area, and one of the serious conditions here is the kind of effect this has on the striker, when more and more of the wage formation is shifted from the central to the local level, because it is only at the central level that there is strikerette. It is therefore worrying that this happens without having gone into it on a principle basis from the state, and whether this is a desired development, as we have seen. It's easy to think that this is an acceptance from the government because you want pay systems where there's a bigger pay gap in the state, and that's going to be it. When you have a pay agreement that adds more of the money to the local settlements, there will be greater pay differences between different employee groups in government tariff areas, which we are talking about now. This must be seen in conjunction with the overall employer policy and the overall management wage and management discussion that is ongoing in parallel with this matter. A framework for wage developments has also been adopted, but it does not seem exactly to be able to slow down any of this in government activities, and that is worrying. Therefore, there is no consensus in the Committee on the direction of government policy in these wage negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1825	I am pleased that there has been an agreement on the main settlement of the year through an agreement with the parties. The agreement with the Academics has also brought about a historic modernisation of the pay system, and the parties have agreed that the entire pay pool should be negotiated locally. I trust that local employers and trustees locally can find good solutions to distribute the pay pot, so that they can recruit and keep good employees. In the agreement with LO State, Union and YS State, the parties have also agreed that half of the available funds should be allocated to local distribution. In addition, the parties have committed themselves to continuing their work in modernising the pay system in the country in the next period. We're happy with that overall. It is true that two different collective agreements have been negotiated once again, but it is not new that there are different collective agreements, nor in the public sector. For several years, there have been parties to several different agreements in addition to the Main Agreement on Tariffs, for example: The workshop agreement in the Defence and Agreement on the pattern of seafarer personnel in the Cartwork. Around the municipality of Norway there are also many different collective agreements. The reason for that may not be very strange either, because it is the result of a completely fundamental freedom of agreement that the parties have. Individual organisations have an independent right to negotiate and individual employees, or civil servants, have freedom of organisation. I feel that there is a consensus that this is still going to be the case, and then the consequence must also be taken: the freedom of agreement that exists may result in the negotiation of two different collective agreements. These main tariff agreements are essentially equivalent to the previous ones, but there are different systems of central and local recognition. Employers and trustees can work together to recruit, develop and maintain good employees. Local parties may use a number of different instruments and may better pursue these considerations than those at the centre. Nor is it true that the striker's rights have changed as a result of it; the striker's rules are established. It is good that core tariff agreements have been reached that are more flexible and that allow local parties to also have greater scope for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1838	I note with interest that the previous speakers had confidence that this should be done locally through local wage negotiations, while the confidence that part of the municipalities should organise the services in an appropriate way, is not there, echo the previous debate. It is positive that a result was also negotiated by the parties in the wage settlement for government employees. The year-on-year increase is now 2.8 pst. for most employees. This is a result that both employees and the country should be able to live with. In the Central Party, however, we are not satisfied that the government has contributed to the development of two pay systems in the state tariff area; one for LO State, YS State and Union, and one for the Academics. It is legitimate for organisations on the part of employees to have different priorities, but there is also the situation in other tariff areas. On the other hand, it is very unfortunate that the government has helped us to have jobs in the state where we now have two different pay systems for employees, based on the organisation in which they are organised. The centre party points out that, through the agreements that have been concluded in recent years, we have deviated from the principle of Norwegian wage formation that it should be equal pay for equal work. That this happens in the state tariff area is very unfortunate. The state is responsible for our national income policy and should not take the lead in changing the principle of equal pay for equal work. The proposal we have put forward should be widely supported, so that we can take care of important principles of income policy. The central party asks that the government carry out the wage settlement in the country on the next revision of the core tariff agreement so that we can once again have similar core tariff agreements with the parties, and thus ensure that we follow the principle that we have had equal pay for equal work, regardless of the kind of organisation in which they are organised.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1851	I am very pleased that we have reached an agreement on the main settlement of the year in the state through agreements with the parties. Tripartite cooperation is essential to ensure the good Norwegian welfare society, and the government will further develop that cooperation. It is necessary that the framework for government tariffs is laid down by the central parties in order to contribute to responsible wage developments ensuring employment in both the private and public sectors. The year’s settlement is determined in line with the frontal subject’s 2,8 p.m. framework. However, once the framework has been set, it is important that the various national businesses are allocated their own resources in negotiations with local trustees. Activities are different and have different challenges and opportunities. I am also pleased that the parties agree that a significant share of the pay supplements should be allocated to local distribution. I am also pleased that we have implemented important simplifications, including: by reducing the number of wage frameworks to one in the agreement with the Academics, and by agreeing with the LO, the UN and the YS to continue working on further modernisation and simplification of the pay system. Moreover, the two agreements are essentially similar in terms of social and economic conditions. I note that the members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will have the Stortinget's decision that the next main settlement, in 2020, will result in one main tariff agreement. To this I would say that freedom of organisation and negotiation is an important principle of employment in Norway. Employees are free to organise themselves in different associations, which remain free to negotiate agreements on behalf of their members. It is a long tradition to respect the fact that wage negotiations are the responsibility of the parties in each settlement. Untying the outcome of future wage negotiations would be contrary to contractual freedom. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee subscribes to the proposal submitted by the Government, in line with the agreements concluded by the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1866	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1871	Let me first say thank you to the case rapporteur for a thorough account of the position that the Workers' Party is also taking. There is no doubt about freedom of negotiation and freedom of organisation, but it is absolutely legitimate that the Stortinget, which also has a responsibility for the government's employer policy, has views on the direction in which we are going to develop it. We have expressed concerns about the consequences of a shift in wage formation from a central to a local level. My question to the Council of State is: How does she assess the impact on workers' right to strike and, where appropriate, other rights as a result of a shift in wage formation from central to local level?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1878	I do not dispute the Sovereigns of Storting's right to believe anything in this matter. Of course, Stortinget has every right. What would concern me was if the Storting dictated the outcome of the wage negotiations between the parties. We have different organisations with different assessments and different priorities. We do that through the negotiations we have with the parties, and we live very well with two agreements in the state. We also live very well with a larger part of the distribution happening out there. A more modern pay system is being demanded. We have competent leaders who are fully capable, together with local trustees, of looking at local conditions, recruitment, empowerment and how to develop the business. This does not conflict with the strike right that you have, of course, and the game rules that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1885	First, whether the Storting dictates or not: I perceive that the Storting is now clarifying a position on what is a desired development. Then, of course, it's to be negotiated, and as I said instead: it's freedom of negotiation, it's freedom of agreement, but it's legitimate to have a position on a desired development. I noticed that the Council of State did not answer the question about her assessment of the consequences of shifting wage formation, so I'm going to ask another question. In our comments on this matter, we argue that this type of assessment should be made, and that these should form part of the basis before the next round of negotiations. The question to the Council of State will be: will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that such a type of impact assessment will be carried out in good time before the next negotiations, so that it will also be part of the assessment to be made at government level before negotiating with the workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1892	There are no plans to change the rules of the game or the strike rights you have. It's independent of whether or not any of the distributions happen, and it's agreed with the parties year after year. I think we have good rules for this, and I think all parties are well cared for through the system we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1898	It is legitimate for organisations, as I said, to have different priorities on the employment side, but that is also the situation in other tariff areas, and that is why the Centre Party has included in the comments we have made. You want to look at that development and think it's unfortunate, while we also want to take the lead, precisely because this is about how wage formation will be, and that the government has overall national responsibility for wage development and employment. Simplification referred to the State Council in its statement here, and the question really becomes: how simplistic is getting more agreements to deal with, assuming that there is still to be equal pay for equal work, and not necessarily related to which organisation you are associated with? The Council of States must be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1905	We live very well with two agreements in the state – we have seen that over the last few years. Different organisations and different sectors have different needs, and that is what this reflects. Then, of course, we make every effort to make equal work pay equally – it is also statutory – but different parts of the country have different challenges, and we have skilled leaders and skilled trustees who can see local conditions and use them as a tool. So I think this is a development we're going to see more of. We can't have a pay system based on yesterday's solutions, we're a world of change. It also has to be the pay systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1910	I'm a little worried when the Council of State pulls it up here. I think we can agree that we have to have a pay system that ensures that we're a society changing. The question here is more whether we are going to have a payroll system that makes it possible to build up under the possibility of having a different salary for equal work, because that's really what I think the government is going to call for. I'm a little worried, because this will have a transfer effect on the government management system when we start to see all the floors out there at the same time. If you're going to make different agreements based on the different local assumptions, is it also so to understand that the Council of State says that you're going to add up to an increased inequality in the government management pay system, as you've stated when you go in to have more main agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1915	We're not adding up to changes in the government management pay system. Then I register that the representative has a different view from that of both the parties and the state. Of course, that's okay, but what I've presented here today is an agreement between the parties to modernise, to move out some of the pay distribution locally, to different degrees then between the academics and the three others.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1920	There is no reason for the Council of State to use words such as dictate results, etc. It is permissible to discuss the overall responsibilities of employers and how they should be exercised, and it is good that a government council from the Right lives well with greater differences, but it does not become modern for that reason. One of the things SV has been concerned about is how wage developments are divided into sex. We can quickly end up in a system where we have more room for local wage negotiations, where this develops crooks ahead of what it has done. If so, what will the Council of State do to ensure that this is not the case? Because I really hope that the Council of State does not believe that through the way in which wage negotiations are now being conducted – I understand that the Council of State will have greater pay differences otherwise – there will be an even greater pay gap between women and men.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1925	It is, as I said, perfectly legitimate of the Stortinget to believe something about this and have comments on what you want. But if you expect one agreement and the parties want more, my point is that we have freedom of agreement, we have freedom of negotiation, and we have freedom of organisation, and that freedom is important to preserve. Then we have equal pay for equal work, and of course we're concerned with equal work. Wage formation does not occur in a vacuum, there is a development, and we are following that development. The issue is that in the case of the low pay group in the country, there are men and not women, different from, for example, women. other parts of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1932	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1950	It is a pleasure to be able to present a unanimous opinion of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the National Audit Office’s notification of the activities in 2017. The National Audit Office has submitted a full report, which well describes the work and activities of the National Audit Office in 2017. Work is important in order for the Storting to be able to exercise its control of government and administration in a good way. In particular, the Committee would stress the importance of the Riksrevisions conducting investigations and assessing materiality and risks across the departments. A significant part of the resources of the National Audit Office goes to corporate control. The control of the management of state companies for 2016 included a total of 105 companies and activities broken down into wholly and jointly owned companies, health enterprises, state enterprises, special-law companies and student partnerships. This is important. When the State organises important parts of its activity in companies, it must be a prerequisite for good corporate control. The National Audit Board has sent 10 management reports in the Document 3 series to Stortinget in 2017. These reports have put important issues on the agenda and are essential for the Storting to receive relevant information on the implementation and impact of public action. The recommendations of the National Audit Office mainly concern the need to develop more overall and knowledge-based governance, the need for ministries and businesses to make greater use of the space of action existing within given instruments, and the need to clarify responsibilities and strengthen coordination measures. It is positive that the Riksrevision is working on the development of a new Document 1. However, an overall committee underlines the importance of not being too sparse and fragmented. Document 1 is important in order to provide an overview of the issues to be addressed, but also in order to ensure that the Storting provides a realistic overview of the activities of the administration. The annual report shows that employee surveys have been carried out on staff exposure, working environment and cooperation as themes. The Committee assumes that the findings of these studies are followed up and form the basis for management's work to ensure a good working environment and a basis for positive communication. Finally, I would like to underline the importance of the National Audit Office's international commitment, work and activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1969	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e1985	The parliamentary or, if so, the democratic control of the secret services in Norway is carried out by the EOS Committee. The Committee shall ensure that the secret services balance the privacy of individuals with the security needs of society and citizens. This task has been selected for more than 20 years. Checks are essential for the services to have the necessary trust and legitimacy, on which they depend, in society. Checks now appear to be so accepted by the services that they are now unsolicited to inform about infringements. In addition, when one sees that there are a relatively low number of issues identified by the EOS Committee itself, there is much evidence that the services themselves are aware of their role, and that they are mainly operating within the legal framework that has been drawn up. The Committee notes that the rapid technological development of new forms of cross-border communication poses challenges for services. In particular, this applies to border digital defence, which is now under investigation in the government apparatus. In order to further develop cooperation between the PST, the NSM and the E service to address threats in the digital space, a joint cyber coordination centre was established in 2017. The Committee points out that international cooperation is increasing, especially in the area of counter-terrorism, and that it creates specific challenges, including: with the exchange of information with other countries on Norwegian foreign fighters. I am now going to say something about the individual services and issues affecting them, on which the Committee has some points of view. First I want to say something about PST. The sample has previously addressed the question of the use of surplus information in the prevention activities of the PST. In criminal matters, the Criminal Procedures Act will limit the processing of surplus information from communication control with specific erasure rules for data that cannot be retained. However, the rules of the Criminal Procedure Act have not been applied to the PST in prevention cases. The issue of profit information generated in prevention cases shall be protected in the same way as profit information provided in the ordinary criminal investigation. So the question is, what is the protection of this information? In the opinion of the Committee, it is difficult to see that there are good reasons for differences. Judicial and data protection considerations apply with even greater strength in the use of coercive measures in prevention cases than when coercive measures are used as part of the investigation of a possible criminal offence. Like the EOS Committee, the Committee considers that the rules for the treatment of surplus information from coercive agents for preventive purposes should be clarified in the context of the ministry's work on the processing of surplus information from communication control and more. The provision of clear and predictable rules for the use and storage of coercive data suggests that the processing of data from communication control is regulated specifically also in prevention cases. The Committee notes that there is some disagreement between the PST and the sample on the frequency with which Smart work registrations need to be reviewed and that the issue has been addressed with the Ministry of Justice and Security for clarification. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that the PST has challenges in complying with the legal requirements for erasure of data that can no longer be stored but that the PST has a project in place to address these challenges and problems. One last point I want to mention about the PST is the storage of information about Norwegian people in the database of the FBI's Terrorist Screening Center. The FBI has for several years stored data on Norwegian persons and persons associated with Norway for the purpose of identifying suspected or potential terrorists. In the past, the sample has stressed that it is problematic that information on these individuals is stored in the database, without knowing why they are registered. The Committee has repeatedly asked former Ministers of Justice to follow up the case with the US authorities and to provide an adequate response to the Storting when such clarification is available. So far there is no answer. The Committee has therefore asked the Ministry of Justice and Defence to re-examine the matter with the US authorities. I now want to go over to say something about the E-service. The Committee points out that, as a general rule, the E-service does not have the possibility to monitor or otherwise obtain information on Norwegian citizens residing in Norwegian territory. Nor can the e-service freely provide such information to Norwegian persons abroad. For the monitoring of Norwegian persons abroad, additional provisions are laid down. In the annual notice to the EOS Committee, it appears that, in exceptional situations, the E-service considers that persons holding Norwegian citizenship are not, however, regarded as Norwegian persons under the supplementary provisions and the internal authorisation regime resulting from the provisions. Examples include persons with dual citizenship who emigrate from Norway. The Committee agrees with the selection that, taking into account the democratic and parliamentary control of the monitoring of Norwegian citizens by the E-service, these too are considered Norwegian, irrespective of their relationship with other countries. This implies that they are subject to the additional provisions for the collection of the E service against Norwegian persons abroad and to the internal authorisation regime. If the E service considers that there is a need to clarify a territorial restriction, this should be considered in the context of a new law on the E service, which is under preparation. Finally, I would like to address points concerning NSM. The Committee welcomes the significant decrease in the process of clearing cases in recent years, as this has a significant impact on the professional career and life situation of those concerned. However, the appeal procedure has increased. The Committee has clear expectations that the clearing bodies will take action to reduce the time limit for review of appeals as well. Otherwise, it may be mentioned that the Committee's position is unanimous, and with that I recommend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2017	: Thanks to the rapporteur for a thorough and good explanation of the unanimous vote. I can join it, but will just briefly underline some of the points in the important work that we are doing here, and as the EOS Committee is doing. We have had the opportunity to compare the way we have organized this with how our colleagues in the Nordic countries do it, and we have basically come to the conclusion that we are pleased with the organisation we have chosen here in Norway, with the historical background of the creation of the sample. I agree with the case rapporteur, who stressed that it is a positive feature that even in some cases the services are notifying about things that have not been done entirely in line with the legislation. But I would like to stress that it must not mean that we relax when it comes to controlling the same services in the future. A major challenge that we are familiar with is technological development, which makes it difficult and challenging to follow up on services in a controlled manner. I would like to stress that we, the Storing, must be willing to provide both human resources and competences and other resources, which enable the EOS Committee to follow the technological developments that are taking place. Finally, I would just like to stress what the rapporteur went through in a thorough manner, namely our assessment of the management of surplus information from PST in preventive matters. I would like to underline and give my support to what the rapporteur said about it, and hope that it provides the necessary clarification that the committee needs as a basis for its further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2030	First, I would like to thank the case manager for his good work. We are in agreement in the committee, but I still have some comments. Never before have we that live in Norway, leave us as many tracks and information about what we do in the private as we do now. Nearly every day there are reports of how many people feel cheated, violated, or otherwise they have been uncomfortable as a result of being users of social media. In many ways, users of social media themselves can provide both intelligence and self-monitoring. But it's something completely different to sharing it one will, than sharing it one won't. Of course, there is a big difference between being monitored by the government and being monitored by followers of Instagram and Twitter. Perhaps it's precisely because the EOS selection's function and tasks are even more important than ever, because its citizens' almost unconscious use of new channels and media makes it easier for government powers to use the data that is outsourced. Document No 15, which was handed over to the Presidentship of the Storting on 28 March 1996, will for history always be one of the most important documents that has been handled here in Stortinget – and not least for the consequences it received. The Lund Commission's report revealed the unsolicited aspects of the Norwegian intelligence service. This is now 22 years ago – 22 years since good advice came on the road to secure the dishes for the residents of Norway. For this reason, it is the vote that the Ministry of Justice has not yet answered questions about how they follow up the Nordics who are listed in the overview of the FBI's Terrorist Screening Center. During the 22 years that have passed, the world has changed a lot, not least when it comes to who and what intelligence services focus on. The annual EOS selection report tells us clearly what the image is before us. The threats in the digital space have taken over as one of the most daring for all of us. With the speed of data development, we also need to have a flexible adaptation of the tasks of the EOS selection. But that overarching goal is firm. Not one of our inhabitants should be exposed to surveillance for no reason. The setting provided by the Committee and the annual report from the EOS Committee tell us about the findings. But it was also good to listen when the selection presented the message to us, that they thought they had good cooperation with the various services. But it should just be missing. One should expect services to facilitate the EOS selection in the most efficient way possible to ensure that it gets the information it needs and that it can do the work for us ordinary citizens in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2041	I found in many ways that both the post of the case spokesperson and the subsequent articles covered a lot of what I wanted to record. I just want to add some comments. We're in a situation where technology has never made it easier, easier or cheaper to operate with surveillance. We're looking about continuously with personal information and sensitive information in everyday life. Catching this up is getting easier and easier. Clearly, there are major challenges for the authorities and not least for the Agency’s control body, which will follow the way the secret services handle the deficiencies that are in the process of developing. I think we simply need to establish some principles for how to deal with this development. There is a tendency for authorities to allow the use of methods that challenge what is written in the law, because technology makes it possible and available. Then I would say that it is extremely important for the work of the EOS Committee in the future that one did not allow it to be a form of effusion. Technology use and the methodology used in these services must be governed by the law. The law does not apply to the methodology. What I think is a fundamental issue we see in several of the cases that the EOS Committee has raised, and that has been debated both in the public sphere and by EOS itself in their annual report, also in the past. Finally, I would just like to add that I look forward to seeing the Council of State clarifying the collection of information on Norwegian citizens by the FBI's Terrorist Screening Center, and whether there has actually been any contact with American authorities that have clarified that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2054	Initially, I would like to express my agreement with the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. It is very positive that the EOS Committee in the 2017 Annual Report expresses the fact that the services, including the PST, are now reporting unsolicited to the regulatory breach sample. I am sure that the PST sees the importance of the EOS Committee's task and control activities. The selection monitors and is essential for the confidence of the Storting and the population in the performance of the service. The legitimacy is essential for the intelligence and security service of a democratic country to carry out its tasks. We all depend on the PST performing its social mission in an offensive and good way. We also rely on them to be checked, and it can be confirmed that they stay within the limits of the law. I note that the Committee points out that the EOS Committee identifies a relatively low number of issues. That is of course positive, but I would like to point out that the annual report of the year also shows the eligibility of the EOS Committee. In addition, both individual cases and the overall work of the sample show that the sample performs its task as the Community's corrective function in a good way. I will also praise the annual conference sample, last held on 11 April of this year. Conferences have become an important venue for principal discussions in the open space of legal certainty and privacy in general, as well as for intelligence, monitoring and security services in particular. Increasingly more attention, more communication and more actions are being done as known in the digital space or in the interaction between the physical and digital part of our reality. This gives all people great opportunities and benefits. The possibilities are also used by those who don't want us well, and the threats in the digital space are becoming increasingly advanced and complex. Digital links and interdependent systems pose major challenges for the detection, prevention and management of attacks on our national security. The cooperation between the PST, the Intelligence Service, the National Safety Authority and the Kripos of a Joint Cyber Coordination Centre has already demonstrated its eligibility on several occasions in its first year. I see that this cooperation can lead to some new control challenges for the EOS Committee, and I record that the sample in the last year has been introduced to new staff with relevant competence. So I'm going to go to review the PST. The Committee mentions in its recommendation the regulation of the use of surplus information by PST obtained from intercepted discussions between the targeted and their related parties on prevention issues. I would just like to briefly mention here that the issue of the use of surplus information in criminal matters is for treatment. The Ministry follows up on the recommendation of the Committee. The Ministry has on several occasions sought to address with the US authorities the Norwegian concerns related to the processing of data on Norwegian citizens and persons related to Norwegian citizens. Terrorist Screening Database, however, is the United States register, and it has not been possible to obtain more adequate information so far. The EOS Committee was informed about this by letter of 19 March this year. In the light of the request made by the Control and Constitutional Committee, I would like to prepare a new contact with the United States authorities. I am in dialogue with the PST to obtain up-to-date knowledge about the database as well as about the real opportunities the Norwegian authorities can have to correct any errors in the database.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2073	EOS services have pointed out in their open threat assessments for 2018 that the threat picture is marked by a number of complex challenges. It is considered possible that terrorist attacks will be attempted in the current year. It is disclosed that both public and private enterprises will be targets for the intelligence services of other countries. These are some examples of the threats that the secret services are meant to protect us from. The complex challenges require more cooperation between services, examples of which are both the Joint Counter-Terrorism Centre and the Joint Cyber Coordination Centre. This cooperation is important, but also challenging, as the various services operate within different legal frameworks. I am therefore pleased that both the EOS Committee and the Committee express that the services are conscious of their role and legal framework. The Committee also points out that the services themselves provide unsolicited information on deviations to the sample and that there is a relatively low number of cases identified by the sample itself. This is positive. The Committee points out that the rapid technological development of new communication platforms poses challenges for services — and next rounds of control of the sample. This, combined with a complex threat picture with both state and non-state actors, is demanding. Increasingly more technologically advanced systems make information gathering and analysis easier, while making major demands for information management. The Committee refers to digital border defence, now under investigation, as an example of this development. The recent strengthening of the technological capacity and competence of the EOS Committee is good. This is important because the control must be appropriate to the control. Technology, and in particular the digital revolution, have created a large space for action, but the space for action also presents new challenges. This concern was already explained in the final comments of the Lund report. It was stressed that we were faced with a new era of modern technology, which has a great potential for monitoring and thus a great potential for rumors and speculations about services. Such a negative development between services and the public has not taken place, despite technological developments over the last 20 years. This technological development will continue at a high rate. It will therefore be our task to address these challenges so that we can maintain the good trust between services and the population. It is important that society has confidence that the legal framework for our intelligence service is clear and clear. The EOS Committee and the Committee have expressed the need to clarify certain aspects of the current law on intelligence. I'm serious about that. I am aiming for proposals for a new law on intelligence services to be sent to general consultations during 2018. The Ministry of Defence has invested a great deal of resources to draft a new law that will ensure a clear and balanced framework for the activities of the E-Service. I look forward to the forthcoming public debate on the draft law and to the fact that the Stortinget can be given a time-real and good treatment. The Committee has noted that the time taken for the clearance procedure by the national safety authority has fallen significantly, but that the time allowed for the proceedings on the appeals has increased. The Committee therefore expects that the time limit for the review of complaints should be reduced. During these days, the national safety authority has reported that the procedure for appeals has been reduced and that the status has now been reported as satisfactory. The Defence Security Department has also recently reported that the clearance procedure period is satisfactory. The clearance authority of the Defence Security Department is Norway’s most likely clearing authority and deals with around 18 000 cases per year. The audit carried out by the EOS Committee with the clearing authority concerns inter alia: issues for which clearance has been refused, reduced or suspended. In the 2017 Annual Communication, the EOS Committee did not comment on the procedure before the Clearing Authority. That's good. The Committee has strongly criticised the national safety authority for one safety clearance case. In this case, it turned out that there was no real need for clearing. That is, information was obtained about a person and an assessment of that person was carried out without a legal basis. A refusal of clearance was made, which meant that the person also lost the job. Neither the clearing house dealing with the case at first instance nor the national safety authority dealing with the case at second instance discovered this error. The national safety authority has recognised the seriousness of the situation. The error has been corrected, and the person has been reinstated in his/her position. Today’s legislation provides for the establishment to justify and document the need for clearing. Such documented justification was not available in this case and the clearing house should not have initiated the clearing process. This is known by the clearing authorities, the national safety authority and the activities requesting security clearance. This is because it has been assumed that there is a clearing need, without in fact having been adequately justified. There is therefore one positive thing that can be drawn out of this critical case, and that is the awareness that one cannot assume that the clearing need is real. Undertakings requesting clearance for their employees must verify that there is a real need for clearing, permitted by law. Clearing authorities must double-check that the company has done this job. This is important, and the responsibility lies with both the establishments and the clearing authorities. This responsibility is made clear in the legislation drawn up in these days, i.e. the regulation of the new Safety Act submitted to the Ministry in these days. Finally, I would like to underline the positive impact the sample has on the EOS services. In addition to the primary control function to the services of the sample, the sample also contributes to professional development. Challenges to critical services drive insight and competence in the future. This is a function we should be proud of in a liberal democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2111	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2116	Has the Ministry of Defence approved methods for the E-service which open up any information on Norwegian citizens in Norwegian territory?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2121	The answer is no. The e-service does not collect information on Norwegian persons on Norwegian territory. But there is one thing that is also reported in the report, where the technological development, as I have mentioned, gives us challenges with regard to the snapshots. It's a case that's been dealt with in the EOS Committee, and that we've notified that we're coming back to in the new e-law, to have a clear law in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2127	Let me ask the question in another way: has technological developments made it possible for one to act in such a way as to require a legal clarification in order to approve the future use of methodology for the collection of personal data on Norwegian citizens in Norwegian territory?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2132	We have also had this case before. We then explained that practice and that the E-service is based on the current law for the practice they have. Then critical questions have been asked about whether the law applies. We've taken that seriously. That is why we have started working on a new law, and – as I announced in my post – it will be sent to public hearings during 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2137	The reason why I ask is that I see a tendency that technological development is what is now challenging the promise, not that one looks at technology as a tool for realising the law. The technology can be used for anything, it is not specified that it has to be used in that way or that way. When the Council of State is now at the legislator's arena, the starting point is that the promise must be followed and the technology adapted to the laws, not vice versa. Is the Council of State in agreement with that principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2142	Yes, I agree with that principle. It is also true that we have explained that interpretation of the law makes us believe that the practice we have today is within. Then it is quite right, as the representative points out, that the technological challenge in many areas challenges the law, and then we have said that we have started working on a new e-law, so that we have to have a law that is also in line with those needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2147	Can the Council of State clarify what area of the promise of technological development is challenging?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2152	There have been discussions about previous possibilities for collecting information, among other things. challenges a law that was made at a time when you didn't have that opportunity. There's a great opportunity right now. And then it has to be clarified when that kind of information is collected, what is going to be practice with it. But as I have said before, and as I repeat now, we believe that the practice of the service is within the law. Nevertheless, we believe that technological challenges challenge the situation, and that is why we have started working on a new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2157	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The called alternate of the Telemark County, Christian Thinning Bjørnø, now takes the seat. At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court of Justice. 5 and 6 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2193	The mayor of the government – or the civilombudsman, as we often refer to the institution as – is the most important institution the Stortinget has seen down, precisely because he is created to take care of the individual in relation to the public system. We're not going to forget that this is a task that really belongs to Stortinget and the big business representatives. We are the ones to ensure that people are treated properly and according to laws and regulations. We're all residents and wives of the inhabitants of Norway. But because it is so complex and extensive, we have been equipped with expert assistance with mandates, our own ombudsman who will help us in this important work. That's why it's especially important that we follow the work properly. Since its inception in 1962, the Civilombodsman has had a broad mandate. The institution can investigate most of the types of cases and circumstances that public authorities have dealt with or decided on, and can handle cases both on complaint and on their own initiative. The Ombudsman has the right to require all types of information to be provided. The proceedings may end with a question from the Civilo Ombudsman, for example: whether the administration has breached the law, whether compensation should be provided, etc. As Stortinget's extended arm and trust person for Stortinget, the Civilombodsman is not part of the administration itself, so the questions from the Civilombodsman are not automatically legally binding. But the Stortinge suggested that the administration should comply with the statements of the Civilo Ombudsman, which have almost always been done. In those cases where the administration does not follow up the questions of the Civil Ombudsman, the Authority of Storting is directly involved. It'll be followed one by one. The role of the Civil Ombudsman has not become less important. I want to say that more and more aspects show that she is becoming more and more important. For most people, it doesn't make it easier to be briefed in laws and regulations, either as a private individual, a professional, a relative or a committed social person. Since the establishment of the Ombudsman, the number of regulations has more than doubled, according to figures from Law data. The most striking thing about development, however, is not the amount of regulations and rules, but the scope, complexity and language. Since 1877, the State has published the Norwegian Law, which contains all official publications of constitutional law, laws, regulations, etc. Here we see a clear development only in the last 30 years. The scope of Norsk Legtidend shows a jump of approx. 70 pst. in 1992, and it remains at this high level until 1996. Until 2003, the volume has increased sharply and has continued at the same high level to our time. It is not primarily the number of laws that have increased, because old laws expire when new ones are adopted, but the number of pages in the Norwegian Law magazine has increased significantly. So promises and rules in this society are becoming increasingly complex and comprehensive. Jan Fridthjof Bernt has previously stated that the increase in the scope of laws and regulations – both in terms of quantity and complexity – is becoming a serious social problem. He said in 2013: ‘The amount of regulations makes it increasingly difficult to keep the picture and maintain the coherence of the system — both for citizens and for the administration itself.’ He also pointed out that the language is also an important problem – that tribal languages, technical disciplines and a specialist language adapt specialized bureaucrats characterize the legislation common people should conform to. According to Law data, there are no signs that these developments have been slowed down in recent years – that is rather the opposite, it continues with unreduced strength and force. If we had sat down and looked at how many laws and regulations a coastal fish today have to comply with to keep their business under law, to avoid fines and even exclusion, we would be horrified. The Civil Ombudsman is present for individuals in meeting this ever-increasing sea of laws, regulations and rules. The requirement for competence and capacity of the Ombudsman has therefore increased enormously since its establishment over 56 years ago – competence to enter the wilderness of legislation, the capacity to actually take the individual seriously, and not least to conduct outreach activities and take own initiative. It's in such a perspective that we read the annual report from the Civil Ombudsman last year. The number of complaints to the Ombudsman increased by 16 pst. from 2016 to 2017 – from approx. Three thousand to three hundred complaints. In addition, we look at several areas, but especially in the fields of mental health protection, foreign affairs, social security and transparency. Of all the complaints, more than half were rejected. Half of all the rejections were due to the fact that the cases were still pending in the administration. Common grounds for rejection were that the case was inappropriate or did not have sufficient grounds for complaint, or that the case was outdated or sent as an orientation. Of the facts, 136 cases were closed with criticism or with a call to the administration to review the case. That's 9 pst. by the parties to the proceedings. For many of the cases, however, the outcome is often positive for the complainant, by resolving the case through, for example. a telephone call or a letter to the relevant management body. This was the case in almost 390 cases, or about 26 pst. The impression is that the administration treats the questions from the Ombudsman properly and provides information when asked by the Ombudsman. It's fundamental to the Storing. If the Civil Ombudsman is not received properly, that means that the Storting is not received properly. It's important to us on the Storting, and we're pleased with that. At the same time, I would like to point out that one in some areas has some repeaters who are having trouble following the recommendations or calls from the Civil Ombudsman. A hallmark of several of the Ombodsman’s issues in the Annual Report is that they often deal with the government’s beliefs, we might say – to be a little unpresistantly precise. The ongoing disunity from 2007, e.g., between the Civilombodsmann and the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice on Administrative Law § 36, is an example of this. This has led some parts of the administration to follow the ombudsman's questions, while others to follow the law department's views. It leads to different courts for people, depending on the subject matter of the case, or the body dealing with the cases. In addition, the interpretation of the law department opens up to more difficult conditions for people's legitimate demands to be covered by complaints, such as: when the administration changes certain statements after a complaint and sends the complainant back to start. The same is true in the annual report, of housing registration, where, after a break in life, parents had come up with a form of companionship that they thought was best for the child, but the tax office did not accept. The tax office indicated that the association with the children was not ‘sporadish’ enough for it to fall under the regulation of 9 November 2007 No. 1268 on population registration. I think it is very important that the civilombudsman takes care of this kind of penitence. In the large amount of regulations and rules that exist out there, it is important that you have someone to whom people can complain, who can come in with a grown-up look. On a general basis, I would like to stress that the questions raised by the Civil Ombudsman are to be taken into account in the administration. The law department or other parts of the administration may differ, but until the seventh and last, the questions from the Civilombodsmann, the Trust Person of the Stortinge, are to be followed. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the comments from the committee and move my attention over to a particular matter from the Civilo Ombudsman that we are dealing with today, as part of this discussion. The United Nations Convention on Torture states that torture and inhuman treatment are absolutely outlawed, and that this prohibition can never be waived. Norway has acceded to the Convention and is obliged to prohibit, prevent and punish any use of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Countries which are annexed to the Additional Protocol are required to establish national prevention bodies which make recommendations in order to prevent torture and inhumane treatment. The Committee believes it is very positive that it is precisely the Civilo Ombudsman who has been given this role in Norway, and that it is very important that the prevention work takes place in a body independent of the administration, which has not least sufficient resources and competence to do the job. In 2017, the Civilombudsman’s prevention unit has focused in particular on the deployment of mental disorders that persist in isolation in restrictive prison departments. This is a group that is often sent back and forth between prison and the specialist services, and is often in prolonged isolation when in prison. The Committee agrees that the follow-up to this group must be strengthened, especially when prisons themselves refer to the conditions under which they live, as inhumane, which is a very high cost from prison itself. We are quite a few with the assessment of the Scivilombodsman, that they must be given a treatment offer and that isolation must be interrupted. It is particularly alarming that the prevention unit has identified a practice in which isolation is often used in cases where there is a risk of suicide for the intervention. The reason for this is often inadequate staffing and too low a level of health in prison. These findings demonstrate a need for increased staffing in prison and better access to health care for those entering prison. Another theme is the relationship around ECT, electroshock. It is especially that the Civilombodsman has dedicated the use of electroshock without the consent of the patient in 2017, and often without finding any form of law shelter. It's serious. Findings shows a practice in which patients are exposed to a high risk of inhuman and degrading treatment. The extent of the use of electroshock is large – much larger than in any case I was aware of. In several of the cases examined by the prevention unit, it was not clear whether the strict conditions for the use of emergency law were met. The Committee would therefore like to stress, as the Civilombudsman, that emergency law is never an adequate legal basis for establishing a treatment scheme extending beyond what is necessary to avert an acute hazard to the patient. We therefore believe that the findings provide a basis for a survey of the use of ECT in emergency care in hospitals and a new review of the law in order to put an end to a situation where practice does not seem to be in line with the instructions that the law provides. The civilombudsman has also found that several hospitals before mental health protection had extensive use of the protection of their patients. These were screening measures that are implemented with so limited human contact that it actually constitutes isolation, and it poses a high risk of inhuman and degrading treatment. This is very alarming, and it'll be further alarming when the Civil Ombudsman found the basis for screening that is consistently flawed in very many cases. Therefore, the Committee is aware that measures are needed to ensure that practices are implemented which, as far as possible, prevent the risk of inhuman and degrading treatment. I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation, and I would like to point out that the comments on this matter are unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2268	Thanks to the rapporteur for a good presentation and a thorough review of a unanimous vote. I would like to stress what the rapporteur said about the important role of the Civil Ombudsman in Norwegian democracy. Norwegian citizens should have the opportunity, if they encounter unfair or incorrect proceedings, to complain and get their case properly resolved. It is important whether it is a matter of covering party costs, tax issues, as mentioned in the report, or construction matters — there should be proper treatment and equal treatment in the Norwegian community. I would like to add a few comments to the second part of the report and the responsibility to follow up our obligations in terms of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment of detention. The rapporteur was also concerned about this. I'll use two examples. One is a prisoner with mental illness and the serious – I think – the finding of the Civil Ombudsman has pointed out and that the case-rapporteur has already been involved. The purpose of our receiving this report and dealing with this matter is, of course, that it must make a difference. In that case, we have made it clear that, as far as prison services are concerned, we need to have more staff and more resources if we are not to end up in a situation where it is right to point out that we have critical relationships in the treatment of people in Norwegian prisons. This applies to both employees and health care. It is important that the technical committees also follow up when we have the annual budgetary procedure. For a number of years, we have been discussing the efficiency requirements imposed on criminal services — and in other areas of society as well — and pointing out that in everyday life, the quality of the rehabilitation of prisoners is actually being cut. So here we are expecting a change based on what is said, both from the Civil Ombudsman and in the setting. Another thing I think is frightening and serious, is the use of ECT, i.e. electroshock treatment – which the case-rapporteur also mentioned. The size has had a clear intention with the legislation, namely that this type of treatment should only be carried out with consent, but it may seem that someone has found a detour by calling it “right of emergency” and then nevertheless carried out that type of treatment. The first and most important thing to discuss is probably not whether the law is good enough. No, this is about the fact that the Minister of Health, vis-à-vis the various underlying hospitals and health institutions, is making sure that today's law is followed. Then, if necessary, discuss whether there is any reason to discuss the law on a different basis. But initially, the law adopted is to be followed. Clearly, such dramatic treatment as this involves cannot be the subject of individual and local adaptation of the intention of the Stortinget established by law. There is reason to thank the Civil Ombudsman for a thorough work. We appreciate the contribution it makes in order to maintain one of our great traditions, namely that neither the state nor the inhabitants of Norway are going to suffer from congestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2281	I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for his thorough work on this matter. It is a unanimous committee that has delivered its opinion. But I also want to make some comments. The Ombudsman has an important role in our society, both for individual citizens and for society as a whole. Through the Civil Ombudsman, the individual is given the opportunity to have the validity and legality of an administrative decision by a neutral and independent body verified. The Civil Ombudsman makes an important effort to monitor and control the respect and security of human rights in the administration. In this respect, I would like to stress the value of transparency in administration and the correct administration of the Public Health Act. The Ombudsman has an important role to play in this regard. In 2014, the Civil Ombudsman established a prevention unit against torture and inhumane treatment in the event of detention. This came as a result of Norway’s decision to accede to the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on Torture in May 2013. Norway has undertaken to prohibit, prevent and punish any use of torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment. The Civil Ombudsman with his independent role is an appropriate body to ensure that Norway follows up what we have committed ourselves to in terms of human rights and detention. The preventive function of the Civil Ombudsman is very important. Through the treatment of individual cases, the Civil Ombudsman contributes to changes in attitudes and new practices in very many societal areas. I would like to mention a few examples of psychiatry mentioned in the report. It's mentioned by several people here. Since 2017, the Civil Ombudsman’s prevention unit has focused in particular on prisoners with mental disorders who are in isolation from restrictive prison departments. These are people who often become throwballs between prison and specialist health services and who are often in prolonged isolation in prison. The Ombudsman’s assessment is that sick prisoners need to receive better treatment and that unnecessary isolation needs to be interrupted. The conditions under which these people live are often inhuman and violate conventions to which we have committed ourselves. The Committee therefore considers it important to strengthen the follow-up of mentally ill prisoners with competent health professionals. The report refers to the use of electroshock therapy, or ECT, without the patient’s consent — a form of treatment in which patients are exposed to a high risk of inhuman or degrading treatment. There is a large extent of the use of ECT on grounds of emergency law, and the prevention unit revealed several cases where it was unclear whether the strict criteria for the use of emergency law were met. Therefore, the Committee considers that these findings should provide a basis for monitoring the use of ECT treatment by hospitals in emergency situations and that the law needs to be reviewed in order to put an end to a situation where the practice does not appear to be in line with the law. Extensive use of shielding or isolation, which is often shielding, and the use of coercion in several hospitals, are also mentioned in the report. Screening actions carried out with limited human contact may be experienced as a detention and pose a high risk of inhuman and degrading treatment. It is worrying that throughout many findings regarding screening decisions were insufficiently justified and that staff were in varying degrees with patients in such situations. In the Committee's comments, we are concerned that protection decisions must be implemented in line with the legislation and that a practice must be provided to prevent as far as possible the risk of inhuman and degrading treatment. It is great that the prevention unit has carried out so many thorough visits around the country. These visits contribute to important preventive work on the enforcement of human rights in relation to the commitments made by Norway. It's very good to hear that the recommendations are generally followed up in a thorough and good way. In the end, I would like to say that I think it is very good that we have a health minister who has so clearly and so many times been in charge of reducing forced use and protecting health services. The screening and use of coercion is a form of detention that can be perceived as very degrading. Sometimes it is necessary for the safety of the individual or for the safety of others. But it can only be used when there is no other option. In this respect, I would like to point out that the government has appointed a selection under the leadership of Jusprofessor Bjørn Henning Østenstad to propose the modernisation of the enforcement legislation. The committee shall submit its proposal during this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2304	I want to start by thanking the case manager. I totally agree with his presentation of the report, I just want to add some points myself. The bureaucracy grows with this government. Despite the fact that the government has introduced a so-called red tape and efficiencies reform, tell us that the opposite is happening. In the state sector, 10,000 more have been added during the last four years of this government. With increasing bureaucracy and more challenging regulatory design, it is a challenge for citizens to stick with. This is why Stortinget's ombudsman for the administration is important as an institution here in the country. But yet it's not that the Civilombodsman is far ahead in the minds of people who want to express dissatisfaction with the administration. So I'm a little bit unsure whether to take it as a positive or a negative sign that the number of complaints is increasing. One could hope that there wasn't a grob for complaints in our administration, but it's obvious. The Civil Ombudsman is showing a lot of respect in the administration – and that is the way it should be. Over the last year of work, the Civilombodsman has provided clear examples of government guidelines that have to be addressed in different cases. We need an institution that can enter into cases freely and illegally to see if its inhabitants have received what they are entitled to. I would particularly like to point out in the Annual Report the work the Civilombodsmann has done when it comes to decisions without the name of the case manager. It is important to point out, and I think it is important in the name of legal security that the administration has essentially the name of the case manager of decisions taken in the administration. We look forward to the work that the Ministry of Justice is now doing in this area under administrative law. Money is a concern for poor and for rich, song Vidar Sandbeck in Pengegalloppen. The Civil Ombudsman has had a job associated with tax matters. I am pleased that the civil ombudsman says so clearly in the annual report that he is particularly careful about the injustice that affects the man in the street in relation to the tax haven and the experts of theirs. Tax questions are a requirement for individuals who are not able to settle themselves with lawyers who require high fees. The Civilombodsman has an important role to play here. The Civil Ombudsman has the right of initiative to dive into issues that they will look at more closely when it's important. Through the complaints they get on their table, they can form the impression of what kind of things our citizens are not happy with. Driving licences and the right to have or not to have a driving licence are one of the things that big business representatives are constantly meeting when we meet people. The uroa Civilombodsman says, is something in Stortinget that we have to take with us in the further work to ensure the safe management of these matters. So a few words about psychiatry and the use of acidic coercion, not least in the prison system. One might ask the question of increasing the focus on larger prisons, where it becomes cheaper for each single place, instead of the small, specially adapted housing conditions, on which Ulvsnessey may be a sample, to force a user. There will be more use of coercion that might not have been turbulent if one had more custom atoning conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2323	The task of the Ombudsman is to contribute to ensuring that there is no injustice by the public administration against the individual citizen. The Ombudsman also has an important role to play in the form of a prevention function, because the Ombudsman’s role in dealing with individual cases is also of an awareness-raising and practical nature. The rapporteur has well explained the Committee's position, so I shall not go into the details. I just want to highlight a few relationships. I find that the number of cases in recent years has been somewhat stable. There was a slight increase in the trend, from 2,987 in 2013 to 3,128 in 2016. For 2017, there has actually been an increase of 16 pst. The increase has mainly been on issues within the core areas of the Ombudsman. It is gratifying that this year too has been a decline in the Ombudsman's time of proceedings. There's a reason to notice, with a clearly positive sign. The civil ombudsman as an institution is also actively working to become better acquainted with the population. We think that's good, and the work also seems to bear fruit. At the same time, I want to boast that the annual report itself is a good educational piece of work that shows the company's work in a good and clarifying way. Already in the opening presentation, we see with all clarity the importance and relevance of the Civil Ombudsman. The annual report shows that the Civil Ombudsman is respected, including by the administration. That's good. In general, the Ombudsman’s decision is loyally followed up by the administrative bodies. It is important and of great value to those who are directly involved, but – I will add – also to society as a whole. Torture and inhumane treatment do not belong in a civilised society. The Ombudsman has an important role to play here. Through, inter alia: We are obliged to prohibit, prevent and punish any use of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. We are obliged to establish a national prevention body that makes recommendations in order to prevent torture and inhumane treatment. The fact that the Ombudsman has this role in Norway is perceived as important and positive. It is good that prevention is carried out in an independent body represented by the Civil Ombudsman. In the report, we see that several important issues have been addressed in key issues, such as the isolation of prisoners with mental disorders in Norwegian prisons, who have been involved in several of them, the use of ECT, or electroshock on the public mouth, and the use of protection for patients in mental health protection. These are often very complex issues that require a high level of competence and where demanding assessments have to be made. Not least in the case of the Civil Ombudsman relating to isolation protection in the field of mental health protection, we encounter some issues that require insight and understanding of the dilemmas faced by the staff. It is my impression when I read Document 4:1 that the Civil Ombudsman has made wise and important assessments in this matter. In the Civil Ombudsman, we have an independent and competent actor who ensures that the individual citizen is not mistreated by the administration. It is an important function to perform in a democracy, and both reports now presented to the Storting show that the function is well managed and maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2346	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2362	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2378	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of lines with up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2391	First of all, I would like to thank the members of the government who have told us about Norway's participation in the fight against ISIL. Let there be no doubt that the ISIL terrorist organisation has committed atrocious acts against the civilian population, primarily in Iraq and Syria. In ISIL's brutal warfare, innocent people have been used both as targets and as means. ISIL has spread terror, fear, intolerance and hatred. That is why it has been right and necessary to combat ISIL with a wide range of instruments, including military ones. On behalf of the entire committee, I would also like to thank and acknowledge the efforts of Norwegian soldiers in international operations. We are constantly receiving feedback on the quality of the Norwegian soldiers and recognition of the efforts being made, often under very demanding conditions. The majority of the Committee, members of the four opposition parties, have been engaged in raising the public awareness of Norway’s participation in international operations. The minority of the Committee, the representatives of the government parties, has been concerned that, in our state-style, foreign policy is the responsibility of the government, within general guidelines, principles and laws adopted on the Storting. It is difficult to disagree with that – I also agree with that. Foreign policy is the king's prerogative. But then the Storting must also be able to debate precisely the general guidelines and principles of foreign policy, not least on Norway's participation in international military operations. The enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is a body for consultation between government and magnification. It's basically a good order. However, among other things: the evaluation of Norwegian efforts in Afghanistan has clearly highlighted the need for more transparency and discussion on Norway’s foreign military missions. Therefore, from the Labour Party, we took the initiative to hold these two presentations for Stortinget and to be debated in plenary, as was also done through the Prime Minister's presentation in November 2016 on Norway's contribution to the fight against ISIL. There is no contradiction between discussing dilemmas and challenges in international operations and supporting our Norwegian soldiers out there. New operations in the future are likely to be similar to what we now have in Iraq. It is about training and strengthening the country's own security forces, and not necessarily participating in the active repression of terrorist groups. Norway did not take part in the Iraq War in 2003, and former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik writes in his memoirs on how he, as Prime Minister, was prepared to ask cabinet questions internally in his own government, with both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence from the Right, in order to prevent the government from being in favour of Norwegian participation in the Iraq war. The working party was on Bondevik's side. Much of the conflict picture in today’s Iraq is due to the difficult post-Invasion situation in 2003. At the same time, it is also possible to argue that when US forces were withdrawn from Iraq under President Obama, there was too rapid a safety vacuum that indirectly created room for ISIL's emergence. A rapid extraction constitutes a potential pitfall for military foreign operations. On the other hand, there is also a serious pitfall that such operations lack a concrete and real exit strategy, so that so-called mission operations take place, and that the operation ends up being carried on much longer than is necessary. Initially, Norway’s contribution to the international coalition against ISIL had a clear exit strategy. The goal was territorial control of ISIL. As of today, much has been achieved. However, when we in the Labour Party believe that it is right to continue a Norwegian military contribution in Iraq, it is because there are still fragile security situations in this country that suggest that there is a need to strengthen and support Iraqi security forces in further efforts to stabilise the country. But I also want to take the opportunity to encourage the government to define a clearer, concrete exit strategy for the Norwegian contribution. The mission we have carried out so far has not been unproblematic, among other things. because, in recent years, the Iraqi Government forces have partially had objectives other than to combat ISIL alone. It also applies to the other groups we've trained in this region. On the part of the Labour Party, we assume that the training of Norwegian forces has been carried out has been in line with the mandate of the government of the bodies of Stortinge. In this new mission, the danger is present that there may be military confrontations between those we train and local sunni groups. In addition, we know that the dividing lines between Iraqi government forces and Shia militias can be unclear. There is also a risk that the conflicts between Iran and Saudi Arabia will be pampered inside Iraqi territory. Norway has any interest in alleviating such conflicts on the Iraqi territory. It is also an important question to whom we choose to cooperate, which individual countries, alliances and organisations we are most closely associated with. Our cooperation with the Americans is good, but there are also arguments that we should strengthen cooperation with other countries. In my opinion, we should now increase our participation in relevant UN operations in order to strengthen multilateral efforts for peace and security. On the part of the Labour Party, we support this new mission in Iraq, but we will encourage the government to define a clear exit strategy and, more importantly, to contribute to more transparency and public discussion about Norway's participation in international operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2419	Let me first of all thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good account of the developments in the war against ISIL, and not least Norway's contribution. Before discussing strategy on how to win a war, it is essential to be aware of what and who you want to fight. War against terror is a noble goal, but it is as unclear as it is of course, and it is as small measurable as it is imperative. The main challenge, however, is not mobilization and the will to win, but knowing who, or what, you're fighting. The war against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, or ISIL, is not a war in a classical sense. The coalition's forces are to prevent ISIL from restoring its caliphate and is therefore a territorial war, but it is even more a war with arms against religious fanaticism. Democratic regimes have fought totalitarian regimes in the past, but this war is different and more complex. This is because a military victory over ISIL will be difficult to define. We don't want to experience a capitulation. The war is a struggle against bestial religious extremism, an extremism that exists in different denominations throughout the region. Any military victory over ISIL will not be replaced by a democratic, secular state based on values of freedom. Representatives of such forces are marginal in these areas. The suppression of a military ISIL will be replaced by a somewhat less obvious and obviously repressive regime. The countries and ethnic groups in the region also end up in different degrees on conservative Islam. And despite the fact that all warring parties throughout the region claim that the fight against ISIL is their prime task, we see tendencies that the struggle to maintain – or expand – our own territory can well be so central. There is little doubt that ISIL contributes to sectarian fragmentation, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to. It is therefore important to have a clear understanding of what this term implies. ISIL naturally has a negative view of those who have not joined ISIL, as «sectric» is defined, but ISIL is not a special sect or confession, as the definition of «sectical» also refers to. ISIL wants to restore a caliphate that is aligned and based on the letter-tro read of the Koran. In other words, ISIL retrieves his conviction and inspiration after the command of Allah and Allah's messengers. The struggle against what we today define as radicalization is therefore a struggle against the letter-tro read of the Qur'an, and the hadiths, or the ‘roots of the law’, as it is also defined – in other words, a struggle against the expansion of a fanatical, oppressive religion. ISIL does not conceal this. The organisation has an expressed ambition to integrate increasingly large areas into its caliphate. Our goal is to avoid Muslims in the neighbourhoods – and in the West – being inspired by ISIL’s propaganda and the organisation’s guarantees that martyrdom in an armed struggle against the disbelief will bring eternal salvation. It is also a struggle to distance young Muslims from legislation and punishment based on Sharia and rather embrace the secular legal rules of democracy. Then it is important that Muslims in the West take root in our democratic culture and at the same time the ability to adopt our values of freedom. As the Council of State pointed out, the war against ISIL is based on a decision of the UN Security Council and that it was this decision that led Norway to join the coalition to combat ISIL. The war on ISIL has now been going on for almost four years, and it is clear that war violence is about to break down. The nation's acceptance of losing soldiers in a war where sayings are difficult to define, and which will not create stability, is becoming ever smaller. The U.S. signal that they can pull their forces out of Syria and end the fight against ISIL, may be a signal that the dynamics of war are changing. US President Donald Trump stated: ‘We’re knocking the hell out of ISIS. We'll be coming out of Syria very soon. Let the other people take care of it now.» And on: «We’re going to get back to our country, where we belong, where we want to be.» Trump’s logic may seem simple, but it obviously appeals in its own people. The question many are asking is therefore why to sacrifice American life in a war no one sees any end at all, and where no one really knows who the enemy is – or who the enemy of the future is. The fundamental question is whether it is at all the task of Europe and the United States to remove dictators and support one or the other group in these areas. Of course, this can be seen in the light of the after-clock. If the United States is serious about pulling its forces out of Iraq, this will create a whole new dynamic in the war against ISIL. The other coalition will then have to reconsider both strategy and further participation. It's often said that it's important to fight them where they are, so they don't come to us. That may be correct, but it is also a concession that extreme and fundamentalist Islam threatens the security and security of the West. It's very dramatic. The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to a number of good and sensible actions undertaken by Norway in our contribution to the fight against ISIL, all well founded on the mission and mandate of the international coalition. Norway is also a highly valued partner. Norway also has soldiers with good fighting ability and high integrity. There is something Norway should be proud of and highly esteemed. Our serving soldiers deserve our respect out there and our gratitude and support when they come home.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2444	First, thank you to the government for good and very useful information on a difficult matter. We should also be very grateful for those who are leaving. Although the Central Party has disagreed that we should be quiet with soldiers in this operation, we are, of course, indebted to the shoulders of those who have travelled, who do such a good job as is permitted. It is important to have a public debate on the overarching principles of foreign policy. It is also important to have a public debate on the extent to which Norway will participate in operations in different parts of the world outside the area of NATO, and where we are an allied and natural player. The outreach from the state councils of open cities helps us to have a more open debate and also to get more information to most people – which is the basis for a public debate on this issue. The Central Party believes that if the government wants to send Norwegian forces in armed conflict outside the borders of NATO, it must be anchored in the Stortinget. Today's system of consultation under the extended Foreign and Defence Committee, in the opinion of the Centre Party, does not ensure a good enough change of words to take such decisions, nor does it ensure sufficient democratic anchoring. The centre party has asked several times if the government has control of who Norwegian soldiers are training, whether these groups can turn against us and our allies at later times, and what is the timeline and exit strategy. It has been very difficult to get clear answers to this. We also have another side to our foreign assignment. It goes on the defense chief's warning against Norway taking part in a lot of foreign missions at once. He cautions that there may be a loss of available resources for the Defense of Norway. I would point out that the main task for the Defense is to defend Norwegian territory. Norway must always give priority to the national defence forces and not give up military forces to international operations outside NATO without the anchoring of the UN Charter and a clear UN mandate and without a anchoring in the Stortinget. The Central Party is in favour of Norway having a significant role in providing humanitarian aid in Syria, although the needs are still enormous. Norway is not a great military power, but we might call it a humanitarian power. We have made a significant contribution to the humanitarian work, and on the part of the Central Party we will ask for it to be the line that we should also go forward. Diplomacy, the fact that we have a free voice in the international conversation, can contribute to solutions and positive processes. Being with and securing means of humanitarian work should be the role of Norway much more than being with soldiers and military material in situations where we simply do not see the end of the war or actually are able to be quite sure whether they are training, are those who will also be burdened and broken with our allies and ourselves in time to come. Operation Inherent Resolution is a difficult operation. One has in part been closed down by returning ISIL, but unfortunately there are still major conflicts and an inconceivable landscape in which one governs. We note that the majority want to send new quotas into this area and demand a clear strategy, both for whom we are training, and what those groups could mean for us and not least for different internal struggles in their countries ahead. Do I really know who trains me? And is that a clear exit strategy? It should be possible for Stortinget to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2461	There is a broad consensus in the Storting that the bloody terrorism and the brutal repression that the ISIL terrorist group stands for must be combated. We also agree, regardless of the position related to participation in this military operation, to recognise and thank the Norwegian soldiers who have been sent out. However, we are there that we need a thorough debate on the political decisions that have led Norway into the various wars in the Middle East, and finally through training missions in Syria and Iraq. The experience of Norwegian military participation in the Middle East is not good. The experience with US-led coalitions in the Middle East is not good. There is – it has been shown through this presentation and the debate after it – reason to put great questions about what Norway achieves and who Norway is allying with in these wars. Therefore, our conclusion is that in today's situation Norway should not play a military role in the Middle East. We therefore propose today to close immediately the Norwegian participation in Operation Inherent Resolution. One important thing to address today is the lack of control with whom Norway cooperates. In the past, we have been concerned about the degree of control we must be able to assume that the United States has been associated with the selection of partners, and Norway's limited influence. In the reply letter of 29 May to questions from the undersigned regarding whether the government is aware of human rights violations committed by Norwegian interest-rate forces, we were told that the government is aware of one serious episode. There is information shared with the Storting in forums to which the public does not have access. I would like to stress that it would have been very desirable to have a more open information about this. It is essential that the government extends as far as possible to share information with the public, because that is the only way we can get an informed debate on these incredibly important issues. The question of control with whom we train has been a key question in the debate about whether it was wise or not to go with the military in Operation Inherent Resolution. I believe that the matter mentioned here highlights the issue of a lack of control. Then, in addition, this week we got a new case in the class struggle newspaper, where there is a story about another episode that should have led to the death of two people. The Ministry of Defence has said that they have no knowledge of the episode. I hope the Minister for Defence has examined this for today's debate. We believe that participation in Operation Inherent Resolution should be evaluated, in line with what has now become a good practice related to both Afghanistan and Libya, and promote proposals to that effect. I believe it was wrong for the Minister of Defence to omit information about this serious incident in his statement on 2 May. I believe that it is – also at the very limited level to which the government has chosen to share information for now – important information. We cannot get into a situation where only the positive things of government policy are shown, and not the negative ones. That's why the government has to go as far as it can, to get information that can be negative to the government. During the weeks of this debate, we have also discussed the question of whether the Norwegian interest-rate forces may have fought against others other than ISIL, which in that case would have been a clear breach of the mandate of government and enlargement. I sent a letter about this April 20th. It took a month and eight days for the Minister of Defense to answer, and when the answer came, it was not a clear answer. It's not until June 7th comes an answer that says: ‘The government has not received a report that Norwegian trained forces have fought against other than ISIL as claimed by the Class Battle.’ I believe that the sum of omissions of important information in the presentation and the inertia and ambiguity of the answers to questions from the Stortinget makes it appropriate to make a proposal on criticism by the Minister of Defence, and do so – in line with the vote. I would like to mention the three suggestions SV has made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2487	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2492	I would also like to start by thanking the Secretary of State and the Minister of Defence for their good offices. ISIL has come forward with a brutality and rawness that has shocked the world. The actions and arrests of terrorists have led millions of people to escape from their homes, many to be killed, and the civilian population to suffer unimaginable suffering. The reports tell us about torture, assault and people who have been led into slavery. World also witnessed a cruel genocide of Jesuits, Christians, and other religious and ethnic minorities in Iraq and Syria. In June 2014, ISIL declared a global caliphate – the so-called Islamic state – and during 2016 IS was active in 18 countries around the world, with new branches, among others. in Mali, Egypt, Somalia, Indonesia and the Philippines. IS has also taken on responsibility for terrorist attacks in a number of countries, including Turkey, Egypt, Belgium, Germany, France and the United States. The terrorist group subsequently controlled significant land areas in Syria and Iraq and received large revenues from oil sales from the areas they had taken control of. There were advance warriors from over 80 countries to join the newly established caliphate, and also several Northmen traveled to join ISIL. These forward warriors are not just a problem for the region, but are a security threat internationally. There is a danger that extremists who are recruited and trained by IS will be able to carry out terror when they return to their homelands. Here, it is important for Norway to take the necessary and preventive measures. Infringements against minorities such as Jesidians and the advance to new areas of the terrorist state contributed to the launch by the United States of America of air attacks against ISIL in August 2014. The United States also initiated a broad coalition against ISIL in Iraq and Syria. Norway decided in 2016 to send a Norwegian contribution to the coalition, with 120 officers to help with capacity building of local forces in Iraq. Later, we also sent 60 staff to train, advise and support local Syrian groups fighting against ISIL in Syria. The Christian People's Party supports the Norwegian military contributions. It was not an easy decision, but a decision we stand by, not because we believe that the fundamental challenge can be solved easily and easily by military means, but because of the belief that it was necessary to intervene to stop ISIL from expanding its terrorist regime, stop the terror against the civilian population and prevent the war from becoming even more extensive. Norway assumed a great responsibility by contributing, but the responsibility of saying no would be even greater. Iraq asked for assistance to defend itself against ISIL. This call for assistance for collective self-defence in accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter constituted the anchoring of the contribution of Norway by international law. The UN Security Council has also called on members to take the necessary steps to address the threat posed by ISIL and to eradicate their retreats in Syria and Iraq. Norway, through its contributions, has contributed to the fact that the IS has become victorious faster than they would otherwise have been. Today the IS has been driven back from 98 pst. of the areas they once controlled. But the security situation in Iraq is still fragile. There is therefore a need for Norwegian forces to continue to contribute to the strengthening of Iraqi security forces in order to stabilise the country. It is a long-term work that remains to create peace and stability in the region. The experience of Iraq and the bombing of Libya show that military victories do not guarantee a better future for the countries of that debt. Large areas, not least large cities like Mosul, need to be rebuilt from the ruins. Internal agents need security to move back and have the ability to rebuild their homes. The last pockets under IS control must also be overcome. Although driven back, ISIL still has the capacity and will to destabilise and carry out terrorist attacks in and outside the region. Finally, I would like to underline the point made by the representative of Navarsete, who drew attention to the humanitarian aid work. Millions depend on humanitarian aid, both in Iraq and in Syria. Here you can make a difference between Norway and Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2517	All parties wholeheartedly support the fight against IS. The disagreement is about something completely different. On 2 May, the Council of State gave an account of Norway's participation in Operation Inherent Resolution. There, state councils once again showed what has become the government's trademark in this matter: avoidance and lack of answers to fundamental questions about how the Norwegian people's tax money and Norway's limited defence means have been used in Syria. Today the status is as follows: The government's assurance that Norwegian forces have only trained groups that have fought exclusively against IS is unlikely to be correct. The government’s own assessment that the Norwegian mission was not contrary to international law is probably not correct either, and a lot now suggests that Norwegian interest-rate forces may have attacked and killed civilians and otherwise violated international law and human rights during the period of the Norwegian mission. That Erna Solberg will not even tell which rebel groups were supported and trained with Norwegian defenses, testifying to a government that realizes that the truth about this mission does not bear the light of day. I would like to remind you that it is neither the government's own money nor its own soldiers who have been sent to contribute to a dubious US-led intervention, it is the Norwegian people's tax money and the whole of Norway's limited defenses that the government has used. In a democracy, it is not up to the government itself to decide whether people should know how resources and military power are managed. That is why we are pleased that we were able to see through the proposal that the Syria statement should be taken further into the Storting, and not be put to death after the statement on 2 May, as originally foreseen. But we still have to ask for answers to important questions that have been submitted to the government many times, both in written form from me and from others on the Stortinget in the Question Time, during the presentation and from the media, but to which the government has so far chosen not to answer. Many suggest that one of the groups in Norway has trained is the one called the Revolutionary Command Army, MaT. Three Syrian sources, including MaT's commander-in-chief, said to the class struggle on April 17 that they have always been completely open to the fact that their goal is a change of regime. The U.D. has stated that the Norwegian mission was not contrary to international law as long as rebel groups were trained that did not fight for regime change. Then, on 29 May, the Minister of Defence agreed that Norwegian interest-rate forces were involved in a serious incident during the period of the Norwegian mission, but would not openly explain the incident. This week we read in the class struggle that soldiers from a Norwegian-run group, allegedly, must have killed a father and son in a refugee camp near the base where the Norwegian training mission must have taken place. That is why there are a number of questions that I hope we can get clear answers to today from the Councils. The first is an answer to which armed groups have been trained by Norwegian soldiers in the mission. The second is why the government has told Stortinget that the Norwegian forces should only train groups who fought against IS, when even the leader of an assumed Norwegian group says that they have always had a regime change as their stated goal, and whether it is still considered to train groups for regime change as being contrary to international law. I would also ask for an answer to what was said about the serious incident, and whether the government has intended to investigate the claim in the class struggle this week that the forces, trained by Norwegian forces, may have killed civilians in a refugee camp. Will the government investigate it and get to the bottom of what has happened in that case and inform about it in Stortinget, or will the government not do anything about it? With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2538	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2543	The previous article contains many invitations to derailment. I might be very careful to say that there is at least one concern that is the overall fight against IS, as far as the Red's contribution is concerned, and that is accusations and myth-making against the Norwegian foreign management and defence management. On the other hand, in the debate I have caught up with what one must allow to say is a broad commitment to the Norwegian commitment. There is a consensus that ISIL represents a warfare and cruel assault on the civilian population that lacks equality, at least after World War II. It brings us to a discussion of what Norway can contribute, precisely because it also sees that international terrorism has ramifications and threatens the civilian population in Western countries. It also has a security significance in our countries. That's why we're involved in an international coalition, which is absolutely not a tailhang to the United States, but consists of 75 sovereign states, democracies, acting on the basis of a secure mandate given by the United Nations Security Council. It does not mean, as a majority in the position states, that one should not also be open to any involvement with power in an area in another country – even if it is after an invitation, as in Iraq, and it is based on a mandate of international law – creating dilemmas that we must be open to. But that does not mean that we are going to conduct the debate in a way that puts our forces out in detail, or those in the coalition that might enter and take over positions after Norwegian forces, in real danger. I have to say that when we were working on the setting of the Stortinget, I was amazed that we had not been able to concentrate more on common comments. But I would like to say that the posts held by the representatives of Navarsete and Hareide today also reflect exactly what the government parties and our fractions in the committee think. I've been on the ground of international law, and it's not like the Norwegian power contributions are without national control. Strengthening contributions are governed by current decisions of the State Council. They are adjusted in relation to the changes on the ground and in accordance with the needs of the coalition and how the progress – for that is what you can tell back – is progressing. The exposure rules, which are the rules on when the Norwegian forces can use power, are followed. They are established nationally by the Minister of Defence and are in line with best international practice. Of course, there will always be problems in these areas. On some of the posts, it seems that you don't know what is the reality of the effort. Although the Norwegian strength contribution is concentrated geographically on bases, training and support contributions and, to a lesser extent, on sharp operations, if one is to be respected by one's coalition partners, one must, of course, be involved and, taking into account the minimised risk to Norwegian personnel, be part of the operational one when one is being attacked himself. This is also completely in international law. On this point, I would like to say very carefully that the statements we have received from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence, respectively, are in line with Storting's assumptions. If you read the setting, even though the parties have wanted to use their own words, the debate here today confirms that there is a broad commitment around the Norwegian contribution, alongside the humanitarian efforts, and that our forces out there have a large domestic anchor in this big deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2569	Let me first thank the Committee for a thorough attitude, and also for what I see as a broad support in the Storting to the overall effort in the fight against ISIL. The setting shows many of the key challenges and issues we face. I would also like to refer to the statement I made on 2 May, for some more comprehensive information on these issues. The coalition of which we are part, consisting of 75 states and organisations, has, in a relatively short time, made significant progress in the fight against ISIL. In June 2014, ISIL declared the so-called caliphate to be established, and left town after city under its regime of terror, committed atrocious assault on the civilian population and stood behind very many killings. Four years later, with solid local anchoring, the coalition is now close to defeating ISIL territorially. As the government has previously expressed, the aim is to deprive ISIL of territorial control and to prevent them from being re-attached. Our support for the anti-ISIL coalition has contributed to ISIL being significantly weakened today, and that people who have lived under cruel conditions are now slowly getting their daily lives back. I want to underline what I said in the statement. The fight against ISIL is not over. There is still a need for both civil and military international efforts in both Iraq and Syria. Iraq is currently in a security and political transition phase. Iraqi forces have made considerable efforts, but still need international assistance to combat ISIL. In the wake of the parliamentary elections held on 12 May, there are now government negotiations. There were signals this morning that there could be new coalitions, and there will be much to say for the will and ability to solve the underlying causes of ISIL’s emergence. The composition of the new government will affect how Iraq will stand to further Western military presence. For many years, even before sending a strong contribution to the anti-ISIL coalition, Norway has underlined to the parties that an inclusive political system is necessary to create stability and reconciliation both in Iraq and in Syria. We have organized and continue to facilitate as far as we can, in order to contribute to political contact and reconciliation. While the needs for immediate stabilisation aid are precarious, the UN lacks more than 500 million. USD for immediate stabilisation measures in Iraq in 2018. If we now fail in our civil efforts, we are also at risk of ISIL re-attachment, and the 2.2 million internally displaced Iraqis are unable to return home. We can't let that happen. The government has therefore increased assistance for stabilising and reducing vulnerability in Iraq by 20 p.p. this year to about 20 p.p. 350 million. kr, including the 2017 new aging period. We also encourage other allies to contribute more to civil work. In Syria, our considerable humanitarian commitment continues throughout the country, and we are strengthening our stabilisation efforts in the areas liberated from ISIL, where possible. In northeastern Syria, Norway provides support to refugees and civilians in distress through the UN humanitarian organisations, Norwegian organisations and their partners. We also contribute funds to mine clearance in and around Raqqa city, the former main seat of ISIL. This effort is now planning to escalate because ISIL has left a huge number of advanced mines and explosives, and it obviously makes it difficult to carry out humanitarian stabilising work in this area. I would like to remind you that by the end of 2018 Norway will have given a total of at least 7.5 billion. kr since 2016 in support of the Syrian crisis, and to neighbouring countries that have taken a large part of the refugee flow. We're going to fulfill the 10 billion promise. kr, as planned, by 2019. The fight against ISIL continues, even here at home. We must be prepared for demanding consular matters, linked to the possible return of Norwegian foreign fighters, ISIL sympathizers and their children born abroad. This is also pointed out in parts of the Committee's configuration. Norwegian citizens entering a country contrary to the U.D. Travel Council assume a great personal responsibility and cannot expect assistance from Norwegian authorities as long as they are in those countries. It is therefore completely independent of the reason for entering these areas – it is the U.D. The fight against ISIL and violent extremism is a long-term investment in our common security. As the Prime Minister in the past has stressed: this is not a fight we choose, it is a fight we have to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2593	There have been many discussions about international military operations, and one of the experiences from Afghanistan is that there is no clear definition of what is the exit strategy. In my view, this is not an argument for withdrawing from Afghanistan today. There are many arguments that we should still be there, but there has been a lot in the public discussion that there will be a kind of ‘mission operation’, that there is no clear definition of what the goal is, and what is the exit strategy. What does the Foreign Minister think is the exit strategy for the mission we are in today, the fight against ISIL?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2600	I fully agree with Huitfeldt's representative that it is important to have thoughts about what is the exit strategy. It's never possible to be completely specific in advance, but you have to set some goals. What is very clear in the fight now being waged against ISIL is both about the territory – we are, together with good local partners, as said close by defeating ISIL territorially, but there are still pockets that ISIL controls, and there is also a significant risk of ISIL spreading to other countries in the region – and it is about helping to stabilise the areas that are being liberated from ISIL, so that you do not get a situation where they come back quickly. These include: to be able to provide some basic services, which means that ISIL does not become an alternative to providing that particular type of service. In this area, among others: Iraq's government is central, which is also responsible for 80 p.m. of the humanitarian aid provided by the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2605	Norway has made a relatively large contribution to remedy the humanitarian situation created by the war in Syria. On 31 May of this year, the NRK announced that only 20 pst have been received by the United Nations. of the money of the international community has promised to the 5.5 million internally displaced persons in Syria. The United Nations warns against the possibility of whole relief operations being in danger of collapsing. Then the question becomes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Will she take international initiatives to help the relief work continue and that other nations will also fulfill their promises? And what has Norway done so far in relation to the contributions of other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2610	This is a problem that is relatively often on the agenda, and unfortunately it must be said that the crisis in Syria is not the only humanitarian crisis the world is experiencing now. The attention of the international community to contribute better to resource mobilisation in several crises is high on the agenda. We attended a conference held a month ago from Norway, where our point was to contribute to further resource mobilisation for Syria, and not least for neighbouring countries. There is considerable pressure on neighbouring countries both economically and in other ways, which makes them also in a difficult situation. That's why our big Syrian promise is going to be 10 billion. DKr in four years that we pay, including for neighbouring countries. That's important, because many countries only focus on Syria. There's limited access from time to time. We have a very clear view that our humanitarian contribution applies to the whole of Syria – regardless of who controls the areas. But we also need to focus on neighbouring countries, which are taking a large share of the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2617	I thank you for your answer. My question was also what Norway is doing in relation to other countries. Do we use our diplomacy too? Although I see the Foreign Minister's point that there are many crises, unfortunately, this crisis is high on the agenda. We know what we can both read and see in the media, that there is great human nudity. My question is: What does Norway do to help them meet their obligations, as Norway does in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2622	As I was a little bit into it, we also use the channels we have to encourage others to contribute more. It's really about two things. One is that the countries that have said they should contribute fulfil their obligations. The second is that we need to find new donors that can also contribute, because it's not enough just to lean on those donors that already give a lot. They are often in border countries for what more they can give, also because they give money to other humanitarian crises. Then we have to expand the basis for multiple donors. Norway has taken a leading role in getting international attention around these crises, and we have a very clear responsibility that we communicate, but we also communicate the responsibility of other countries to contribute. It is very quickly done in crises that last as long as this crisis has – and many of them, unfortunately – that there is a kind of giving fatigue over time, how many countries are moving to new and other crises. In many ways you can understand the difficulty many donors face in having limited resources, and you want to help. So it's important to keep an eye on this crisis, where 5 million of the 13 million who need emergency aid in Syria are children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2629	I expect concrete questions about specific incidents concerning the Norwegian interest rate forces to be addressed to the Minister of Defence, but one thing that is more relevant to the Minister of Foreign Affairs is questions of international law. Given the perception that the government itself has, that the Norwegian training missions have been within international law as long as the forces being trained do not fight against regime change, is my question: is it similar that if it were to be found that these forces have also fought against the regime, does it mean that the training mission would not have been in line with international law?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2636	I don't want to stand here wondering, given that we no longer have a presence in Syria. I have, as the representative is well acquainted with, thoroughly explained to the bodies of the Storting for the episode that became known to me, and I did so immediately after the episode became known. I believe it is important to stress that we, on the Norwegian side – probably for the first time, as far as we have been able to see – made public the basis of international law on which we participated, both in Iraq and in Syria. We believe it was important for the public debate and have been important in the communication we have had all the way to the partner force that has been trained, namely that our mandate is about one thing: combating ISIL, and nothing other than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2642	It's important to keep things apart here now. The serious episode is one thing, the ground of international law another. But let me go on with what's related to control over who we're training. For one of the things that was controversial at the outset, the training missions in Iraq, which were initially directed both against the government forces and against Kurdish peshmerga, occurred at a time when it was obvious that there could at some point be conflicts between the Kurdish areas of northern Iraq and the central government in Baghdad. It's been since that, and I wonder what Norway is doing now to dampen the confrontation between two of the parties that have been allies in the fight against ISIL, but that now seems to be facing each other; the government of Baghdad and the Kurdish self-governments now in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2647	Norway has been active for a long time, even before ISIL became a problem issue, to contribute to reconciliation between the central government in Baghdad and the Kurds. It's been important, also because we've always pointed out that we're going to get a peaceful development and avoid that terrorist groups that in many ways feed on marginalised people get footholds and blooms up, and you actually have to have political inclusive processes, you have to have reconciliation processes. There's been some progress, it's positive. There is still a long way to go, and that's exactly why I now mentioned in my introduction that what we're very concerned about when new Iraqi government is to be formed is that it becomes politically inclusive, and that we make sure that we don't continue the same marginalization of the Sun population, which has been a big problem, and not to have the same lines of conflict against the Kurds, which have also been a very big problem. We have discussed this with both Iraqi authorities, and we have had dialogue with Kurdish self-government authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2652	On May 23, 2017, the following statement from Eriksen Soreide was received from the government: ‘In addition, it must be emphasised that the basis is clearly limited to operations targeting ISIL. The Government therefore considers that the Norwegian military contribution to Operation Inherent Resolution is firmly anchored in international law.» Unfortunately, we have received most of the information about what has happened through the media. But now the leader of one of the militias that we're going to have trained is clearly saying that they've been open that regime change is a goal for them all the way. Does the Council of State, if we have trained militias who have fought for a regime change, mean that there is a breach of the international legal basis for the operation, when there is thus that kind of information in the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2662	As I said in my previous reply, I have explained to the bodies of Storting for the episode that became known in my time as Minister of Defence, when I was responsible for this. Besides that, I don't want to wonder what's in the media. I have no reason to confirm that information, and that question may then be asked to the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2667	These are claims from three independent sources in this so-called revolutionary command army that Norway is supposed to have trained in Syria, where the leader of this militia clearly states that this has been a goal all along. He also mentions concrete blows in which they have fought against regime forces. Since it is so crystal clear that the basis of international law for the Norwegian contribution is based on the fact that the forces are exclusively fighting against ISIL, it is relevant if the government goes into that kind of claim, investigates the truth of it and comes to Stortinget with a message of what they have found out. So I wonder if the Council of State will go into those claims and investigate whether there is hold on to them or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2672	I can't do anything but repeat my answer. I do not have – and I do not think the representative of Moxnes does – confirmed information in one direction or another, and further questions about how the training of partner forces has taken place must be addressed to the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2677	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2682	Like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough position and for the opportunity to explain to the UK about Norway's contribution to the fight against ISIL. Together with the Prime Minister's statement on 15 November 2016, the Foreign Minister's statement and my statement on 2 May 2018, as well as the ongoing information that my predecessors and I have provided to the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence since Norway became part of the campaign in 2014, I would argue that the Stortinget has been continuously and well informed. That's also how it should be. Sending Norwegian soldiers in conflict is among the most serious tasks a government can undertake. Close contact with the Storting is essential for the government to know that you are acting in harmony with the will of the elected representatives. This is not least important when sending soldiers in international action, especially in areas where the risk of personnel is high. The involvement of defence in the international coalition against ISIL in Iraq and Syria is a clear example of this. Together with international and local partners, land areas controlled by the terrorist organisation in Iraq have been reclaimed. The coalition has greatly weakened the position of ISIL in Syria. Greater emphasis is now placed on long-term capacity building and less emphasis on supporting offensive operations. The Norwegian special strength contribution will therefore end at the end of 2018, while the army contribution will continue in 2019. We know that the basic conditions that led to ISIL's emergence still exist. The organisation will continue to try to terrorise the population of the region and destabilise Iraq. Moreover, the situation in the area is changeable and unpredictable, with many actors, changing alliances and a lack of respect for human rights and the international law of war. All these conditions mean that international military efforts will continue to be necessary, both to deal with the residual threat from ISIL and to prevent the organisation from growing strongly again. We also need to build up Iraq's security forces so that they can secure the country and the population against ISIL in the long term. Since the debate on 2 May, I have received many enquiries from the representatives of bigots who want to make sure that Norwegian forces are acting in line with the government's mandate. I welcome this vigilance. There are two main concerns: have local partner forces in Syria fought against others other than ISIL with Norwegian support? And: Have such forces violated human rights or the international law of war while they were supported by Norway? I have answered these questions thoroughly and fully, and I would like to repeat it in this Chamber as well: Local partner forces in Syria have not fought against anyone other than ISIL during the periods we have been with them on the ground, but we cannot guarantee for the periods we have not been with them. I am also not aware that they have fought against others other than ISIL after we concluded the cooperation. We have reports of one serious incident related to violations of the international law of the war in which local partner forces were involved while they were supported by Norway. It was this incident I pointed out in my reply to the Storting on 29 May. This was definitely followed up locally. The defence stopped working with this group while the circumstances were clarified, and the bodies of the Storting were informed. This shows that the defence is very conscious of the framework of the national mandate for our participation in the fight against ISIL. Our procedures to follow possible violations of human rights or the international law of war worked very well. I can't go into any further details about these conditions. It's because of the security of operations, the security of our personnel and the intelligence cooperation with our allies. I look forward to taking this opportunity to answer questions that Stortinget still had to answer to the Norwegian Government on Norway's contribution to the fight against ISIL.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2703	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2708	It's important, as many have been involved, to have a discussion and open debate on our foreign affairs. We are about to receive the evaluation of Libya, and we have received a thorough evaluation of our Afghanistan effort. My question is: What concrete recommendations from a wide selection of Afghanistan have been followed up in the evaluation of this contribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2713	It was a question I must be allowed to come back to. It goes a little bit beyond what I have in the back of my head right now. So I have to be allowed to ask to come back with an answer to that to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2719	I thank the Council of State for the article. We may have a slightly different view of whether all the answers in this case have been clear and clear, but at least we have the chance now. If we take the first issue first, has Norwegian interest rate forces fought against others other than ISIL? Here I record that the Council of State now says that this has not happened in the time Norwegian soldiers have been with them on the ground. I noticed that, because what we've asked for now has been that it has happened during the period these forces have received training from Norway, i.e. during the period that the training has taken place, from the first date to the end of the assignment. I have experienced the government's previous response as a rejection of the class struggle claim that it has happened during the period. Does this mean that it may have happened during the period, just not when Norwegian soldiers were with them on the ground?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2724	We have been clear that we have no information that this has happened. We've also been clear that it's been working on the rules, the conditions for the strengths we've given. We have also been clear in the past, including in the Prime Minister's statement, that we cannot guarantee what happens afterwards. But as I say here, we're not familiar with the fact that they've fought against other people than ISIL after we ended the cooperation, and we don't know that they've fought against other people than ISIL in any period between that we've instructed and been with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2729	Just to confirm it clearly: I feel that in written reply to me, the Council has rejected the Class Battle case, which has been concerned that this should not have happened to Norwegian soldiers on the ground along with the militia while they fought against others other than ISIL, but during the period they received training. Is it that way to understand that the Council of State still cannot establish that the class struggle is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2734	We also said that we have no information. When we're out training with the forces, our crews work very closely with them. We use considerable intelligence resources in the area, the coalition has had considerable intelligence resources and getting information about what has happened. We have said that the local forces have not fought against anyone other than ISIL in the periods we have mentored them and been with them. We have no knowledge that it happened when we haven't been with them, and we have no knowledge that anything like that should have happened after we ended the engagement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2739	Then I almost have to repeat my question, because in one written answer that SV has received from the Council of State, I feel that there is a clear rejection of the Class struggle case. But can I just confirm it quite clearly: the Minister of Defense does not know that the class struggle claim that one of these militias fought against other than ISIL during the period of training is wrong? The Minister of Defense doesn't know that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2747	We've been close when we've been in the forces, we're there with intelligence, the coalition is there with strengths and with intelligence, we share information, we get information from others. We have no knowledge that what is claimed in the class struggle should have happened. It hasn't happened in the time we were close to the forces, and we have no knowledge that it should have happened in the periods between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2752	The last line: Then I just recorded that what I thought was a finished piece of this, there is more uncertainty attached to it anyway. But then to another case, namely the case that appeared in the class struggle yesterday, which is again a claim based on sources in Syria, where it is claimed that two people should have been killed by Norwegian 13 militants at some point last year. In yesterday's newspaper, the department tells us that they are not familiar with this incident, and I wonder if the Minister of Defence has examined the matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2759	So the first question, we're trying to be as clear as we can, so we've been informed about the facts and what we know. So that's how many statements are made that we can't immediately shut down, but when we say we don't know, we don't know. With regard to this incident mentioned in the Class Battle yesterday, the Ministry of Defence and Defence have only known about these claims through the media. The claims relate to matters that happened outside of service, and the personnel that we train must, of course, relate to local law. It is also the case that in the investigation of such offences one will be responsible to police and local prosecution authorities. As I started with, the Ministry of Defence and the Defence have only known about these claims through the media, we have not revealed any knowledge of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2766	In 2016, Eriksen Soreide stated that you should use lie detectors and personal interviews to select armed groups to be trained by Norway. Then it's strange that today there's so little knowledge among the government's members about what these groups could have actually done on the ground in Syria, the ones we've trained for armed conflict. When the government is not willing to say that much, perhaps the population should be given the opportunity to investigate the matter itself, not least the media, and absolutely crucial to examining whether the mandate has been respected, it is to know which armed groups Norway has trained into Syria. So I'm going to ask the Council of State if we can get an answer to which groups it's about, which has thus received training from Norway during the period of the assignment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2773	It's not the right thing to do here, that we don't know much about the strengths we've trained. The coalition made a major effort to select the partner strengths to be trained and fought with. A major effort has also been made to make these forces aware of the rules of being in the coalition, to get support, to get equipment. That's also how we can't share all the sensitive information, for several reasons. Firstly, it is operationally sensitive to the forces we have inside. It will create greater vulnerability to our forces if they go into such operations later. And it's about sharing knowledge in a cooperative coalition, and getting knowledge from our coalition partners, we have to keep on, just to maintain the trust we need in the kind of operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2778	In Iraq, the government clearly said that you were training peshmerga, so you have some kind of precedent to tell me who you're training. And I don't understand how naming the groups we've trained should be a problem, so when one of the groups stands out in Norwegian media and tells me what they've done – and not done – after receiving training from Norwegian forces. So this should be possible to answer. So, what groups is Norway actually trained? In addition, I would like an answer as to whether the State Council will – at least – investigate the claims made in the Class struggle yesterday that Norwegian interest-rate forces have killed two civilians in a refugee camp, while the Norwegian service mission was under way. Is there anything the Council of State would like to examine about votes, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2786	In order to follow the reasoning of Moxnes, it requires that you have blind faith in any statement given about this scenario, and in the class struggle. We justify the information regime we have with the security of our forces. We justify the information regime that we have in this way building trust among local forces in such situations. We justify the information regime we have that sharing information also creates trust between the coalition partners. It should be quite clear that it is not so difficult to create a disinformation campaign in such a theater. We've been down there with training and mentoring to teach the forces about the international rights of war, about human rights. It is a mission that has been done very well by the Norwegian forces, but the consideration of their safety now and in the future makes us run a tight information regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2793	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2800	With regard to the two different issues that the Minister of Defence has answered unclearly through weeks of debate, both before and after the presentation in Stortinget, they are about two quite different issues. One is about the question of whether Norwegian interest-rate forces may have fought against other than ISIL. It is important, because it concerns the mandate of the government to inform the Storting that the forces had, and because it concerns the issue of the international law of Norwegian participation. I am surprised at what we heard in the last speech by the Minister of Defence, when a combined-with-the-ground is put in place as a premise to reject the fact that Norwegian interest-rate forces have controlled others other than ISIL, because no one has claimed that Norwegian forces were on the ground with these militias as it should have happened. I just want to read out an answer I have received in the past in writing from the Minister of Defence: ‘The government has not received a report that Norwegian trained forces have fought against other than ISIL as claimed by the Class Battle.’ I perceived it as a clear rejection of the class struggle case. So now there's a new premise that hasn't been in before. Then my question is again whether the Minister of Defense can cancel the Class Battle case, because it has been the impression we have received in the past. If he cannot, we have to ask new questions, because then I believe the Ministry of Defence must undertake to investigate this matter. It is so serious that it does not just keep not having received reporting. Then Stortinget must ask the Minister of Defence to investigate the matter. I believe the same must apply to the matter that was mentioned in the class struggle earlier this week. I understand that the Ministry of Defence does not know the matter, but my expectation was that the Minister of Defence for the debate today would have come to know the matter. That is why my question is whether the Minister of Defence is investigating this matter and will come back with an answer to it. I would like the Minister of Defence to take the floor again and reply as to whether he intends to investigate. whether the case of the class struggle that one of the Norwegian militias should have fought against other than ISIL may be correct; and on the matter of the week relating to a possible episode of Norwegian interest-rate militiamen and two-person killings may be correct Does the Minister for Defence intend to investigate this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2825	I noticed Tetzschner's consideration of what is important for Red in this matter. I want to explain to you that, like many others, we have learned that in a war it is a little inconceivable. We also have experience that groupings that are supported one day, the next day can prove to have completely different goals for their warfare than those they specified the day before. We should have learned so much from the wars of the last few years that taking easy on who we're training for armed action, and keeping secret what these groups have been doing since, is not very clever. It should also be important for the Storting to be absolutely sure that the premises underpinning the mission have been complied with, not least the international legal basis for the training mission. That's why Red Digs in these questions and demands to be answered in an open magnificence about those who have been trained by Norwegian soldiers, have adhered to the mandate that was in force, and have only fought against IS, or have also waged the war for a regime change. It is not very reassuring when we get a poor answer to that, or when we get one answer in writing, as the answer to the Lighthouse, and a slightly different answer verbally here in the Storting today. This may indicate that there is a need for an opposition on the Storting that not only swallows up the government but asks critical questions and digs deeper into the issues – not least when the most significant of the information we have recently received has unfortunately come through the media and not from the government. It's kind of funny if we're going to have a debate out there, in public, based on open sources from groups that have been trained by the Norwegian military in Syria, while inside the Stortinget we have a government that won't even admit that they've trained these groups. So I would also like to encourage the Hill-Jensen to answer clearly the questions that have been asked almost ten times here in the Chamber today, and to give the Stortinget clear answers to the question of which groups we have trained, and whether it is known that these groups have violated international law and the mandate on which the mission was based.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2834	I am very much in favour of as open a debate as possible on these issues. I believe it is of the most important debates we take in this Chamber. But we have to have, for their sakes, in sensitive operations, an information regime that protects our forces. We'll do the same. It's probably like that, almost no matter what kind of answer we give, it's going to get twisted. We have good procedures in Norway to be out in such operations. It is now claimed that the mandate has not been complied with. Well, we have made contributions, we have informed about the mandate, we have adhered to the mandate, and we have been within the mandate. We have a professional defence, and they are good at dealing with the legislation, the mandate and the mission they are given. Of course, it will be quite possible to find voices that differ from our story. That shows the debate we have had. But our forces have trained the partner forces in a professional way. In the case where a breach was detected, one has acted correctly. We have no knowledge of other human rights violations or international crimes. As regards the matter in the media yesterday, we examined it at the request of the Lighthouse. My answer is: the Ministry of Defence and the Defence only have knowledge of these claims through the media. The claims relate to non-service relationships — they are described in the media. Of course, staff who we train should deal with local law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2843	The representative Audun Lysbakken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2848	I have not accused anyone of deviating from the government's story. I'm just wondering what the government's story is, because it's very confusing. I have also asked for answers to some basic questions since 20 April, and it is still not possible to get a clear answer. The expectations are not only that the Ministry of Defence can inform us about what they are doing with information, but also that the Minister of Defence, when such serious accusations are made, investigates whether they can be held – investigates what is right about the issue from April that it should have been fought against others other than ISIL, and investigates whether there may be anything in the matter that has arisen this week in the Class struggle. I believe that this debate makes it necessary to ask more questions – they will come – and it shows very clearly why proposals for criticism of the Minister of Defence are justified. I hope several parties will now think about support for that. Finally, I will give a very brief explanation of vote: the three proposals from Red highlight important questions about transparency. We agree with that, and the SV Group will therefore vote in favour of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2857	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2862	So there's a militia that says publicly that they're trained by Norwegian forces in a mission that's been completed for the Norwegian forces. Then the question is, why can't the government tell us which militias we've trained when it's a finished assignment? If I heard correctly, the council said when it was the episode that the class struggle described: We have investigated the matter – the event happened outside of duty time, and they have to deal with local law. If I heard correctly, does that mean that the Council of State now confirms the event, and that it happened outside of duty time? Or has it not been examined? It was a little bit difficult to find out what was being said, so I would like to have a clear answer as to whether the department and the council have investigated this incident, found some facts about it, and whether you want to do something further to inform the Storting about what has actually happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2869	The President will remind the representative that all speeches are to be passed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2874	Implications may occur in two ways: either the sender is unclear or the receiver is susceptible to confusion. There was a discussion about that event. The Ministry of Defence and the Defence have examined it. The Ministry of Defence and Defence have no knowledge of the other than what is written in the media. In the media I can read that it is a relationship that has happened outside of service. Of course, staff who we train should relate to local laws. If it is as described in the media, this is a matter for local prosecution authorities and local police.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2882	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2898	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines with up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2907	The case concerns a three-part proposal from the representative of the Björn Moxnes of the Red Party, requesting that the Stortinget stop the export of Norwegian defence equipment to Turkey, urges the Turkish Government to withdraw its military forces from Syria and increase humanitarian aid to refugees from the Afrin area. The attitude shows that no one supports the proposals as they are formulated. SV promotes an alternative proposal, asking the government to stop the export of arms and armaments to Turkey until the exemption laws are repealed and Turkey terminates its military operation in Afrin. I guess both parties will explain their proposals. The Progress Party considers the proposals made by the representative of Moxnes as a domestic policy game with serious foreign policy implications. The proposals by the representative do not contribute to a safer world or to a more peaceful Middle East. On the contrary, the proposals will have the opposite effect. Diplomacy is a balance between principles and realities. As a small country, Norway is totally dependent on maintaining and establishing good relations with our partners, allies and neighbouring countries. Furthermore, we cannot pursue national policies that act in relation to third countries. It can be desirable many times, but at the same time it can have quite the opposite effect. Norway is rarely served alone in major foreign policy issues. We can have different views and policies in terms of alliance relations or foreign policy that only affect ourselves, but we cannot appear as a world domestic political champion with potential global consequences. We can think a lot about developments in, for example, Turkey, but small Norway is not in a position to force a change in Turkish policy, no matter how desirable some might think this would be. Turkey is a member of the NATO Defence Alliance. It's the same alliance Norway is a member of. Turkey is the only Muslim country in NATO, and it can be claimed that it forms ties and builds bridges to the European continent. At the same time, you might think that these bands are under pressure, and that the common denominator between Turkey and the rest of the defence alliance is smaller and weaker. All right, what's up? Are we going to put ourselves in such a situation on our moral high horse, as the representative of the Moxnes wants, or are we going to try through diplomacy within, for example, the NATO alliance to create a common policy and attitude towards Turkey? The truth is that any Norwegian alone in such issues can create far more conflicts than it solves. It can create more war, and more blood, but it can certainly create a new surge of opinion for the Red Party, because so many rigged principles are not found in any other parties. I wish the world were as simple as the representative of Moxnes makes it as it is. But unfortunately, slogans such as ‘No to war’, ‘No to nuclear weapons’, ‘Norway out of NATO’, ‘Open borders’, ‘Remove all hunger’ and ‘Global community under a sky full of stars’ do not mean that everyone else wants the opposite. This means that everyone else does not believe that the answers to very complex and complex global questions can be solved by simple decisions in the Norwegian National Assembly, no matter how elegantly they are presented. The Committee notes that Turkey’s stated objective of the military operation, which began in January of this year, was to secure its borders and neutralise terrorists in Afrin from the Syrian-Curdian YPG militia. Turkey looks at YPG as a terrorist group, closely associated with the Turkish PKK and ISIL. Furthermore, the Committee notes that Turkey authorises the operation of international law's right to self-defense, and that it argues that the purpose is not to occupy Aphrin permanently but to combat terrorists. Turkey still has a military presence in the area. In such a perspective, it is essential that Turkey has clearly defined objectives in a limited time horizon for its military offensive. Turkey is also obliged to comply with the rules of war. Norway has made this clear to the Turkish authorities. As long as Turkey is an allied NATO country, it is natural that other NATO countries are open to export arms, ammunition and other military material to Turkey. However, it is a two - edged sword. The United States has long been the main supplier of weapons to Turkey. However, the United States has been somewhat less willing to sell advanced air protection, which has helped Turkey to acquire advanced weapons from Russia. This will be a demanding situation over time. Like other NATO countries, Norway offers sales licences on an individual basis. Selling defense systems is not something you can say yes to at one moment, because in the next moment say no. You can't turn on and off like a light switch. Deliveries of defence systems extend over several years. Of course, this also applies to Norwegian developed and produced systems. An example is Norway’s acquisition of F-35. The first conversations between Norway and the United States about them took place just after the thousandth anniversary, and the last deliveries will take place in 2024 as planned. In addition, supplies of essential spare parts and maintenance and training of pilots are provided. In this perspective, the Committee stresses that if Norway is to have a viable defence and security industry, this will require companies to have clear and predictable export conditions and frameworks. It is possible that the representative, Mr Moxnes, does not want us to have a defence industry. It's going to be up to the party Red, but it's a completely different discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2935	To accuse others of having a too simple view of the world on the same day as Donald Trump was nominated at the Nobel Peace Prize, I think it's a little special. But to the point: the Kurds have been one of the most important allies in the fight against ISIL and have made a huge effort with great sacrifices to combat terrorism in Syria. They have also, to a relatively large extent, managed to maintain some form of stability, even development, in the areas of Syria they have controlled. The response from Turkey has been invasion, and from the West there has been silence in meeting that invasion. It's common to say in this room that NATO is a community of values. If that community of values means that we should remain silent or refrain from acting when assaults or false warfare are perpetrated by allies, the community of values is not worth very much. One might also wonder how strong the community of values between Norway and the Erdogan government really is. It is very important that we show our will to stand by the Kurdish people, even in a situation where they have enemies other than ISIL. It's not about sitting on any morally high horse. It is a question of whether the Kurds are worthy of our support and solidarity, and we believe that they are. Just because Turkey is a NATO country, it is particularly important that we respond. It is precisely in contact with our own allies that we have more opportunity to influence and stand up for something than we have with other countries. That is why SV has put forward a proposal in the vote, which we will of course stand by today, and which I mention with this. We will also vote in favour of the two solutions to the matter. I want to add that I view the last of the two as somewhat unclear. It would not be easy to expect Syrian rebel groups to withdraw from Syria, but I believe that the intention of this proposal is for them to withdraw from Afrin and the Kurdish-controlled areas. With that understanding SV will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2948	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2953	Red proposes that the government should distance itself from the international invasion of Syria by Turkey and provide emergency aid to those who flee the invasion. We do that for a lot of reasons. First, we do it to support the people affected by the invasion of Turkey. It has largely affected the Kurdish minority. But it's also about Norway's responsibility, since both we and Turkey are part of the same military alliance, and it's about Norway's security interests – it's about Norway's needing a world order where militaryly superior countries can't go loose on smaller countries, as well as that Turkey's invasion strengthens the terrorist group IS. Turkey has a long history of repression against the Kurdish minority in the country. So now they have invaded Syrian territory to carry on the war against the Kurds in that country. The stated aim of the Turkish regime with the invasion is to crush the Kurdish regime in northern Syria, which is one of the very few political projects in Syria that are both secular and democratic. The Turkish regime has also condemned the UN Resolution on Armistice in Syria and has stated directly that Turkey has the right to carry out what they call "jihad", i.e. holy war for Islam, on Syrian territory. The Foreign Affairs Committee then notes in its statement that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has told the Turkish authorities about the Norwegian views on the role of Turkey in Syria. The government should then be equally clear to Norway, the Norwegian people and the peoples of Norway. If the government doesn't clearly distance itself from Turkey's invasion of Syria, it seems most of all that Norway gives a sort of tacit acceptance that a NATO ally invades another country to run what they themselves call holy war, in violation of international law. The country of NATO France has stated that the Turkish invasion is contrary to international law. As a small country, Norway is served by an international system based on international law, where militaryly strong states cannot accommodate military weaker states. Therefore, in our view, it is harmful to Norway's interests if our government does not take a clear distance from a non-national invasion of another country. In addition, for every war of aggression started by a NATO country, there is an increased risk that other NATO countries too may be attacked by those invaded by NATO countries. Both eyewitnesses and local organisations report that the Turkish invasion has resulted in killings on civilians, abductions, significant destruction of civil infrastructure and also mass migration. Therefore, Red proposes that the government take the initiative to help refugees, with humanitarian aid, so that they can remain in their neighbourhoods and do not have to resort to a deadly flight against Europe. There should be parties that say they want to help people where they live and where they are, fully support here in the Storting. Red will vote for SV's proposal to stop selling Norwegian military material to Turkey as long as they occupy parts of Syria. In addition, we are firmly committed to our own original proposals that the Turkish-supported Islamic militias must be withdrawn, and that the government is providing emergency aid to the refugees from the Afrin area so that they can get help in their neighbourhoods and return home when Turkey and their allied Islamic militias withdraw from the area. I'll bring it up to Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2970	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2975	I was going to let the rapporteur's excellent presentation of a broadly overall committee position also be my position in the matter, but there are a few articles that deserve a little more attention. For the first representative, Mr Moxnes, who, in his previous speech — and also in a previous debate — has undertaken to teach the Grand Duchy of International Law. There may well be fractions in what has been said, to which you can nod you recognize, for example. that large countries are not able to respond to small countries, but it has not been a very good idea to apply to the specific dilemmas facing them in Turkey. What I thought I was going to bring to the attention of the House of Great Britain is that we are facing a representative who, in his political practice, has expressed support for Russia's international law occupation and subsequent annexation of Crimea – for it stated the party he is still referring to as a one-man group. That's great, unfortunately I can't think of anyone other than Mr. Moxnes, but it must be nice to have a one-man party – he doesn't have to confer with anyone. However, there is a collective body in Red called the Central Government – or perhaps the Central Committee is more right in those circles – that has stated that the current regime in Ukraine did not come to power legitimately. They expressed support for the predecessor Janukovich, who was deployed by Putin, and they say that the change, based on what happened in Majdan Square, was a coup inspired by the West. So much for the international legal understanding of the representative from Red. I also think it is quite significant, and also a little worrying, that in addition to this, he seems to have become the SV's spiritual leader in some questions here, by the fact that the representative Lightbaken still has to join these reasonings from such a far-reaching representative as we have seen here. As far as the position is concerned, I can at least say, unlike in the previous case, that the committee is expressed by an overwhelmingly clear and united majority. It is agreed that the export of weapons taking place is within the Norwegian principles. It respects the ATT Code, which has been developed in the UN, and it is also good within the EU's developed policy in this area. That doesn't mean you have to let go of these issues and say everything's fine. We also have the annual notification, Meld. Art. No. 5, which gives a complete overview of what is exported, on which premises, and to whom. It is also the case, first of all, that self-defense is accepted when the neighbouring areas are used as launch ramps and operating areas that threaten the integrity of a recognised state. It also applies to these militias operating. The YPG militia is referred to as ISIL and the PKK – which is on Western terrorist lists. Based on an overall assessment, and of course on the assumption that our foreign authorities follow the situation, take a stand on the individual export licence and stay informed, the Stortinget can continue to support the policy of Stortinget provided that the government is to follow. That is why it is quite reasonable to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e2990	The Committee's position shows that there is broad agreement on the main features of Norwegian Syria policy, and I am pleased about that. The Syrian conflict is within its eighth year, and many actors and different interests complicate the efforts to find a solution to the conflict, which has created enormous human suffering and major challenges in neighbouring countries. 13 million people need humanitarian aid, 5 million of them are children. 5.5 million acids have fled the country, and over 6 million are on the run in Syria. With regard to the proposal for a representative to be discussed today, I have, in a letter to the Committee, examined Norwegian views on the various issues raised. The representative proposal has three elements, and I will briefly go through each of the three. First, Turkey's relationship with Syria. Turkey borders Syria and experiences the conflict both in terms of security and as a recipient of 3.5 million Syrian refugees. Turkey bears a great responsibility, which I have communicated both in this room and on the outside in several rounds. The Turkish authorities have assured that Turkey does not intend to occupy Afrin permanently, but no timetable for the withdrawal of the military forces has been published. The Government has repeatedly called on all parties to the Syrian conflict to refrain from acts that may impede political solutions in Syria and the fight against ISIL. We have repeatedly also underlined the importance that Turkey does not go beyond what is necessary and proportional in order to prevent and respond to attacks on Turkish territory. We are following the Syria crisis very closely, and the increased internationalisation of the conflict has helped to make the peace settlement work even more difficult. We are also following closely the question of the role of Turkey, and I have myself taken up the role of Turkey in Afrin with my colleague Cavusoglu not long ago. The government will continue to raise and discuss these issues. Then to the second: Norway's humanitarian contribution to Syria and neighbouring countries. In the previous debate, I presented our commitments of 10 billion. kr to Syria and neighbouring countries over four years, a promise we are well on our way to fulfilling – and we are on our way. That is, this year we will grant at least 2.25 billion. humanitarian aid to Syria and neighbouring countries. This makes Norway the fifth largest donor country. However, humanitarian aid is also given in line with the humanitarian principles of humanity, impartiality, independence and neutrality. Our partners will seek to reach those who are in need and who at all times need the most. Therefore, humanitarian aid is not specifically earmarked for specific areas. As I was in the previous debate, of course, we have no restrictions on who should receive this humanitarian aid – whether in a rebel-controlled or government-controlled area, there is just as much need and demand for humanitarian aid, and we do not distinguish. The UN and its partners have now stepped up their humanitarian response in connection with Afrin to internally displaced areas. Syrian and Turkish Red Crescent and other Turkish, Syrian and international NGOs participate with emergency aid. The UN has coordinated several emergency relief supplies from Gaziantep and into Afrin and neighbouring areas. Syria has the primary responsibility for the serious humanitarian situation in the country. Lack of Syrian involvement in the UN-led peace process to find political solutions to the conflict makes it difficult to ensure stability in Syria and the region. Finally and third, exports of defence equipment. All applications for export of defence material to Turkey are subject to a thorough assessment based on the guidelines of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The assessment addresses a number of domestic and foreign policy issues, and the 1959 decision of the Grand Duchy, with its subsequent additions, is fundamental. On a general basis, it is emphasised that the legislation provides for the grounds for refusing or withholding exports of defence equipment if exports are considered to be incompatible with the applicable guidelines, including whether it is established from an authoritative point of view that a country infringes humanitarian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3018	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3023	Thank you for the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. YPG has cooperated with the coalition that has controlled IS. They have been found to be the most effective ground forces to drive IS out of the territories they have previously controlled and have been fundamentally essential to combat this terrorist organisation on the ground in Syria. And then this is going to be in the room of other representatives, as if YPG is a kind of terrorist organization itself. Is it so that the government's view is that YPG is a terrorist group, or are they considered part of the coalition in the fight against IS?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3029	To give some context to the answer: One of the concerns we had about Turkey's operations in Afrin was that the fight against ISIL began to slow down in many places, because from YPG and others attention was directed elsewhere. Fresh reports we now have indicate that the operations are going on again, and that is important in order to prevent ISIL’s foothold in the pockets that were now involved. PKK and YPG are, as the representative is well-known, not on the UN terrorist lists, and it has been important in the discussion that we are now fighting ISIL jointly, that the SDF forces and those who are fighting ISIL have been and are an important ally in the fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3034	Thank you for a clear and good answer to that question. As far as emergency aid is concerned, as we know, the vast majority of those fleeing the Afrin area are in the Shahba area, and Norway does not participate in emergency aid as of today. Is it true that this is the case, and does Norway also intend to provide emergency aid in this part of the region, where most of the Afrin refugees live?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3039	As I was in my answer, we are careful to earmark the humanitarian aid to certain areas of Syria. The reason for that is very simple. It's the needs that govern, and we use the UN and partners. It is, as we were in the previous debate we had here, often very difficult with access, including humanitarian access, in Syria. We are very concerned that our humanitarian aid should not be politicised either, in the sense that it is only given in specific areas – or given more in specific areas – simply because the needs are so huge that we depend on being able to use our partners on the ground in a good way where there is access to emergency aid. The fact that we are such a great giver is important for both the United Nations system, the Red Crescent/Red Cross and others who have that approach – that we are a great and stable giver, who also has the opportunity, as we have done in some context, to increase help beyond that, simply because we see the need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3044	Finally on proportionality. Afrin had been bombing across the border from Turkey for a long time, but there was no response to counteractions entering Turkey for that reason. Then there's something about the invasion, among other things. has become a large flow of refugees, has been attacked by important historical cultural memories, and people have had to leave their homes. I wonder if the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have any assessment of the proportionality of the attacks that follow with the Turkish invasion of Syria. Can the government elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3049	As I have mentioned both in the response to the committee and now in the debate, the government is concerned – and has been and will be involved – that both in this matter and in other similar matters, there are obligations to act within what is necessary and proportionate in order to safeguard its security interests. We have not done our own studies of proportionality from Norway, but we have had the same response and response as many parts of the international community have had. We have also addressed this with Turkish authorities in several rounds to make sure that this is not a permanent presence, which, as I was told, complicates the conflict further, and also of course to encourage restraint, as the United Nations has done, and to which we have joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3054	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3072	This applies to the announcement of the International Delegations of the Storting in the year that went on, 2017. It has given me at least occasion for something I've been thinking about for a long time, and it's going back in history and investigating when we started, and when international cooperation started. If we go to the history of the Storting in 1964–2014, it is said that there is a long tradition of international parliamentary cooperation. It started already in the 1800s and has evolved gradually over the post-war period. The majority participates in this process by appointing permanent parliamentary delegations of members. In a review of this one begins with 1964 and writes that there are currently eight such cooperation delegations. Now this has probably increased since then, but at that time there were eight such delegations of permanent members. There is cooperation in the Interparliamentary Union, referred to as the IPU. It's been since 1889, and it's still going on. The delegation to the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly was first appointed in 1949. This means that the Council of Europe delegation will be in an anniversary meeting next year – 70 years. The NATO delegation goes back to 1955. The Great Britain delegation to the Nordic Council dates back to 1962 and the OSCE to 1992. In 1977, a parliamentary EFTA delegation was set up, which from 1992 will also meet in the EEA. From 1994 there has been a delegation to the Arctic Parliamentary Committee. As I dived into the story, I wanted to refer to something Knut Frydenlund has said. He said in 1982, to compare the commitment of the various parliaments to international cooperation: ‘The general increased interest in foreign policy also prevails in the EEA. [[...]] Compared to the situation in other countries, the Norwegian Grand Duchy is probably one of the world’s national assemblies most concerned with international issues and foreign policy. Something else is that this exposure also varies from area to area. There are certain areas in which the Storting is particularly concerned, such as aid policy, the human rights situation in other countries and the situation in southern Africa.» He also says, ‘It is probably not a national assembly in the world which debates to the extent that votes have taken place in the United Nations.’ This is what Knut Frydenlund said in 1982. It's also worth noting when we go back in the history of the international delegations that the Storting has appointed, that there's no overall representation of when it started, what the commitment was, and how we treated this. But when we look at what was written in 1955 about the Nordic Council, it is said at the time that there was a particular text that was treated equally and at the same time, both in the Danish Parliament, in the Finnish and Swedish Riksdags and in the Norwegian Grand Duchy, and that the delegations were then concerned about representing different political views. What we are dealing with now is about the annual reports from the Delegates of Storting to the interparliamentary assemblies, which also provide a picture of the wide range of activities of Storting. The reports describe the work of the various delegations and the themes that have shaped the work of the year that went on. Delegations have varying thematic and geographical scope and different links with the multilateral forums that are just reflecting it. Although Parliamentary assemblies are different in character, they also have many common features. Human rights and the development of democracy are at the heart of several parliamentary assemblies. After enlargement on 11 September and during the autumn of last year, the composition of the delegations was changed. For the work of the Stortinget in a number of issues and issues, we see the importance of European cooperation at the heart of several of the Storting International Delegations. Then it is worth mentioning, among other things. The United Kingdom’s decision to leave the EU. It has shaped the work here in Stortinget, but it has also shaped the delegation to the EFTA/EEA area. It is also the case that the consequences of Brexit are noted in Norway. EFTA and the EEA have been carefully discussed at meetings with parliamentarians in Brussels and London, and it has also been up to the European Committee of the United Kingdom on several occasions. In the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, the main challenges in cooperation have been Russia, the situation in Turkey – a lot of work has been done in 2017 – and the human rights and corruption violations of various countries have also been given attention. As regards the Arctic Delegation of the United States of America and the EFTA/EEA delegation, they have had increased contact with Members of the European Parliament, just to find out what has been the Norwegian views and interests in matters under consideration. The refugee crisis that we saw started in 2014–2015 – in 2015 in particular – has also marked the year that passed, and has worked in several of the delegations. The theme of the general debate in the Interparliamentary Union, IPU, during the autumn session in St. Petersburg, was the promotion of cultural pluralism and peace through interreligious and inter-ethnic dialogue. The conflict between Russia and Ukraine has characterized the work of several parliamentary assemblies since Russia’s annexation of Crimea and the conflict in eastern Ukraine broke out. With regard to the work of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, the parties to the Ukraine crisis and their inability to engage in constructive dialogue in interparliamentary cooperation have been clear throughout the previous year. It's also worth noting the work in PACE, the Council of Europe. The majority sees that Russia has failed to deliver its credentials and has not participated in the Parliamentary Assembly. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly in 2017 has paid much attention to what it considers to be Russia's destabilising activities, and what should be NATO's response to them. The Committee has also noted that increased maritime activity such as fishing, maritime transport and cruise traffic are some of the consequences of the melting of the Arctic ice. NATO PA adopted a report that points to the renewed importance of the northern regions to NATO due to climate change, Russia’s increased military capacity and China’s growing interest in the region. The ASEP delegation looks at Asian countries positioning themselves in the Arctic. Since I chair the European Council delegation on behalf of the Stortinget, with five permanent and five alternates who are all actively participating in the Council of Europe, and because the Council of Europe has 70th anniversary next year, and Norway was one of the initiators of this in 1949, I would like to mention that 2017 has been a challenging year. It's especially because there have been a number of rumors and accusations of corruption. An independent audit committee has been set up, which has just seen in the areas of corruption, which has also had corruption-like activity, as we mention it, and it has had consequences for parliamentarians. It is stated in a report that has been delivered to the Presidency of the United Kingdom, so that we can look at how we organise international work, how we prepare representatives from our Parliamentary Assembly to participate both in election observation and to be active in international delegations – the demands made on it, not only out there, but also in the work we have here at home. In addition, what we call an ad-hoccommittee in the Council of Europe, which now, after nearly 70 years of activity, has up to review the fundamental question – with a bit of a large-scale main cleaning from cellar to ceiling – of what the Council of Europe is really going to be about, back to what we call 'core values', or the basic values that were the basis of that time in 1949, when it was intended to prevent the emergence of World War II as a third. It is about focusing attention on the issues of human rights, the rule of law and the development of democracy. Norway has 204 years of experience with its own constitution and thus also with the development of our country's democracy. Ukraine probably has a little over 20 years of experience. We can ask ourselves how we build a new country, how we build a democracy, how we judge it for the future. This means that the work of the Council of Europe of many of our representatives participating in the Council of Europe is about assisting in debates, in developing and helping other countries that are struggling with precisely what is happening on the principles of the rule of law and the development of democracy, which we have taken for granted in many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3124	A few words about the annual report of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee: EFTA's efforts to expand the network of trade agreements, and during the two-week ministerial meeting in Iceland, a trade agreement with Ecuador will be signed, together with an updated agreement with Turkey. The old agreement with Turkey covered trade in goods. It also includes services, trade facilitation, simplification of customs and veterinary rules – important for fish exports – environmental and labour rights, as well as arbitration rules. EFTA will then have 28 agreements with 38 partners, but negotiations with large countries in Asia are unfortunately still under way. India, Vietnam and Malaysia we've been negotiating with for years, Indonesia the same, but there's probably more to an agreement. The negotiations with Canada and Mexico on updating the old agreements are also under way, and the negotiations with Mercosur, that is Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, are now under way. Both Brazil and Argentina have gradually recognised that protectionist policy is an obstacle to economic growth and development. Argentina sees trade agreements with the EU – with which they also negotiate – and EFTA as an instrument for reform and more stability in the economy. But there will be many sensitive themes that need to find their solution before you reach goals. In addition to the EFTA negotiations, Norway is negotiating bilaterally with China, and we are still trying to get Japan to the negotiating table. One of the issues, as also the representative Mr. Ingerd Schou mentioned, which has been standing on the agenda of our meetings in the Committee over the last few years, is Brexit. It affects us in this way that the British leave the internal market. The EFTA countries do not have a trade agreement with the United Kingdom. We need to have a new agreement, and the negotiations on it can start after March next year. But brexit also affects us in another way. So far, it does not seem that the British agree on what kind of agreement with the EU they want to replace membership with, and there are considerable forces in Parliament now pointing to an EEA agreement as a solution. It will ensure adequate access to the internal market and – perhaps most importantly in this context – resolve the headache with a seamless border between Northern Ireland and Ireland. The EU Chief Negotiator, Barnier, has now also pointed this out as a possible solution. I think it is time for the government and the other EFTA countries to study seriously what interests EFTA countries have in trade policy and how overlapping or diverging they are in the UK. I am afraid that getting a reluctance and political split into the EEA Agreement will be a major challenge. There it is known that the three countries currently present must agree to include new directives in the agreement. Then it makes sense to prepare for it and be well prepared if they were to stand on the tram and knock on the door. Our first obligation must be to maintain our agreement with the EU and to ensure that it continues to work, not to solve the problems of the British.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3137	I take the floor as the leader of Norway's delegation to NATO. I do it because I find it incredibly interesting and useful to be part of that delegation. I also have a good cooperation with Liv Signe Navarsete. I promised to mention her name, so now I've done it. It's instructive. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly is not just the 29 member countries of NATO – only that number is quite incredible if you look back to the 2000s, when there were 13 members, and now it is 29 member countries – but in addition, it is perhaps 20-25 cooperating countries or partner countries, such as Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Israel and a number of other countries. So there is a large assembly of countries that exchange views. Sitting in a parliamentarian's assembly means meeting all kinds of political deformities, which are quite different from other ways of dealing with politics, where it is very often the big parties, which make up the governments of the different countries that are being hit. Hitting and getting input and comments from other political deportations is very useful and very interesting. In the Parliamentary Assembly, we have discussed many areas. Almost all the political areas that have been discussed in this Chamber have also been widely discussed in the Assembly, where we have, of course, also had Secretary-General Stoltenberg present twice a year. He is an incredibly capable secretary-general – I just want to say it right away – and there have been very interesting questions and answers-senses both times. One of the points that was perhaps most obvious and most perceptive to many, was Stoltenberg’s clear response to Georgia’s and Ukraine’s approach to NATO, among others. that both countries have an independent right to choose alliance partners. It's not uncontroversial, but he was very clear on it. There was a lot of applause in the hall. Otherwise, we have had a vote in the Parliamentary Assembly on the Wales Decision of 2014, in which the NATO Member States adopted ‘aims of 2 percent defence spending’. We decided in the Parliamentary Assembly to remove ‘aim two’. So a wide-ranging group of parliamentarians in Europe – i.e. not governments – want to move faster and be more committed to their work in their national parliaments, and expect governments in all the Member States to do what they have promised, and not just ‘sights towards’, ‘hopes for’, ‘should once in the future’ or ‘has ambitions about’, but actually do what was the intention of the Wales Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3150	At a time of growing and much concern at international level – which has been the subject of the case rapporteur, it is different to the work of the various committees – as a member of the British Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation Delegation, it is good to say that cooperation there continues undiminished. The fact that the Storting is a great deal of interest in foreign policy is a strength for the nation and something that I think we should be very pleased about. It opens up opportunities, it shows the way, and not least, it gives the Stortinget the opportunity to put Norway into a bigger context than always just look at ourselves. For the Central Party, it is important, and we believe that we should continue that work and be present at the important arenas, both early, en route and in retrospect. In this way, a previous talk was about the relationship with the EEA and EFTA and the importance of Norway being early out, and that the government is taking action here. To the work of the Great Britain delegation for Arctic parliamentary cooperation: cooperation works well, and we know that there is an increased interest in the Arctic. It shows, among other things: the interest that the Nordic Council has taken in the work of the Norwegian Grand Prix in this area, with which we have been invited to several meetings. It also shows the context in which we have attended meetings of the European Parliament. I think there are several of the representatives who could get a little surprise from attending such a meeting and have been described how reality looks from Brussels. It's one thing that reality can look different from this hall when we talk about the north areas, but it's at least different when we get down there. The largest delegation for Arctic parliamentary cooperation naturally has a climate high on the agenda, like many of the other committees. It is a pleasure to track that several of the committees are engaged in a field that is going to affect us more and more in the future, and that will require greater international cooperation in order to meet the challenges properly and effectively. With regard to climate change, Norway has some special interests, such as an Arctic state and as an administrator of large sea areas in the northern regions and not least with a border with Russia. In this context, it is interesting to know whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs has noticed that earlier today the northern areas were discussed in the debate on the municipal proposition – that is, how we finance the welfare services in Norway – in the light of what a representative previously had to do with a typography by representatives from the Right and the Progress Party. It is about the fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the vote believe that the Troms and Finnmark counties are Norway’s main foreign policy area. I tried to get an answer from the Minister of State as to whether it meant that the government's Northern Region Strategy from 2017 was changing, or whether this was an expression of something that has been widely known. In fact, not only the Troms and Finnmark counties – to which the members of the government parties referred – but also the other states in Norway have had extensive cooperation with states that have interests in the northern regions, including Russia. I can mention my own state. Nordic countries have had extensive cooperation with regions of friendship in Russia – that is, to a large extent, down at the municipal level – which I assume is well known to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, all the time they have had excellent cooperation with the U.D. on some of these issues. In addition, the Swedish Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation Delegation has had good cooperation with, inter alia, the United Kingdom. The U.D. and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and have initiated half-yearly dialogues, as we have called it, dealing with issues that are important to Norway and which the Great Britain delegation will also be affected when meeting other parliamentary delegations around. I'm going to send a greeting from the committee and say that we've appreciated it very much. We're looking forward to the next one, which is probably just a few days away. The delegation was set up in 2009, in response to an increasing interest in what is being talked about as the northern regions – i.e. as a strategically important foreign policy interest in Norway, not the counties, but the areas as a whole, including Svalbard. It is now time for the 13th Parliamentary Conference this year. Obviously, when discussing Arctic themes, it is important to remember that there are quite a few hundred thousand people living in what is defined as arctic areas. When discussing living conditions and opportunities for both business development, innovation and research, it is clear that the work of the Stortinge is important in this delegation, among other things. by taking part in the debate, in particular in the international arena, to provide information on the opportunities available in the northern regions and the people living there. This is because the vast majority of images you see from Arctic areas are of pristine nature, and it's quick to forget that there are actually quite a lot of people living there, and not least that it's being traded for quite a billion dollars in these areas, which goes to, among other things. activity and export of goods to the rest of the world. In this context, it is important that Norway, as a major player in the northern regions and the Arctic, is also conscious of its responsibilities in search and rescue, i.e. the SAR system. I want to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the work she has done in collaboration with the Maritime Forum Nord to look at what needs to be done in order to be able to continue to make use of those opportunities, in a sustainable way, which have opened up when we now – unfortunately or luckily, as you ask – see that the Arctic is opening up and opportunities are getting bigger. There has been a willingness from this room to be cautious, and that also means that some of these resources need to be put in place in the future, when you see both increased cruise traffic, increased fishing activity, increased mineral activity and not least increased interest from other countries. It is interesting to note that the research side also sees an increasing activity now, among other things. some Asian countries have research stations at Svalbard. It's a work I think this assembly will continue to support. I shall end by saying that there are a number of unresolved problems in the world, including in the Arctic, which means that the Greatness Delegations will have to continue their work. I think it will be important not to reduce the ambitions you have in this field – just to take care of the Norwegian interests in a global world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3175	I would like to take the floor to comment on some of the points raised in the debate, but above all to stress the importance of the work done by the parliamentary delegations. I think that sometimes the big business representatives underestimate their own efforts and their own importance in this area in order to take good care of Norwegian interests. As an old tramp in the Grand Duchy, I also saw very clearly at that time how important it was to engage at parliamentary level, often because the dialogue at parliamentary level can be different from what it is at authority. We see that it opens up to other types of cooperation than what can be done at authority level, and it can reinforce the work already done in connection with contacts. I also believe that the broad impact area of Stortinget has in the parliamentary delegations is a very good picture of what support this is for Norwegian interests and therefore also for the government's work on foreign policy. I am following with interest the debates that are, and of course I also have the privilege of meeting the delegations at regular intervals, and, as the representative of Nordlund rightly points out, already Friday is the new North-area dialogue, which I believe is an important contribution to the common understanding of Norwegian interests, challenges and opportunities, and of course also to putting matters on the agenda in other forums. I am not going to spend time on it now, but I have many examples of how important parliamentary contact has been, for example. against party groups in the European Parliament or against the European Parliament directly. I myself visited the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs not long ago to talk a little about Norwegian foreign policy and to draw a picture of how we see the world. It is clear that there are important arenas to use also for parliamentarians. This is exactly the same in relation to NATO and EFTA Parliamentary Assemblys and all other assemblies, of which we see the absolute benefit. Then I will also link some comments to the northern regions. It is a fact that very many people outside the borders of Norway view the north as something that is cold, that is desolate, and where there is not much happening. A lot of people are surprised when I remember 10 pst. the population of Norway lives in what is defined as arctic areas. That's where people live and study, that's where you start businesses, and that's where you're going to go to old-age homes and nursing homes. Two thirds of Norwegian export income comes from coastal and sea-based industries — also an important image on the coast in general, but in the northern regions in particular. As Mr Stortinget knows, the Prime Minister has taken the initiative to establish an international maritime panel on sustainable marine economy. It is also an important contribution to understanding what from a Norwegian perspective is very important, namely that it is possible to combine sustainable use with sustainable protection. It's not either–or, it's possible to combine. There is a position that we feel that not all countries have. There are very many countries that are either very concerned about protection or very concerned about the exploitation of resources. The reality is that to be able to feed a growing population, to be able to exploit the enormous potential of marine resources – not least, the sea is becoming increasingly important as a transport route – we also need to do so in a sustainable way and find the balance Norway has been able to find between protection and use. I very often use the example of the Arctic cod stock, which in 1989 was at a low level, a bulge, but thanks to good common administration from Norwegian and Russian sides, we now have a cod stock that is very sustainable and viable, and which provides an average economic income base of approximately. 2 billion. dollars every year. It tells something about the importance of sustainable management, but also that it is possible to combine protection and use. And there's a very important point in the panel the prime minister has put down: to use it as an argument for Norwegian positions in the area. Let me link a few comments to the question of trade. As the representative Svein Roald Hansen had in mind, there are several trade negotiations going on. We have a good hope of ending negotiations with Indonesia during the year. I had a visit to the Indonesian ambassador last night. We discussed issues such as: This is because there are now several high-level visits from Indonesia that are also coming in, and this is an important part of the subject. I traveled to Japan not long ago. One of the main issues was the discussion on economic partnership agreement between Norway and Japan, which is a very important area for Norway. What's interesting is that Japan is also very interested in further developing research cooperation with Norway. The fact that we are about to finish the new research station in New Zealand is an important contribution to the cooperation that Japan has been in since – if I don't remember completely wrong – 1979. Finally, some words about brexit. It is as the representative Hansen had in mind, a challenging situation, of course, for Norway not to sit in as part of the negotiations. That's the way it is when you're not an EU member. Of course, we follow the negotiations very closely, but more than that: we also have very close contacts with both the United Kingdom and the EU. We have a clear interest in maintaining as close a relationship as possible with the United Kingdom after Brexit. This means that we need to review a number of trade agreements, in particular, because our trade with the United Kingdom today, which is extensive, mainly goes through the EEA Agreement. We have to get back to other mechanisms. We have a clear interest in an orderly brexit, which means that we can mirror agreements between the EU and the United Kingdom that will serve Norway. The Prime Minister has personally committed himself to the issue of Norwegian citizens' rights in the United Kingdom and vice versa British citizens' rights in Norway and in other EEA and EFTA countries. However, it is also important to stress that one of the most important interests of Norway is to secure the single market. The internal market gives us, as a country of 5 million people, access to a domestic market of 500 million people, with a level playing field for trade, which is exceptionally important for Norwegian industry, for Norwegian businesses and for Norwegian districts, and predictability here is crucial. Norwegian companies know that they can make investments because they have access to a large market. And we're very concerned that everything that could put the EEA Agreement into play, in our opinion, is a significant challenge for Norway. Either it comes from domestic discussions or it comes from European discussions, it is a clear Norwegian interest to maintain the unit in the internal market. We have a lot of close contact with our British friends as well. On Friday, British trade minister Liam Fox comes to Norway to meet both the Minister of Industry and myself. I also have regular telephone contact, and also in other ways, including. The Brexit Minister and others, and the Prime Minister was in Britain last week and met Theresa May. We are committed to identifying how we can cope with our close relationship with the United Kingdom in the best possible way. That means we have to make some adjustments. We're ready to do that, and we're very good at the work, among other things. through the government’s Brexit Task Force, which consists of almost all departments, working on everything from mapping agreements to outsourcing Norwegian positions. And it's important, because as long as we don't sit as part of the negotiations, which we can't do since we're not an EU member, we have to prepare for all possible outcomes through what the government is doing. Let me also stress here that we still have no guarantee that there will be a transitional period, that there will be an outsourcing agreement. We can still end up with a so-called hard brexit. However, our primary interest, as we have also communicated to both the EU and the United Kingdom, is to ensure that the UK and the EU agree on the conditions for their release, so that a transitional period can take effect from 29 March next year and last for two years, where the UK continues as if they were EEA/EU members. That would clearly be in Norwegian interest, and that is a position that we are also working for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3200	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3212	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3221	A total of 20 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Ove Trellevik on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, by Eirik Sivertsen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Eirik Sivertsen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposed no. 4-8, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party proposed no. 10-19, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 20, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 10-18, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new municipal property tax model based on the equity value of the property, with mandatory deductions and protection schemes such as deferred tax for ownership transfer.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government of the State budget for 2019 to strengthen the funding of the cultural schools and to propose how a maximum price regime can be implemented.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to increase the total revenue of the municipal sector by between 5.4 and 6 billion in the draft government budget for 2019. SEK in addition to the government proposal in Prop. 88 S [[2017-2018]] Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide different models to increase its co-financing of the scheme with particularly resource-intensive services and to extend the scheme to citizens over 67 years of age.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the income system so that growth and big city subsidies are financed as a purely contribution to the municipalities and not as a result of extracts from the framework.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government of the State budget in 2019 to increase subsidies for decentralised higher education both in the sector itself and through its own financial transfers to the county municipalities.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asking to ensure that electric goods cars and fuel cell cars are granted a longer exemption from the payment for bombs, ferries and parking than passenger cars.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government requests that the system of user-led personal assistance be transferred to the public interest, financed as an aid’. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a binding timetable for the extension of user-led personal assistance, at the latest in the context of the 2019 government budget.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3306	Proposal No. 19 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a regulatory support for the right to user-driven personal assistance.’ The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3323	Proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the income of the local government in the range of 3 to 4 billion. SEK in addition to the government proposal in the Municipal Proposition 2019. Within an increased framework, funds shall be allocated to a maintenance programme for the county roads.» The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3340	Proposal No. 6, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the income system of the county municipalities to be reviewed and come back with proposals to ensure that compensation for long distances and low population density is increased.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3357	Proposal No. 4, 5, 7 and 8 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the removal of a new structural criterion and for the allocation of the income framework between municipalities for 2019, equal basic grants to all municipalities at 2016 level and small municipal grants to all municipalities with less than 3 200 inhabitants.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an investigation to be carried out to analyse the consequences of a fragmentation of a region as compact as Hadeland is today. The investigation must provide answers to the consequences of fragmentation in several states for important social structures and for future interaction in the region of Hadeland.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals on how the State can contribute to ensuring that the offer in secondary schools in districts experiencing high student dropouts is not weakened in such a way that there is really no freedom of choice and that more students have to move on from VK1.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that no one under 50 years of age is allowed to live in a nursing home against his will.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3392	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government in the government budget for 2019 to increase the income of the municipal sector by between 3 and 4 billion. SEK in addition to the government proposal in the Municipal Proposition 2019.» Red is in favour of the proposal. The Central Party and the Socialist Left have already received subsidiary support.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3411	Proposal No. 2, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a new and major trial of 16-year-olds’ voting rights and to include the largest cities in the pilot scheme.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3428	Proposal No. 20, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to suspend its planned changes to the water management/regulation so that this can be seen in the context of a joint action on tasks for the new county municipalities.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3533	Only VI-VIII, XI-XIII, XV and XVI will be voted on. Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party have warned that they are fighting back.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3547	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to set up a wide-ranging public sample to review the income system of the municipalities.» The working party has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3564	It's going to be over V and X. Right, the Progress Party and the Left have been notified that they are voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3578	It's getting wet over III and IV. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3592	It's getting wet over I.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3603	It's going to be gravitated over XIV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3613	It's getting wet over II and IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3756	It's going to be over VII. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3770	It's going to be over I-VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3914	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 4–6, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red Proposal No. 6 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks to investigate the incident in which Kamal Abdo Hobayjan and his son Abdo Kamal Abdo Hobayjan shall have been shot and killed by soldiers from the alleged Norwegian-Turkish group The revolutionary command army in 2017, while the Norwegian training mission took place.’ [[Mat]] The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3940	Proposal No. 4 and 5 from Red. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to publish what armed groups Norway has supported and trained in Syria and whether these groups had stated that they would fight against other than IS when the training mission was started.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to refrain from involving the Norwegian defence in training missions, advice or direct support to non-governmental armed groups, without first naming these groups and explaining their activities to the plenary Storting.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3964	Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to initiate an evaluation of Norway’s participation in Operation Inherent Resolution following the model evaluations on Norway’s military participation in Afghanistan and Libya.’ The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e3988	Alternatively, between the recommendation and the proposal No. 1 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to close immediately the Norwegian participation in Operation Inherent Resolution.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Council of State considers that the omission of relevant information by the State Council of Frank Bakke-Jensen in its statement to the Stortinget on 2 May is critical.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e4017	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red Proposal No. 2 and 3 from Red. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to work for Turkey and allied Islamic rebel groups to withdraw their military forces from Syria.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to contribute humanitarian aid, within the framework of unsolicited funds in the 2018 aid budget, to refugees from Afrin in their neighbourhoods.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e4057	Alternatively, between the recommendation and proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop all exports of arms and armaments to Turkey until the exemption laws are repealed and Turkey terminates its military operation in Syria.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-13.ana.ud10e4100	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
