ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e29	Honourable co-representatives! Tor Henriksen was first elected to Stortinget in 1973. He was then SF's candidate from Hammerfest and leader of Hammerfest SF. He did not just end up at the top of the list, but was elected to the Stortinget with a good margin through a breakup election for Socialist Electoral Union. Tor Henriksen stood on the party programme and made a great deal of work in the Swedish Maritime and Fisheries Committee after two years in the Social Committee. He also spoke together at an early stage. Tor Henriksen was born in 1933 in Gamvik, attended high school in Alta and trained as an engineer in Televerket. He had been a member of the local government for the SF, both in Berlevåg and in Hammerfest. Tor Henriksen was not concerned with possessing political office. He did not want a denomination in 1977, so another coastal representative took first place on the SV's list, but without being elected. Tor Henriksen maintained contact with his workplace at Televerket. He was the head of the technical staff in Hammerfest's telecommunications area when he was nominated and went back to the same position. He ended up as head of division at Televerket for North Norway. Tor Henriksen retained the party affiliation after the four years on Stortinget. He had local offices in Hammerfest Municipality, not least in the Main Committee on Environment and Development, and he was the leader of No to Nuclear Weapons. Tor Henriksen died peacefully in November 2017, 84 years old. We bring peace to Tor Henriksen's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e52	The called alternate of the Aust-Agder County, Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius, now takes the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Right-wing Group on sick leave for the representative Kristian Tonning Riise from 16 January until further notice by the Socialist Left Group on sick leave of the representative Mona Lill Fagerås from 16 January onwards and until further notice, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Hedmark County: Eli Wathne For the Nordic counties: Marius Meisfjord Jösevold
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e95	Eli Wathne and Marius Meisfjord Christ is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e106	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e111	I will, on behalf of Red, promote a proposal for power cables abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e117	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e122	On behalf of representatives Karin Andersen, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Gina Barstad, Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on the obligation to provide information to state councils and state secretaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e127	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e145	The proposal for the introduction of lobby registers for the Storting and the Government has been promoted a number of times earlier, in fact five times, in more or less the same form. In its position, like the previous presidencies who have discussed similar proposals, the Presidency has opposed the proposal, this time by a minority composed of the Left's representative in the Presidency. The majority of the presidency is largely in line with the arguments previously put forward against the introduction of a lobby register. I'm going to sum up the arguments we've highlighted, relatively briefly. First, however, there is reason to point out that the entire presidency believes transparency about the activities and decision-making processes of the Grand Duchy is important in order to build confidence between decision-makers and citizens. The Parliament of Norway shall be an open Parliament, where everyone can follow the procedure and get good and up-to-date information on the work of the Grand Duchy in an easily accessible way. A large part of the information that flows to the staging representatives on matters for consideration is public. This applies to both written and oral information. This information is available in public case documents and in written opinions which are publicly available and through the open hearings of the Committee or in the form of other public meeting activities. The entire presidency also shares the view that meetings between politicians and lobbyists are both legitimate and necessary and that the information coming from interest groups can help to inform the matter. It is a normal and necessary activity for representatives to receive information from individuals or from persons acting on behalf of stakeholder organisations. It is also good that there is attention to lobbying. The entire presidency is concerned that representatives should be conscious of ethical dilemmas that may result from contact with different interest groups. The majority of the presidency, after a complete assessment, has concluded that it will not recommend the Stortinget to adopt the proposal to introduce the lobby register. A lobby register will not necessarily lead to more transparency or transparency in the relationship between representatives and other social actors. On the contrary, it could complicate the access of representatives to information. It is an important principle that we should have confidence that each representative himself is able to assess the information received on an independent basis. Representatives should be able to receive confidential information and the person providing such information should be able to be anonymous. Furthermore, the obligation to register could easily be circumvented by moving meeting activities out of the Storting and into other venues. The question is whether this is something we want. It is also worth noting that a lobby register, as proposed, will also not capture advice provided by public relations agencies to the persons and organisations seeking out the wholesalers. In this way, the register will give the impression of providing an overview that does not fully reflect reality. It also belongs to the fact that a lobby register will need to be handled and that it will often be unclear whether a contact is to be registered. On the part of the proposal that concerns the government, I would say that it should itself consider whether a registration system is appropriate for its part. In Norway, we have administrative practices that take care of many of the considerations that a lobby register is supposed to have. It is an important point in this respect that the well-founded exemptions granted by the Public disclosure Act from the principle of disclosure could conflict with a registration system as proposed. It is clear that extensive lobbying can give economically strong and well-organised special interests greater impact than other important interests that do not possess such resources. Finally, it is precisely for this reason that a low threshold for contact between wholesale representatives and non-professional operators is important. It must not be such that only those registered in a lobby register shall have access to the representatives. It's no use to society or to representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e173	I would like to begin by saying that the fear of lobby records for which my colleagues in the presidency make themselves speakers seems strange. It is difficult to understand why it should be so difficult for us here in Norway, when they get it, for example. in Canada, in the EU and in the United States. It is also special to hear the representative who had the floor now, who also represents the Advance Party, who otherwise idealizes American politics in general. There you have the world's strongest and most comprehensive lobby, and there they manage to have full openness around this – without problems, without encounters being moved, without secrecy. They manage to have openness around this despite their extensive lobby. We should not be able to do the same here in Norway when both the United States and, for example, the United States. The European Union can do it. In fact, openness around lobbying contributes to a society that gives ordinary citizens a better understanding of power and who influence political decisions. What is the problem with the introduction of the lobby register? I can't see that the majority's argument in the vote gives a good answer to that. It is clear that it will require some resources to set up and follow up such a register. However, this applies to all good measures for greater transparency in the national Parliament and administration. The Public Health Act is, for example: certainly to the detriment of those who have to deal with requests for access. But does that mean that someone in this room thinks we should break that law? I doubt that very much. Another example is open committee hearings. There is reason to recall that the arguments against such hearings in their time were quite exactly the same as they are now being used to introduce the lobby register. There is also reason to recall that, as a general rule, the proposal for open committee hearings was promoted by the Left, together with proposals for the introduction of lobby registers, when it was first promoted 17 years ago. The representative proposal at the time led to the open consultation system that we all now enjoy, while the lobby register still has to be carried out here by representatives from the Left, as it is today. It should not be very difficult to introduce a lobby register in Stortinget. There is already a visit registry for all visitors to Stortinget. Openness around this visiting register as far as lobbying is concerned is unlikely to pose major challenges. There is also little reason to believe that meeting activities will be particularly moved out of the Storing for that reason. Of course, I agree that influencing policies through lobbying is legitimate and often contributes to better decisions. At least it can contribute to better decisions. But wanting the most transparency around such influence is also legitimate. That transparency will actually also contribute to better decision-making. It is a paradox that the communication industry itself is very much in favour of the creation of a lobby register. Why, then, do we have to stand in the way of greater transparency as big business representatives? I would like a more appropriate view on the possibility of creating a lobby register that is appropriate to our political culture and to the culture of Stortinget. Different ways have been found to regulate lobbying in different countries. Norway has not been given a copy of what is found in other countries. The proposal in this case is also intended to draw up proposals for registration schemes which are appropriate for the Storing and Government respectively. It will strengthen Norwegian democracy if there is increased transparency in lobbying towards the Stortinget and the government. It will provide increased transparency in the power of society. In addition, it will be good for the reputation of all of us who have our daily work here in Stortinget. With that, I address the suggestions I have made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e201	The representative has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e206	The debate on the creation of lobby registers begins to approach a tradition in this room. The proposal for a lobby register has been promoted repeatedly, and then to be voted down in the Stortinget. This despite the fact that all lots are concerned with highlighting the importance and importance of more transparency. One could therefore hope that the debate had now moved in the right direction, and that we could jointly come up with some proposals that all could live with. I think lobbying is good. I myself have been a lobbyist when I worked in the environment movement, and elected representatives must meet with arguments and be able to be influenced and convinced by them. It's an important part of the democratic conversation. SV holds even annual lobby courses for organisations that cannot normally afford to hire lobbyists. Therefore, the aim of increasing transparency on our part is not to combat lobbying, but it is about increasing transparency about it. Let me draw out two important arguments for that. First of all, in principle, there should be as much openness as possible about what is happening on the Stortinget. The fact that the public is given insight into who works to influence the elected representatives is a good thing. Secondly, this will provide valuable insight into the type of influence that gets the most in-depth attention from the populace. A lobby register can provide a systematic overview of the interests of the Norwegian society that make the most of the potential to influence policy-making. It's hardly anyone who's going to be very surprised today when they see what kind of organisations are talking to which politicians, but it'll still give us important knowledge about what's going on, and it'll probably also help demystify such contact meetings. The last thing I think is quite positive, when we see that too many people think it's more difficult than having contact with us at Stortinget. I notice that the majority of the presidency believes that such a lobby register will be labor-intensive to handle. I do not reject the fact that there may be extra work, but it is difficult to see that it will be much more extensive. It's not like today – as we all notice – that it's just to stroll into the Stortinget. When outsiders arrive at meetings, we have to report to the security department about who is coming, they have to go through security controls, and they have to be given a visit card. And myself I create calendar events and would like to invite others to join the meeting in the SV's storage group or in other parties, if that is the case. At the same time, I believe that the majority of the presidency points to some important issues. It is important that we ensure that representatives are able to receive confidential information and that the person providing such information remains anonymous. This must, of course, be done when such legislation is designed. The majority also argues that advice provided by public relations agencies to the persons and organisations seeking out the depositors will not be provided from such a register. That's right, of course. It will also be impossible to identify all forms of peer-to-peer conversations that are taking place, for example. at conferences or informally. But it is rather a bad argument against more transparency in one field that it will not mean more transparency in other fields. Nor is it that meetings at Stortinget happen in secret today. It happens quite often that people who come to visit me stop in the halls to greet others as they know. In 2014, Bård Vegar Solhjell made a statement when the same proposal that we are discussing here was discussed. He then pointed out that an important question in the future is going to be: ‘the question of open lists of customers, because there is a clear increase in the trend towards recruitment in the policy of the communications agency and other companies, where it is relevant that those holding positions must tell who they have worked for before, what they have recently committed to, received money, learned from, etc.’. This was current at the time, and I believe that it has recently been further updated when it was found that one of the government councils in the sitting has taken payment to influence her own party while she had a high level of trust there and met as being to the Stortinget. That very matter is basically worst for the party in question, in my opinion, but it is nevertheless absolutely crucial for the confidence of politicians that we can be sure that these kinds of bonds and combinations of roles do not occur. We all need to turn every stone to ensure increased transparency and more information on how to influence it. For this reason, we have also made proposals in EN today on information obligations for state councils and state secretaries, and it is a more comprehensive proposal for a change of law to ensure this obligation to provide information on both contracting entities and the content of the mission, which has recently been updated. I therefore hope it is possible to form a majority for that proposal, which is more comprehensive and more comprehensive than the solution proposed for this matter. That there is disagreement in this room about a matter is obviously nothing new, but unfortunately there seems to be little interest in the majority to come up with arrangements that make us more transparent about the impact that is taking place. If the majority of the Presidency believes that the proposals available here are problematic, alternative proposals should have been submitted rather than rejected in their entirety. How does the majority want us to increase the transparency of lobbying? Can we interpret the lack of proposals as being satisfied with today's situation by the majority? Four years ago, SV called for the presidency to take responsibility for including those parties that are not represented in the presidency in important matters like this. The Presidency has called on several occasions to meet with the parliamentary leaders to discuss various issues, such as allowances for the guttering representatives and the timing of the guttering meetings. The issue of lobby registers should also be regarded as an important enough case for the presidency to take such a round with the other parliamentary leaders – not least in the light of the regular return of this debate. So even though the conclusion of the presidency might not have changed, we could jointly initiate a process to ensure the openness that I think we can all agree that we are in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e237	Today, the Stortinget will consider a proposal from the Left to establish a lobby register for the Storinget and the Government. The large, established parties oppose the lobby register – i.e. the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Center Party. Only the Left supports its own proposal in the presidential vote. It surprises us in Red that all the major parties are opposed to a lobby register in the presidential position. It is precisely the large, established parties that should take the concerns of confidence in politicians and the political institutions seriously. In many other countries, it is precisely these parties that are hit hardest by increasing political disdain, and it is enough of fresh examples that, in our view, show the need for more transparency in politics. The transitions between politics and the lobbying industry, the turnaround between politics and the lobby, are a new trend among top politicians in Norway. One day they're the leaders of the people, the next day they're the servants of the money force, and democracy is left with the blacks. This shift is clear from a historical perspective. In the post-war period, there was a minority of politicians who went to a different profession from what they originally came from when they left the policy, and for those who changed their pasturage, the tendency was that they moved to leadership positions in the public sector. The political elite of the day changed slightly into its political capital in executive positions in business or in the public relations sector. Today's politicians are of another caliber. The vast majority of those who are now leaving the political elite are getting high in society, and many are also becoming lobbyists for strong interests. So you can ask yourself, is this really a problem? Rune Gerhardsen said the following when he announced that he would work in the influence industry. ‘I’m not going to sell networks, I’m going to sell knowledge about political processes. It is in the textbooks of State Science; it is available to all.» In the same interview he also said: ‘I would like to guess that there will be stakeholders from both the organisation and the private sector when it becomes known what I can offer in general government contact and knowledge of how to approach different decision-makers.’ One of these statements can't be right if the other is – and vice versa. It is not easy to be a salesman and at the same time talk down on what you sell. The increasing flow of personnel from policy to business can, in the longer term, undermine the confidence-based power of politicians. One thing is that people make their careers in politics, another thing is that more and more people use politics as a springboard for attractive jobs high up in the commercial sector. They sell their political capital to the highest bidder, and several end up in positions where they promote interests other than those they previously did in their elected positions. It must be allowed to change its position, but the transitions reinforce the suspicion that the actor has also had his own profit for his work, perhaps also as a politician. General voting, magnification, municipal government, county counciling – all of this is intended to balance the influence of monetary power on society. The power of the ballot shall be a heavy counterweight to the power of the banknote, but the administration of the people shall be weakened when the leaders of the People's Government are sold to the highest bidder. In addition to voting in favour of the proposals from the Left, we are promoting a loose supplementary proposal with the intention of identifying the former contracting entities of the Councils and State Secretarys, where they have worked to promote political or commercial interests. The wording is almost identical to the proposal supported in the previous period by the Central Party, SV, Left and Workers' Party. Today, if these parties vote as they did in the treatment of the previous ageing period, there will be a majority on the Stortinget today to ask the government to draw up such a type of registration scheme. I hope this can get a majority in the Storting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e262	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e267	The centre party thinks it should be open in Norwegian administration. The Centre Party has clarified multiple times. The party was given the public promise, and we are the first party to open our national meeting to all the press. So why do we disagree with the proposal for a lobby register? Now the case spokesman has done some good for some aspects of the case here, but the biggest challenge with such a register is that professionals always find solutions to this. The ones who may have thought this is the most demanding are the random ones who want to visit us and meet us. They're the ones that don't have a big organization around them, but they have things that they burn for, and they want to record. Professionals always manage to find solutions to get that contact without it being registered, when they feel they need it. We need to be confident that representatives will be able to visit here and know how to handle information. It is also important for me that people should be able to contact and do so without being visible. It's not those who come to the Storing to meet with us, which is the big challenge. It is rather that communication has been professionalised. Municipalities and county councils are increasingly helped to promote their embassy, either from their own communications departments or from hired help. Organisations build large communication departments to find new ways to do this. I actually think this can become a register that will be a sleep cushion for us, without us being able to get to the big challenges. We in the Group of the European People's Party will vote for Mr Raudt's proposal, proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox That is a good proposal, which we will support.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e280	The representative Wold spoke of the Left having proposed this for the fifth time. That is probably true, but there is a slightly new situation that has arisen in political Norway since the decision to introduce a lobby register was made in Trondheim City Council. There is a special background for its adoption in Trondheim – it is clear – and the Left has probably also previously proposed it in Trondheim City Council, without having been a majority for it, but this time a majority was obtained together with the Workers' Party, SV, the Environmental Party of the Greens and Reds. The background for this is that you had a suspicion that you had affected, without having it verified. And that's the big question here: Do those who are interested in a matter know who the different representatives have spoken to, in terms of influence? The left is also very much in order for us to continue to have an open door and openness with a view to letting us be informed and given that someone is trying to influence the politicians. It does – but we also need to be open about who we have let be informed about, what the situation around it was, and what information we have had access to. I hear that there are several representatives in this debate who point out major weaknesses in the fact that we may introduce a lobby register only in the Stortinget, but we have to start somewhere, and we believe that the easiest and most practicable thing to do is to register who you get a visit to the Stortinget. I think we need to get openness around all the representatives if a newspaper or another medium asks how to get information on a matter, and be open around it, whether it's in the Storting or in the community outside. It is absolutely fundamental for us to show that there is openness in all contexts when we politicians take a stand on matters. I had hoped that this time the Workers' Party had learned a little from Trondheim, where there was a very clear need to start with a lobby register to reveal these problem areas when there are doubts about who has spoken to who. I had also hoped that more parties would now be involved in influencing the city councils other than those in Trondheim, but it might well have to go the other way, by building policies from below and up, and by the fact that there are more local authorities around that decide to set up a lobby register. The left will work for it in the different local government and county councils, and this is probably not the last time we're going to propose the lobby register. We believe that this is at least one way of maintaining and continuing the openness that is incredibly important for democracy to have confidence in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e295	I agree with many of the objections raised against the proposal on the lobby register. It's clear this is a difficult thing, and it has to be handled in a reasonable way, but I'm sure the total brain trust in this house can handle it too. The size must accumulate around a lobby register and resolve the practical aspects of voting a proposal like this instead of almost on autopilot. As a new representative, I have to say that some of the things that have overwhelmed me the most by entering this house, are the large number of lobbyists that flow over us daily. At this moment, while I'm here talking, it's a representative of an organization – an organization with small funds, properly – waiting for me in the big food restaurant. The number of information advisers now exceeds the number of journalists in this country. It did so a long time ago, and career opportunities are considerably better for information advisors than they are for journalists. In other words, career opportunities for influence have increased in recent years, and the Storting must take it inward. It is not new that you sometimes introduce rules you cannot attach with a fixed point. The principle of more publicity is such an example, where one has to consider things from time to time. There are no fixed rules, but there are indications as to what it should be possible to lobby for and not to lobby for. When the representative from the Central Party says that it is so difficult to cheat, and that there should be an argument that a lobby register should not be set up, it is in my view a strange logic that lies behind it. I notice that the Presidency's emphasis is on an overall assessment. In the environment I come from, it tends to be a sign that you have a bad argument to argue about. I think the Storting will now gather to give some important signals on this very important topic that will certainly ride us for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e308	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e320	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e329	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Abid Q. Raja proposal No 3, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a register in which the members of the Government and the State Secretaries register their former contracting entities where they have worked to promote political or commercial interests. The obligation of registration is restricted to contracting entities during the last two years before accession and shall give rise to the obligation of professional secrecy.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e357	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from Abid Q. Raja. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a registration system for those seeking political direction in the departments or in the Prime Minister’s office on behalf of themselves or others in order to influence the government in matters for consideration.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e376	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from Abid Q. Raja. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Size Requests the Presidentship of the Storting to prepare proposals for a registration scheme for those who seek out the Storting on behalf of themselves or others to influence the Storting on matters pending its consideration.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e402	The Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-16.ana.ud84e452	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
