ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e20	The representative, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. From the meeting alternate representative of Akershus County, Sheida Sangtarash, there is an application for an exemption from the meeting under the permission of the representative Nicholas Wilkinson from 4 October until further notice due to disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternate shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: for Akershus County: Torleif Hamre
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e48	Torleif Hamre is present and will take the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from Mr Lise Christoffersen on leave from 8 October to 12 October, from Mr Espen Barth Eide on leave from 9 October to 12 October and from Mr Emilie Enger Mehl on leave from 9 October to 11 October – all to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg by the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Jon Gunnes, Stein Erik Lauvås, Arne Nävra and Ove Trellevik on leave from 9 October to 31 October, all to attend the 73rd General Assembly of the United Nations, second part, in New York. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1. the applications are processed immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Province of Buskerud: Anne Sandum 8.-11. ==References====External links== October For Hedmark County: Per Martin Sandtrøen 9.-11. October For Hordaland County: Sigurd Hille 9-25. October For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai 9.-11. October For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bjørn Arild Gram 9–25. October For South-Trundellag County: Tove Eivindsen 9–25. October For Eastfold County: Siv Henriette Jacobsen 9–25. October
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e117	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e122	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Karin Andersen, Lars Haltbrecken, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on sustainable freight and more goods on the road. Furthermore, on behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Solfrid Lerbreck, Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I am delighted to present a representative proposal to investigate ferries as an independent alternative along the new and repaired E39. Finally, on behalf of representatives Karin Andersen, Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a pilot project with hydrogen-driven trains in Norway. – It was a greeting to Jon Gunnes, among other things! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e133	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e151	Before the debate starts today, the President will refer to the adopted debate from yesterday. The big deal is now continuing, where the first speaker is Prime Minister Erna Solberg. A reply to the Prime Minister’s observations is limited to 13 lines. The President will propose that the 13 lines be arranged as follows: The Labour Party five lines, the Central Party three lines, the Socialist Left Party two lines, the Christian People's Party one line, the Green Party one line and the Red one line. Furthermore, the President will state that those who sign up today will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e162	A few weeks ago, Norway was again designated by the United Nations as the world’s best country to live in. We've become so used to this that we almost take it for granted. The most joyful thing this time was therefore perhaps the advances in other parts of the world. In just eight years, the number of countries in the lowest development category has fallen from 49 to 38. Norway had not retained its first place for many years if we had not been able to develop. In recent years we have seen a happy development in a number of areas. The pay gap between women and men is falling, more women work full time, we've got more female leaders. In 2017, we had the lowest number of people killed in traffic since 1947. In many other countries the decline in fatal accidents has stagnated. Our working life has also become safer. The number of fatal accidents has fallen between 2000 and 2017. The high levels of absenteeism in high school have been reduced. The proportion of those completing secondary education is increasing. The number of young people who are not in education, job or training is lower than when this government took over. The fall in the proportion of men employed between 25 and 54 years of age has long been a concern. In the last year, the proportion has increased, for the first time in a long time, and is now approaching levels for 2013. Investments in industry focus on industry, mining and power supplies in particular. R & D activity in industry has increased since 2013. It points forward towards good and safe jobs with high value creation. Greenhouse gas emissions are falling. The provisional figures for 2017 point to the lowest level of emissions since 1995. In recent years, Norwegian society has become safer, more equal and fairer, more environmentally friendly and provides greater opportunities for our young people. I'm glad of this. Yes, I'm actually proud of this. It's a lot to enjoy, especially for those who will describe, and not caricers, the Norwegian community. Positive developments in recent years are a misguided development. And although politics does not have the credit for everything, evolution is also a result of politics – a policy that the non-socialist majority in this Chamber has been behind since 2013. It is not only in the material field that Norwegian society is doing well. Around us we see increasing polarization and conflict, not only between countries, but also in countries that we have seen as fundamental liberal democracies. In Norway, on the other hand, we have succeeded in maintaining a society of high trust. In many European countries, the refugee crisis has been the source of increasing contradictions. In Norway, studies show stable or increasing acceptance and tolerance of immigrants. Norway would not have kept the place at the top of the UNDP ranking if we had leaned back and been satisfied. We've achieved so much just because we haven't done it. That's why the parties behind the Jeløya platform have picked out six challenges for Norwegian society, which we need new offensive policies to meet. These challenges concern the transition in business, the fulfilment of Norway’s climate commitments, inclusive working life, good welfare arrangements, poverty reduction and integration. The challenges span areas where we see positive developments, but where we need to be even better, but also areas where development is disturbing us. Poverty and differences in society are an example of the latter. Increased differences are a global trend. The researchers tell us that the increase is smaller in Norway than in other countries and that it starts from a lower level. Nevertheless, progress requires that we step up political efforts. A particular challenge is that children who have migrated to Norway grow up in low-income families. Many immigrants, and especially their children, are very successful in their class journey in our society. However, years of high immigration have led to the constant arrival of new people, who lack language and competence to succeed in our working life. The most important thing we do for these and other low-income families is bet on the line of work. Therefore, the government should implement an integration promise in order to achieve day-to-day integration, combat negative social control and speed up mainstream education and employment. At the same time, we should work on what has always been a germ for people to stand out from work and live for a long time in poor families – sickness, intoxication, poor mental health. We've had a strong commitment to the russian community. We're going to keep having it, just to bring more people into our normal working life, and that fewer children experience living in a poor family for a long time. In the future, there have been more and more differences from technological developments. That is why it is so important that we meet the new challenges. We are going to implement a skills reform, so that no one goes out to date, with more flexible continuing training offers, increased digital competence, an industry programme aimed at vulnerable industries and giving more opportunities to take professional letters, because professional letters are an important gateway to remaining in the labour market. We are going to implement an inclusion mechanism to use the good times we have now to include more people who have been outside, to require government employers to hire people with holes in the CV or with disabilities, to facilitate employers who take the chance of someone who has been outside, to strengthen Nav's market work, so that they can assist employers who would otherwise call a foreign agency. In the previous period, the Norwegian society was unable to secure the inclusion job. Most of the new jobs went to Immigrants. So we have to do this better this time if we want to have a powerful bet against increasing differences. It is one of the main objectives of my government this period, and it requires all sectors of society to contribute. We want a society where there's room for everyone. Increasing inclusion in working life also contributes to addressing the challenges we face with sustainability. The perspective message points to the fact that we have committed ourselves to a welfare society that our children do not have the backs to bear. It is serious, and it is unsolvable to future generations. A sustainable welfare society is therefore an overall objective. Increased competitiveness for Norwegian enterprises will then become absolutely necessary. Increased competitiveness requires political action. We need to increase investment in the way, strengthen innovation, research and development, raise professional and competence policies, develop a tax system that promotes growth, investment and value creation. Why is this so important for sustainability? Well, because the value creation in the private sector is the bottom line in the welfare community. Businesses need to create the jobs we need to increase employment. Increasing participation in the labour market reduces poverty and inequality while strengthening sustainability. Increased labour participation is going to be absolutely necessary, but will probably not be enough. We also need to prepare for demographic changes to require more and more of the growth in the budget, and that new efforts often have to be made to make our systems work better and more efficiently, rather than increasing appropriations for all good purposes. Reduced fertility in the population reinforces the problems of perspective reporting. It makes the welfare society even heavier to bear for those who come after us. The government will therefore look at what opportunities we have to stimulate more people to have more children. Most children in Norway have a fantastic growth rate. If we look back in time, and if we look beyond the world, most kids are lucky enough to grow up here and grow up now. But unfortunately there are exceptions. That's why we're going to do more to ensure even more children the world's best growth and a good start to school. We're going to have more teachers, better educated teachers, more early efforts for students who are going to be hanging after, and a growth free from bullying. We're going to step up our efforts against bullying and follow closely the new law on duty of activity in schools against bullying. We're going to have a growth free of violence and abuse. We need better treatment of people convicted of assault. We need to increase our competence to detect abuse. Children who have difficulty will get better help. We must continue to strengthen our efforts for mental health. Lifelong learning is going into school. Children shall have equal opportunities. We're going to do even more to make children with a minority background or from low-income families go to kindergarten or SFO. We need to improve housing for the large families and give more opportunities to participate in leisure activities. A good childhood lasts life, it's called. The government will prioritise and ensure the best possible childhood for all, regardless of background. I want to finish where I started, with the UN report on the development index and the joy of a few years of positive development in several of the world's poorest countries. Since January 2016, I have been delighted to lead the driving force force force group for the global work on behalf of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The work provides insight into the enormous challenges facing the world: war and conflict, countries that have major environmental challenges, countries that fear that the next hurricane will destroy the entire settlement, and that climate change will make the country disappear, but also those who are concerned that they lack jobs for the many young people, who will directly affect our societies by their young people looking for where to get jobs and move around the world. One can easily imagine that challenges are so great that efforts are useless. Indeed, news about developing countries is often related to disasters, wars and conflicts. On my journeys, however, it is easy to see that the dry figures in the United Nations Development Index mean a lot to many people's lives, especially for young girls. An important priority for my government has been the education of girls. It was a sub-prioritized theme for many years before the non-socialist parties promised to give priority to this in the cooperation agreement in 2013. We've kept that promise. In many societies, as it has been in our own, the education of girls is key to solving more difficult questions, both economic and social. Health gets better when girls get educated. Children get better growth when their mothers know what's important, and not least the community gets more cyclical effects because girls get education than it does when boys get it, because they're there and have a primary responsibility. In addition to these effects, this is also a question of justice and not least sustainability for the future. Sustainability is constantly coming back, whether we're talking about a sustainable welfare society or the UN's Sustainable Development Goals or what kind of society we're going to deliver to our children, where we're going to live a good life without going to the detriment of future generations or other parts of the world. We're not there yet, either in Norway or globally, but we're on our way. We're on the right track, but we have to speed up, see the dangers on the road and do as the government does: have a clear recipe to meet the biggest challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e213	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e218	I want to say I think the Prime Minister made a good point. What it's all about here is going after what needs to be corrected. One of the ways we use here in the Storing to do that is to make a deal. We're opposition party to the government, we're not a budget partner, but we're making settlements in important areas. That is what an opposition should do. One of the areas where we've done that is the police area. We agreed to the police reform, an extension of work we started today. There we were particularly concerned about drawing the municipalities and improving the management and culture of the police. The municipalities, the densest of them, need to be heard. Now we're gonna get upset around the country. Eleven out of 12 police districts say that the police are not present where they should, the aid lawyers talk about cases of gross acts of violence. The attorney general says that this situation cannot continue. The government says that it improves the ability to deal with crime and ‘protect the victims’. I want to hear the Prime Minister's thoughts around: Protect the victims, what we are now hearing from the alarming news from the police out in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e229	We are in the middle of the police reform. We're done with the organizational changes. People are getting involved in the different jobs. It is clear that there is concern in the midst of a reform. The reform will last until 2020. This is a reform that many have seen only as a reform of point 2 of a structure. For me, it is absolutely essential in this reform that it is a quality reform. There is a quality reform of the way the police work. It is a quality reform by having stronger units that can function better in many of the gross and new forms of crime. In the middle of this, there are also many very good results. Response time goes down, you get out faster. People's perception that the police are more present is stronger than before. So it's not that it's the whole negative of what the opposition has of what it's like. But then there are also bottlenecks and challenges. One of them is that during a transition period, it has been difficult to deal with a number of cases. It's now working, and the bunkers are going down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e238	It is not the concern of the opposition I am concerned about, it is the concern of people, the concern of the police, the concern of the aid lawyers. We met someone who was worried – the Prime Minister and I – when we were in Seljord recently. The rapporteur there, Halfdan Haugan, an intelligent man, warns that things are not being followed up now, and that there are no people to be out doing the problems. The police officer in the South-East police district does not know how to interpret Stortinget’s decision – nor does the Minister of Justice know it. He stood here in the Storting yesterday and was in doubt about the decision to which it was intended, when it was referred to the decision – following a proposal presented here in 2017 – where the government asks for a ‘real strengthening of the officers’ offices that remain after the implementation of the police reform’. Then we have to ask, we're in the middle, but the structure is clear. So people aren't there to be able to move out and do the key tasks. The Prime Minister has had five Ministers of Justice on the job during the period, and the sitting person is in doubt about how this should be done. What does she want to do to meet and solve the problems that are now, and which are reported in eleven of the twelve districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e247	My advantage is that I basically heard the whole debate yesterday. I also heard the change of lines between the Labour Party representative and the Minister of Justice – it is currently not correctly reproduced by the head of the Labour Party. He said apart from the one decision: When the Labour Party’s representative yesterday stated that we had not followed up any more decisions, there was one specific decision, and he said that, pointing out in the change of line. I want to say that people say in surveys that they see more police. People are more satisfied, they have more confidence in the police. So it's not like the representative Jonas Gahr Støre now says is representative of what the statistics show. But we're not satisfied with where we stand. That was also expressed by the Minister of Justice. That is why it is quite clear and clear from us to the police that now they have to build up the remains, now they have to look at what is really positive, that there are more people reporting serious crimes. There are many darknesses that are now coming up with the review. This means that resources need to be redispatched in order to address them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e256	When I said that the Prime Minister made a good contribution, it was because she describes goals I think we can all agree on. But the policy must be to go into places where we do not carry out the tasks to be done by the community, where uncertainty grows, and that goes beyond confidence. Now, when we get reports that serious acts of violence remain so long that they simply cannot be dealt with – the courts do not get them away, we have a justice sector that has been treated quite poorly in these years – that is where we want to hear the Prime Minister reflect, not everything that goes well, we can read about. That is why, once again, I believe that the Prime Minister must answer precisely: what action must be taken to ensure that these queues are taken away, that there are people in the remaining Länsmann offices? After all, we are told that Länsmann's offices are now staffed with people who are going to do administrative work and not really police work. What action does the Prime Minister have to take to alert the budget or elsewhere to meet this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e261	As the representative Jonas Gahr Støre knows, the budget comes when the budget comes, and then you get plenty of time to digest it. But I disagree with the premise that we're just going to discuss what's wrong with Norwegian society. I think we should spend time giving credit for what's good, to all the people who're on, to the police who are now reporting back that they're doing a better job because they're allowed to investigate on the spot. We see that the response time actually goes down – this is the first time we measure response time. The police are coming out faster, especially in those areas that are scattered in Norway, than they did in the past. We measure it because we follow up, and then we take care that we dispose of the resources. Then they've been told that they have to work more to bring down the old remains. In the transition that has taken place, there have been too many bunkers attached to this. Then they have to redispatch resources to the new issues, which are now growing considerably more, perhaps because we have finally taken a hole in that crowd that assaults are not reported. When they increase a lot, it means that there are more people reporting – very good. Then we can do more for the victims and protect more.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e270	This is what we need to talk about – not the long lists of everything that goes well. We need to solve problems, not just talk about other states. Another theme that affects people's everyday lives, retirement: in the pension agreement, we have ensured that the population's wealth now gives us earnings from the first crown. In the public sector, public service pension also applies, and many in the private sector also receive a pension from the first crown. But a million Norwegians don't have this access. I met one of them, Christel Eilertsen, a 27-year-old girl, at Obs in the lagoon shopping mall outside Bergen. She had worked there for four years, had 60 pst. The position, and she got really shocked when she heard that this was a right she did not have. Now it's about sealing this one hole that's left in a pension reform that we're all together about, another settlement it's worth protecting about. This woman said to me, "I don't think it's fair for me to work here, but I don't have it with a million Northmen." Does the Prime Minister agree that this is unfair, quite concrete?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e278	Let me first answer the question that we're just going to talk about what's wrong in Norwegian society. Well, my management is a little bit different. My leadership gives honor to all the people who are on it. My management is also telling it when they take a lot of power and the response time gets better, when police investigators do better early. In fact, as leaders of this country, I think we should also pay homage. Of course, we're going to be busy filling the gaps that are missing, and we're going to focus on that. But if people don't get positive feedback on what's going well, it's going less well in all the other areas as well. This is at least my management style. I understand that the representative Jonas Gahr Støre has a different management style than that. So to the question of pension from the first heads. There are many things you might want to do that you sometimes have to weigh against how much costs you have to transfer to the Norwegian business community. The changes we have made in the occupational pension have been initiated by the parties all along. When we introduced compulsory occupational pension, it was a wish from both parties. Now there's one party that wants this. There will be a higher cost for labour-intensive enterprises. You also have to bring that in the bowl when you weigh it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e285	My management style is about looking at what Norway needs to maintain high trust — the qualities we agree on. What do we need to correct as politicians? What do we need to involve people in – community, social partners – to keep this quality in Norway, that we have justice and little differences? If we become self-gratifying politicians who stand and tell in rosy terms about everything that's good, we don't solve that mission. It's a crazy management style. I ask the question again. We're looking at parts of the pension system, and the government has even looked at whether 12 months of earnings are right, so we're going into the policy. After wage negotiations, the head of the NHO last said that this public service pension is in Stortinget. Yes, now the matter lies in Stortinget, Audun Lysbakken and I have promoted the proposal. Will the Right Party join the discussions about a settlement that closes the last hole? We want to negotiate, we are pragmatic and we need to find good solutions. A million Northmen, along with Christel, don't have that right. This is my last question, perhaps the Prime Minister has a different solution to it, but I ask in the following way: Is it fair that the million – women, young people and those with part-time jobs – do not have the right that we others have? Is that fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e292	Since the representative Jonas Gahr Støre is so concerned about trust, he should be very pleased that the trust barometer to the police shows that they are getting more confidence, that we are actually getting more confidence also because we are more present. So measured by how reality is out – not necessarily in this house, but the reality out there – people's experience is that it's better. In the case of a pension from the first penny: if it had been so that this was somehow free of charge for the Norwegian society, it would have been easy to say yes. One thing is that all changes in the occupational pension that have been made – including the investigation that the representative Jonas Gahr Støre points out – have been initiated by the parties in common. What the Workers' Party is doing now is saying that one party should be allowed to have the review of what the parties are discussing in pay settlement, or what the State is asked to do, by having a decision here. However, the more we put pressure on the sector in Norway that now appears to be facing the greatest challenges, such as: trade in goods, labour-intensive jobs — the fewer these jobs will be. Shell 3-4 billion. kr is taken out of the bottom line of the enterprises, one must risk having fewer of these jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e299	The right went to the choice of the slogan ‘We believe in Norway’. I think it's a little amazing, really, because time after time it turns out that the Right doesn't listen to people around in Norway. The slogan should have been ‘Right will believe in parts of Norway’. For the Right does not believe in people in Finnmark when 87 pst. by the people of Finnmark in a referendum say no to coercion and yes to Finnmark. The right does not believe in the people elected in Hedmark, in Oppland, in Telemark, in Eastfold, in Akershus, in Buskerud – or in 70 p.m. by the population of the Sogn and fjords, when they say they want to further develop as their own counties. Now it's coercion that's the answer. It's not listening that's the answer from Prime Minister Erna Solberg and Right. Does the Prime Minister honestly believe, when the local people's will is overrun in the counties, that this is a good way to divide Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e306	We believe so much in local democracy that we think we should transfer more power to it. We've wanted to make sure that we move more power down, because we believe in a society built from below and up. It is an ideological basis, in common between the parties in government, and the Christian People's Party, with which we have cooperated on the basis of this reform. This means that even though I initially believe that Norway could be more efficient at two levels of government, we have seen that transferring more power to the regions – when we first have regions – will make us both use the resources and give more power back to people locally. So it requires, for some of the problems we're now discussing, larger regions. I believe that we cannot introduce joint road administration, for example, without actually having fewer regions than today, and we cannot let the smallest region be the size target for which task to do. I do not think they can have a sensible and good role either, which I believe the regions can have, and for example. do much good in the development of a future policy of competence, if it is to be fragmented with the current state structure. Then I don't think we get good enough environments or good enough measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e313	It's strange to express faith in overruning the local people's will and forcing together counties that are much larger than the counties that will survive alone. So it's skin argumentation. Erna Solberg says she believes in Norway. As we read the census, it was a single long tribute to the situation around the police. Then it's interesting to talk to those who work in the police, for example. The leader of the Police Joint Association, Bolstad, who says right away that there is too little listening in today's leadership. The near-police reform as a concept can be declared dead. Eleven of the twelve leaders of the local police force, the Police Union, say that there are crisis-like conditions in the Norwegian police force, the police chief in the East Police District says that there have been greater challenges for the police now because one is going to carry out the near-police reform, and the member of the army in Aurskog-Høland today says that now we can risk having the police off the east of Glomma. That's the situation in the police. Why does Erna Solberg choose to salute the situation, when those who work there say that there are crisis-like conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e320	I have said that we are in the midst of a reform, and it is a challenge when we are in the midst of a reform, both because people have moved on, that there have been changes, that there is concern in an organisation when you do it – it happens with all the reforms and changes you make. But what I see is that we also have good numbers in many of the new areas, for example. in the form of an on-site investigation. We see that the response time goes down. It is not that there are no police officers east of Glomma, because the response time is so that they get faster now than they've done before. Then we've allocated a lot of resources to the police, just so we're going to have enough policemen to both do the new tasks and make sure that we get there. But I think it's false security if you think that the presence in a loner's office is what gives police power. What gives police power is when policemen come out to the place with a patrol that can help investigate, that makes memory and trial work better, and that cases can get to court faster. And we're on our way, even if we're not satisfied. There's a lot left, but that's 2020, which is the end point of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e327	What Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen have really believed in in the years they have run is that increased fees in Norway are a wise strategy. Yesterday there was a big mark in front of the Stortinget where workers in the Norwegian food industry expressed their concern about their jobs because of the huge fee shop last autumn. The current government has increased the fees by 6 600 million. NOK, almost SEK 4 million. kr every day, and the consequences include: the food workers who are now afraid of their job. The Norwegian food industry has stopped several investments in the last year; several enterprises have gone from a small surplus to a small deficit. Has Prime Minister Erna Solberg used the year to listen? And does she see that the kind of charging policy that the Right implemented last fall is directly anti-business and very unwise?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e332	We spend a lot of time listening. We listen to those who create new businesses, to those who have old businesses, and we're out listening a lot to the challenges of tax- and tax-pressed. And yes, there have been some charges that the government did not initiate, but that came into compromise in Stortinget. Last fall, almost all opposition parties in Stortinget aged their budgets by several billion in increased fees related to unhealthy food, what I call snop and good – that’s good, but it’s unhealthy and different – with slightly different methods, some with the chocolate and sugar fees, some by increasing VAT on exactly the same system. The effect would be the same. These companies had also received higher taxes with the remainder of the opposition policy in Stortinget. But if we're not going to use this, we have to find other ways – either we have to have total tax relief and tax relief in Norway, or we have to find other ways to cover this. I believe we should fight against unhealthy food, but I also believe that we should listen to business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e341	The welfare state is not difficult to carry, as it seemed in this post. It lifts us up, contributes to increased productivity and ensures better distribution. It is not least important at a time when the inequality of power and wealth is increasing. That is what the Prime Minister is talking about. I'm glad the government feels they have to talk about the differences, but there's a distance between rhetoric and politics. This government has implemented a number of unsocial cuts, which affect people who have little: cut in housing support, cut in disability, cut in retirement pensions, cut in transitional support for lone dependants, cut in free physical therapy for, among other things. people with developmental disabilities, cut in redundancy pay, to mention something. In the April Question Time, I asked the Prime Minister if she had examined the consequences of these cuts for those who were hit, and she confirmed that they had not done any such review. We are now promoting proposals to identify these consequences. Will the Prime Minister support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e348	It is absolutely right that we have made changes to welfare schemes. We have significantly increased some welfare schemes. Some of the first things we did were, for example, to provide the right to choose user-driven personal assistance, and we added significantly more money to the municipalities to implement it. We are not entirely satisfied with how the municipalities spend that money, and how good they are to follow up that decision. That's why we also see ways of strengthening it, but it's a big part. It was an area that the red-green government talked about for eight years, but never did anything about, because it cost money and never was priority. So these are some of the weakest users. We did it the same way with care money last year. We made suggestions that helped to get more care money, simply because there were large groups of parents who felt that the legislation we had at the time had been completely excluded. So we made some other changes. SV often chooses to accept the changes that have been made on one side, but does not include all the increases that have been made in other areas, and we have made significantly more increases. We have e.g. lowered by over NOK 600 for all chroniclers in need of physiotherapy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e356	I think that might be the basis for reminding the Prime Minister of how a Question Time works, since it's been a few months since the last time. It works in such a way that the representatives ask questions and the Prime Minister answers. It's not that the Prime Minister comes with his entire list of boasts and won't answer any questions. She got questions instead of whether it is not unfair that very many people do not get a pension from the first penny, and let alone answer. I now asked the question as to whether she is willing to support a review of the consequences of the cuts, which affect completely real people in real everyday life, and which Erna Solberg's government is behind – the children's supplement for disability, housing support, work relief. That was my question. My question was not whether Erna Solberg thinks that Erna Solberg has done a great job in government. I know she thinks so. What I'm asking is: Does Erna Solberg think it's unfair that many people don't get a pension for their work, while others get it? And is Erna Solberg willing to support the Stortinget's monitoring of the consequences of the cuts she's made?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e363	I want to make it clear that this is not a question time. This is a line change in the debate on the throne. [[Laughter]] So it's a political exchange of views that doesn't mean asking a question or answering a question. There is an exchange between the parties I represent as Prime Minister and the representative representing SV and the opposition. It's not that I have to answer all the questions that are asked outside of the questioning. This is a line change, so I think I'm dealing, also in sequences, with the claims that the representative makes in the debate, because it's manner and practice in the debate of the throne. I am about to meet the question mark, so the representative can then ask questions, when it is Question Time we have. So that's how we always evaluate the whole of action when we implement it, and we have an impact assessment of many. Some measures are so small and the changes are so small that one cannot go in detail and follow them up. We want to answer the different proposals through it. Our parliamentary leader will answer at the end of the debate on what we support, and what we do not support from these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e370	Several have already said that it was a good post. I fully agree with that, and I am pleased that the Prime Minister addressed me, among other things. the challenge we face with lower birth rates. The Prime Minister said that the government will stimulate more children. The birth rate was up to 1.98 in 2009. In 2017, it has fallen to record low 1.62. As I also said in the debate yesterday: I don't think this is just about money and arrangements, but yes, it helps to help the families of children to a day-to-day place where one gets more time. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed to strengthen child-responsiveness. We're going to improve the one-time payroll, and we're going to increase it. And we'll give free kindergarten from children no. 3 and up. That is good integration, and that is good family policy. Would the government consider these measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e377	Firstly, I agree that this is a more complicated topic. It's really a topic of our societal development. People may meet their peers — the one you want to have children with — at a slightly older age or are in a situation of life where you feel more mature to have children, with the obligations it entails, than before. I was 36 when I was first born, so I feel I know something about it. And I see that it has been the development of very many others. I believe that for those like you, for example. The study period has found what they want to have children with, we have to try to make it easier. After all, it is with long studies that you have to build a foundation in your working life before you have a child, which is often demanding. We are willing to look at different types of measures, and we have also reported that in the census is a focus area we have. But the state is not going to be good at finding the right spouse of people. People have to do it on their own. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e384	I'm also happy about the last one from the Prime Minister! I noticed in the speech that the Prime Minister repeats that she is busy including more in the working life, creating more jobs and creating a good upbringing for children. Children need parents who have time for them, even in difficult days. We know that stress is the new public disease. It is one of the main reasons — next to muscle and joint disorders — for sick leave. That's why I was surprised that the Prime Minister's party was so self-confident, and I want to say polemically rather forward-looking, refused at all to consider a reduction in working time, which could both give room to parents and not least create a more inclusive working life, where several parts of the job. This has been done several times before in history. In the last hundred years, we've reduced working hours by 20 hours, and we've had more vacations. Every time, the Right has been against the Right. The question is, what is it that separates this time the Right comes with scare pictures, from the previous times? They have done so when we have reduced working time, and they have made mistakes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e393	One of the major challenges we currently face is that we no longer have an exceptionally higher productivity trend in the Nordic countries to support welfare development, or changes in our efforts to work with other countries. We've funded a lot of the previous changes, which means that we've had more free and shorter working hours, through higher productivity developments. So we don't have that right now. One of our challenges in the future is that if we get it up, we can of course choose between leisure and work, but at the same time we will have fewer jobs, fewer who will fund the elderly in the future. There must be a significant increase in working time if you are to be able to carry working time reductions. In Norway, which is a high-cost country, people with high skills are required to share jobs in all areas. Some of our challenge of inclusion is a lack of competence, that not everyone will meet it. That's why I think the Green Party's recipe – which may be what they're honest about – means a significant decline in welfare. You can work less, but that means a huge decline in well-being and less pensions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e400	22 years ago, Højres Jan Petersen promoted proposals in the throne debate on a new power investigation. It was adopted. Now Red goes in for the same thing, but limited to the working life. To VG yesterday, Højres Heidi Nordby Lunde said that the background was ‘to prevent the concentration of power we saw at the time between the Labour Party and the LO in the world of work’. Further: ‘I can’t see that we’ve got new power concentrations that require new measures.’ The last investigation came before the enlargement of the EEA to the east. Now the Norwegian model is freely available in several industries. The level of organisation falls, while the use of consultants, franchises and rentals increases. Does Erna Solberg agree with us that there have been and are making changes that make it worthwhile to re-examine both the structures and the balance of power of the world of work, with a new investigation of the power of the world of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e412	The first power investigation we had in Norway provided the basis for much new social science research, knowledge and competences. For those of us who studied in the 1980s, there was a basis for very much of the professional development of Norwegian social education. We therefore had quite great hopes that through a new power investigation we would also contribute to it. But I remember what happened to the power investigation that we actually got through to. What happened was that there was a short debate in Stortinget. All of us who were members of the Bondevik government were really very disappointed that the investigation that had been made did not create more interest, attention or anything else – perhaps because you didn't feel it was groundbreaking enough, or anything else. I think there is a lot we should challenge and look at in relation to the issue of enlargement and changes in the labour market. I don't think a power investigation is the right perspective on this, not a research-based theoretical approach. But we're going to take care of all developments. One of the reasons why I am also engaged internationally in getting more joint work in Europe is that there are challenges in our labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e419	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e426	The left joined the government to create a greener and rustier Norway. We are in the middle of a digital shift and a green industrial revolution. We are loud enough to shout a great hurrah so that the Workers' Party now finally moves on climate and environmental issues after having been lying in the oil weapon for many years. Because it's not the Workers' Party that's gone in the brink to protect the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. It is not the Workers' Party that has taken a break for a climate law in Norway. It is not the Workers' Party that has made sure that we will establish a CO 2 fund in Norway. It is not the Workers' Party that has provided the world's most successful electric car betting. It is not the Workers' Party that has provided for the growth of the Enova toolbox, Innovation Norway and other instrument actors, which now contributes to Norway's clearly building most electrically powered vessels in the world. We have thrown both arms and given large funds for research into new technology, where SV and the red-greens put in a rest cutting. We are the world leader in green transport in Norway through battery, bio and hydrogen. We have set ourselves the goal of having fossil-free public transport by 2025, and in the Jeløya Declaration we raised the level of ambition of cut in the transport sector to 50 pst. It is not the Workers' Party that has granted the money for the pre-project on CO 2 capture and storage; this has happened with the Left who drives and with the Advance Party in government. As late as last year's throne debate, the leader of the Workers' Party, Jonas Gahr, did not mention the big, climate and environment once. This year, at least it came to the top ten, as a theme no. Eight. So it's still a way to go. In the blue-green Jeløya declaration, the green conversion is item No. 1, and the climate obligation is paragraph No. 2nd@item: inlistbox It's when it comes to ambitions and priorities, that the Workers' Party will continue to meet itself in the swing door. The representative Barth Eide claims to lead the way in an overall opposition, but where is it? SV and the Workers' Party have recycled 37 climate proposals from this spring in the representative proposal that was submitted yesterday. The central party is not in, and the Christian People's Party is not in. They mainly supported the pace plan and climate strategy of the government parties in spring. The Greens and Reds are also not in favour of the proposal. In yesterday's debate, I listened and noticed an article from SV's Solfrid Lerbeck, where she spoke about these Tesla people. No, because such a tax haven won't have an SV. No, well, and how are the climate goals to be achieved without us taking the game chips? Tesla has shown that electric cars, even sports cars, are possible. They've speeded up. In the case of palm oil, it is a fact that biofuels are part of the transition to zero emissions, and we need to produce biofuels in Norway and the Nordic countries. That's where we have to speed up. We have to get palm oil out of the tank, yes, but we have a great potential to bring more biofuels to the tank produced in Norwegian – domestic – resources, but also in cooperation with the Nordic countries. So here we lead in a big green transition that also speeds up industrial Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e449	We, who represent the right side of Norwegian policy, have once again been accused in this debate of working for a colder, more cynical society with greater differences. I can today bring the great revelation from the inner circles of the right-hand corridors, and to the great disappointment of many that this unfortunately does not vote. We don't give tax relief because we get up with a built-in eagerness to give the wealthiest of society even more, but because we believe that ordinary people should be able to keep more of their own hard-earned money, and that business owners and businesses should be able to reinvest, increase value creation and dry up to take more risk. We do not introduce more flexible rules in the workplace to reduce people's rights. We're doing it to make it easier for those who are out of work to get a foot within, and to reduce the risk for businesses that want to bet even more. And we haven't put in place projects with state-funded care for the elderly to increase bureaucracy or build up local democracy, but because we want everyone to have the right to the good health and care services they deserve, regardless of which municipality they live in. At the end of the day, we have to ask ourselves what really matters. What matters is not who offers a healthcare service, whether the home help is employed in a private company or in a public company, as long as the person receiving home help receives a good and predictable offer with which he/she is satisfied. What matters is not whether it is Statens vägvesen or the road company that builds a road, but Norwegian drivers and businesses get new, beautiful transport years as quickly as possible and at the most cost-effective price for taxpayers. And what matters is not how many loner offices we have that are open from noon. 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. 14 days a week, but we have a police force that is able to be present when something happens, no matter where in the country it may be, and that they have a professional environment to solve today's more complex crime challenges. I have great faith that both the government parties and the opposition – all of us sitting in this room, no matter who we represent – want a better Norway for our citizens. So what we have to think about is what kind of results we're able to deliver when we get the opportunity. And let's look at the results under this government: Employment has increased in the last year. 80,000 fewer people today are in health queues compared with five years ago. The reconciliation queue is almost removed – from 1200 to 150. And at the NRK, we could hear yesterday that several disabled people are using their residual labour force. The absence of high school has fallen by almost 40 pst. after the introduction of the absence limit. And the percentage of crime clearance has gone up. The Prime Minister also said that more people feel that the police are visible and present – and that is important. But perhaps the most important thing: Norway's masterland in football has climbed the FIFA ranking from 54th place to 53rd place under this government! What matters is the results. That's what we have to judge by.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e465	In the autumn, we will set a preliminary sentence for the regional reform. In a couple of weeks the government will come to the Stortinget with the mission message, and it is no secret that the Left and Christian People's Party has driven this forward. We have insisted because we believe that power closer to people will have a meaning, a significance for the development of local democracy, increased decentralisation and not least the authority of those who sit tight on matters where people live. The Left and Christian People's Party has drawn civil cooperation to the centre of Norwegian politics and to a decentralisation of power and authority. We look forward to the autumn debate in Stortinget on the mission message. We expect several parties to join in and pledge the great regional reform to which one is adding up. Over several years in politics, I have seen most of the political feuds and what one can allow in a liberal democracy, but I must admit that the political debate that we national politicians have been able to serve the people in this matter has sometimes surprised me. Instead of having a mature, good and not least informative debate on the matter, some parties have chosen volatile populism, as politicians who have been on select fishing in the mercies of a farm. That people are impressed by the changes that will bring about a reform, I have a lot of understanding, because changes lead to uncertainty. One knows what one has, one knows about it, but then one of course doesn't bit at the argument that might be a little bit more subtle, but is just opposite. I respect it. What I'm responding to, however, is that politicians with full pressure tell what an accident it would be with the government parties and the Christian People's Party's support to get through the regional reform – as if all reason and reasonableness have been perpetrated by those who sit with a majority in the national assembly. Some in the Chamber have done so: one political thriller takes over the other. This is exciting, but it requires us as politicians to meet the intensity of this autumn's city, with understanding. In a world where propriety and truth in politics are driven from opportunity to opportunity by various forces that do not seek the ideal, this hall could be the fan carrier for it. We have to act cautiously in some cases. In a heated and complicated debate, the simple solutions and the most rhetorical points emerge. There will be a lot of colorful talk about the regional reform in this room during the autumn. And in the eight years the red-green sat, they prepared for a regional reform; they saddled up the horses, but left the harness in the stable, and then this was left to the next man. Now it's in place, and we're going to conclude with the largest division of problems that has been since the 1970s. The fact that we believe in Norway – by giving strong local democracy, with real influence in its neighbourhood – has been a major driver for driving through regional reform. So I really hope that we might get a slightly different dynamic in the debate eventually.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e474	It is understandable when one sits in government and it goes well in some areas, that the Prime Minister and representatives of the Right, Left and the Progress Party need to point this out and boast about themselves in the debate on the throne. I understand that, but it's less understandable that when you point to what's not going so well in AS Norway, this dry rose painting of reality continues with even thicker brush strokes. Because when the opposition points to challenges of all day-to-day centralisation and problems of growth and development in the districts, there is no problem, according to the opposition. And when the examples of police challenges following the near-police reform are criticised, the Prime Minister and one after the other representative of the government parties stand here on the pulpit and say it's just black paint and wrong, and then they repeat the old slogans. It's a shame we obviously have such a different reality, such a different info we're leaning on. Is it going to be the best decisions for the rich when those who rule are as selective as I feel they are now, ignoring new counter-arguments and reports? It seems as if there has been a prestige in holding on to the old things that you believed in. I do not think that is wise, at least not when we carry out major and important reforms. I think it is quite clear that when the government parties, with the Prime Minister at the head, choose to hold to their old slogans about how good regional reform is for efficiency improvement, or about how modern police are now going to be involved in the development of the crime scene, it would be right – towards the people and for the formulation of their own policies – that the government parties were soon honest about the fact that regional reform automatically leads to centralisation to the new regional centres, and admitted that if we are going to invest heavily in new areas within the police but not to allocate enough money, we are going to go beyond old areas, such as patrol services and search in the districts. Here are some facts from my home state that hopefully can contribute more to the recognition of the government parties that I am calling for in these matters: a very recent West-Telemark police council actually revealed that there is now no police in that part of the county at night and night. There is no such thing, and the response time from the nearest wheel patrol can no longer be guaranteed by the police to be less than two hours. When I stood here exactly one year ago and framed everything that had been centralized from Vestfold to Telemark under the blue-blue, I did not dictate. And it's just getting worse -- and there's going to be more and more of them moving around in the coercion merger with Vestfold. I think it would have been appropriate not to deny that this happened, but I doubt it happens, because until now the government parties have not chosen to relate to the reality that we others experience. My claim is that they don't care that the police and everything else are centralized away. We in the Center Party will fight for all of Norway. The government parties do not, and neither do they care about checking new reports. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e487	A Christian Democratic Party as a Christian People's Party will always be concerned with highlighting the importance of building society from below. The Community is strengthened when individuals are shown confidence and responsibility and when civil society is recognised as an important player in the community. Norway is characterised by increasing diversity both culturally and religiously. It enriches and challenges the community. As Christian democrats, we will preserve diversity and protect the right to live, think and believe differently. Volunteering has helped build our country, and if we are to ensure a strong civil society in the future as well, we must facilitate children and young people to experience it as meaningful, and that this is something society wants them to engage in. A short time ago, we received signals that young people are experiencing limitations in their freedom of religion and organization. Several children’s and youth organisations received a no from their principal on the question of using the school’s premises for their collections. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased that we received broad support for Stortinget when we raised this matter. It is important that we, as politicians, facilitate the challenges facing children’s and youth organisations today. This will give civil society and youth organisations important recognition. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that students who want to show their faith in the school environment. The Convention on the Rights of the Child expresses very clearly the right of the child to freedom of thought, freedom of conscience and freedom of religion in Article 14(3). That's what it says. ‘The freedom to express their religion or belief may be subject only to the restrictions laid down by law necessary to protect public security, order, health or morality or the fundamental rights and freedoms of others.’ Faith is not something that belongs only to the home sphere or to the religious communities; it is an integral part of very many and a very important identity marker. For the Christian People's Party, a good society is a society that has room for the whole human being with the religious identity and the vision of life each person has. Such a society does not try to push religion out of public space but facilitates the ability of people to exercise their faith. The Christian People's Party will follow this case and ensure that the new practice ensures equal access to public premises for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e503	We have just heard the Prime Minister's comments. For the Right, social inequality is an important topic because Norway is a country with small differences and good welfare, and it creates good trust between people. In the right, we see this as fundamental values. We want a society of sustainable well-being, with a strong safety net for those who need it, when they need it most. Not least, we want a society with still small differences between people – precisely because it creates trust. According to the Brochmann II Committee, the main reason is that some people are poor in Norway today, the lack of work and participation in the labour market. Therefore, our greatest concern is also the 650 000 who are out of work for many different reasons. Immigrants are in a particularly difficult situation. Every other family with persistent low incomes is an immigrant family, and only half of all refugees are at work. The fact that more immigrants come to our country is increasing in the short term, among other things. of child poverty. At the same time, we have to remember that those who come here and get integrated into our society can get better opportunities and a better daily life here than where they came from. All children deserve a good upbringing. They deserve a good kindergarten and a school that provides opportunities completely independent of parents' finances. Our best investment for the future, the lasting path out of poverty, goes through education and participation in the labour market. That's why I'm glad that our prime minister keeps reminding us that in our society, it's not who are your parents, who are going to decide what opportunities you get. Children of low-income families must have the same opportunities to create their own future as others, it is necessary to prevent poverty from inheriting. I don't believe in exaggerations and black paint, I believe in concrete measures, I believe in sticking to measures that work over time, and I believe in priorities. Therefore, I am pleased with the initiative of the Right, Advance Party and Left Government, together with the Christian People's Party, on a proper inclusion and integration process, with all the tools put in here. Not least, I am pleased with the promise made by the government in the coming state budget, with more funds to ensure that children in low-income families grow up well. It's ballast for life and will make a big contribution to getting more out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e514	For five years we have had increased tax relief, while new taxes and the removal of welfare schemes have affected those who have least to travel with. The right-wing government is pursuing a policy that weakens trust and security and increases differences between people. I want to give some examples of how government ideology affects individuals I know. We have the cleaner in the defense who got the job privatised and thus lost his pension plan and the security of a permanent job. We have the traffic damage that has lost its housing support, lacks money for food and can no longer afford necessary physical therapy. We have our own cardboard that doesn't make it go together with increased babysitting and SFO spending and reduced commuting deductions. There are many more examples of petty and unsocial cuts. The Progress Party and the Right Policy are based on an ideology in which the rich are to be rewarded and the welfare services are limited or privatised, despite the fact that we know that small differences, security and trust contribute to more value creation. The OECD has analysed the link between inequality and economic growth and, not surprisingly, the conclusion is that increasing inequality contributes to lower economic growth and that lower economic growth leads to less prosperity. The Labour Party believes that a fairer distribution is essential. The main project is that more people should have opportunities to manage themselves. We want more community and greater trust. People have to be listened to and let go of their hand. The working party will spend the large amount of money on prevention, not on firefighting. The previous big session showed us that in several matters that matter to people, the majority of the Stortinges agree with the Workers' Party – against the government's proposals. It gives us hope for the future. Several older, fewer born, climate change and less oil revenues will challenge us much in the future. The working party believes that a greater part of the burden needs to be placed on those who can contribute the most. It requires political will and concessions; a property government at all has not managed to pattern in this inequality debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e527	Norwegian society can breathe out easily. The reason for that is almost two million barrels of oil being pumped up by the socket only today. Although there are some in this room who believe that we will live in the future on shorter working weeks, more bureaucrats and no oil production, the reality is quite different. This reality will also be noted by Stortinget when the state budget comes on Monday, because we have the opportunity to make increases for good purposes after the government budget is presented on Monday, one and only Norwegian pedestal. What's so amazing about the Norwegian base is that after the oil price fall, as the oil price halved twice, we have managed to convert and secure profits on Norway's main natural resource. There are probably a few other oil producing countries where the industry has completed such a conversion so quickly. The Johan Castberg field was supposed to cost $100 billion. kr and have a break-even of $80 barrel. This expansion will now cost 47 billion. kr and have a break-even of less than $35 barrel. The petroleum industry has succeeded in its conversion, and it is time we began to present this industry again. There are many who cheer with when we find oil and gas on a Norwegian base, but where do the same people become when we're going to use the same oil and gas? It is this industry alone that gives us predictability for the Norwegian welfare state in the future as well. The biggest environmental challenge we have today is probably the supply of garbage and plastic that ends up in our oceans. The Progress Party has called for Norway to use more of its aid to combat plastics in the sea. For Norway, such as coastal, port and maritime power, the sea is a major and crucial resource. The marine ditch that we are now seeing threatens all the nations bordering on the sea. This results in negative impacts for both fishing and business and contributes to the contamination of the world's food barrels. I visited Jakarta in September. There they produce 7000 tons of garbage every day, of which 2400 tons of plastic is dumped in the sea – 2400 tons every day! The government has stepped up its efforts using aid and set a total of 400 million. kr for the fight against marine litter. This is good, and it shows that Norway can make a difference. In the long term, however, the Progress Party and I hope that all growth in aid funds will be directed towards the fight against marine pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e540	Preparedness is a topic that was repeatedly mentioned in the census and in the subsequent debate yesterday, and is, of course, central to all the major structural reforms that the government is now working on. More money, more equipment, specialisation, digitisation and efficiency – these are the concepts that are being used, but centralisation is what is going to be the result. Overall, preparedness is at stake in all areas to be ready to take action when the exceptional – against assumption – occurs. It could be anything from a traffic accident to a natural disaster. This deals with all levels of our society. In order to ensure safety, it is essential that preparedness is anchored all the way down to the ultimate performing joint. The resources must be sufficient and tangible outside where they are needed. Decisions and implementation are required where normal procedures cannot be followed. A delegated and clear management structure is crucial. The government's overall position is that we can solve this by reorganising and creating larger units and centralising management and special functions – a model that largely counteracts what is required in many demanding situations. Why centralize management functions when all experience suggests that this field requires managers who are close to the very complex situations that arise? The centre party believes that centralisation and pulverisation of operational responsibility will lead to major differences in preparedness in that country and will eventually remove the responsibility that must remain as low as possible in the organisation at all times. This will create both a refusal of action and uncertainty. Why is it that part-time workers in municipal fire and rescue services are largely the first at the site of the accident and have to carry out much of the tasks intended for other departments? Those who have the least time to train and the lowest pay are those who meet first. Why do police and ambulances not have defined response time requirements in the same way as fire and rescue services in municipalities? I heard several conversations yesterday about the lack of data. That is not the case – it is a lack of will. There's nothing but a lack of will. Why has a large part of HV's civil objects been prioritised and it's mostly military objects to be secured? This happens at the same time as the police, who are responsible for civil objects, now implements perhaps the greatest centralisation reform in history and does not have the capacity to secure these objects. Me and the Center Party are concerned about this development. As rapporteur in a district municipality, I know where the shoe is printing, and we need a policy adapted to the landscape.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e557	The government says in the throne that more people have to be given the opportunity to support themselves and their families. Of course, we in the Labour Party fully agree with that. But it becomes a paradox that at the same time the government doesn't want people to be able to save on pensions from the first crown they serve, because this is an extremely unfair system, especially for us young people. Life here and now may be what most of us do young people -- dilemmas like eating pizza or taco a Friday night, how many days are left for the next scholarship payment, or how many hours are left for the next job watch. This can seem like trivial issues, and it says a lot about the society we've managed to create, about Norway in 2018. Nevertheless – is there one thing that does not affect us young people here and now, but is about the principle that good life should not be just for the few, it is just retirement. From Stavanger we have 27-year-old Kim Stian as a living example. He has worked mostly since he was 16 years old, a lot in hotels, for less than a year in the vicaria or in the project positions, and he has combined several small positions to make the economy go up. The result of this is that now at the age of 27, Kim Stian has only saved NOK 10 000 in occupational retirement. Kim Stian is just one of the many 100,000 Northmen out there who are facing this challenge. If we look at people in women-dominated professions and people with immigrant backgrounds, there will be an even bigger structural social problem that we have to address. For us in the Workers' Party, politics is about everyone having the security and freedom to shape their lives, and about strong communities ensuring that everyone not only has a good life here and now, but also in the future. This is even more important in the years that come, when we know that who you are, and where you come from, still determine more of what kind of life you have, and what kind of life you get. That's why the Workers' Party will fight to save everyone's pension from the first penny they earn. I hear Prime Minister Solberg only looks at the costs, but it's about justice, and it's about security. It's about giving everyone the opportunity to live a good life all their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e570	When we reduce the income tax, it's because we want most people to keep more of their own income and decide for themselves what to spend their money on. When we reduce corporate taxation, it's because we want companies to have more opportunities to invest in new technologies and machines and to reach new markets. When we facilitate research and innovation, it is because we want to encourage the improvement and development of existing and new products. When we remove taxes on machines, we take away one of the obstacles companies have to renew themselves and to help secure thousands of jobs around the country. But if we hear on the left hand side, it sounds like this is just something that benefits the most, the richest, as if it doesn't matter that we want to stimulate more people to start for themselves, get themselves a job and establish jobs for others. It almost sounds as if the left-hand side solution to get more people to work is to unwind the taxes for the companies and the people who have done so far. But if we're going to get people to bet, we're going to have to take care of how they can succeed. In this way, some on the left-hand side can argue that tax relief also affects those who are well. But we also want people who are doing well today and who have succeeded to succeed even better in the future. We can't stop giving tax relief in fear that someone can get more. The logical thing about tax relief is that most people have to keep more of their own income. No matter how low or high the income is, they should retain as much of their own earnings as possible. Similarly, it is quite natural for us in the Progress Party not to tax people’s homes – this unfair tax, which neither takes into account the income of the family, the situation of life, nor the debt. And I can't understand how those who cry out most about economic inequality can be the foremost ones to defend a tax that hits the hardest of the most vulnerable in the housing market. Just this tax is one of the taxes that really hurt new homeowners in the start-up phase, who have high mortgages and maybe small children. The party is proud to have helped the government to propose a reduction in the tax on property from 7 to 5 per million – a reduction of almost 30 pst. It's a first step in our work to completely eliminate property taxes. And with such an impact, we look forward to meeting both the budget debate of the autumn in Stortinget and also to continuing to get good and positive governance through, for most people, no matter how difficult the situation may seem right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e589	It is true, as has been said, that the Workers' Party is a governing party. Throughout our history, we have taken responsibility, made compromises and accepted decisions. I would like to say that it is particularly outside of our political practice to present proposals which have been dealt with by the Storting and already voted down. Even now, it seems that there is still a majority against the proposal that the Labour Party has made in this debate. Then the question is: why does the Workers' Party break such a practice? The answer to that is regional reform. The regional reform, as its geographical and structural design has become, is an organisation of our regional level that is simply crazy – such a bad political craft that one would believe a government, regardless of political colour, had seen that this should be reconsidered. Some counties are alone, as they are today. Some aggregations don't just look random, but they're random -- at least no one stands up and explains this structure. Nobody does it -- none from the government parties, none from the government. Worse still, it is and becomes when the government and the majority in this case are deliberately defied by their own political environments — county councils and political environments that say that this is not feasible in a proper way. They say no to the aggregation. Wide popular uprising and resistance and negative attitudes come upon this. Think of Finnmark! I'm tracking that there's going to be disagreement about this out of this century, but we're going to spite it anyway! I do not understand why the Norwegian political greatness should behave in such a way, contrary to all popular understanding in almost all parties. It is important to be told, this is not only true for the Workers' Party in the Week, of which I am a part. The progress party is against the Vikings – votes against, is against and is activating to stop processes internally in the Vikings. But it has to go through. It's going through! And why? Probably because the government parties eventually don't care so much about it, because if it collapses, they can go back to their private positions about the state and the municipalities. This doesn't last. This isn't the biggest thing worth it. We shouldn't do it this way. That is why the Labour Party has promoted the proposal we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e602	The debate should remind us that policies are more than budgetary appropriations and individual items. When the Right wants to contribute to the well-being of a variety of private ideal actors, it is a recognition that society is created from below, and that one needs all the creativity and competence that exists to challenge and bring new ideas. That is why when the Workers' Party cuts in the support for private ideal kindergartens, we rather demand quality, so that parents and children are satisfied. When the Workers' Party becomes genuinely concerned that there will be fresh schools, and wants to introduce a municipal veto right, we are concerned that the students will have to choose what is right for them, and that it is the system and the municipalities that need to adapt, not the individuals. We don't label people as welfare profiters, because making money on something you dare start yourself, especially when you contribute to the well-being of others. At the same time, market economy and individual freedom are not enough to have a good society. We also need security and belonging together. But for the Right, community and community solutions are somewhat more than the State. If we are to have stronger communities, such as the family, the workplace, sports or the communities, these must also have power and influence over their own everyday lives. They must simply be allowed to choose what the majority in this Chamber may not think is very clever. Society doesn't necessarily get warmer even if you run it politically, because people have different opinions about what's a good life for them. It is just to ask Tonje, a ‘legstrong’ mountain people who, after many years of mental illness, were allowed to choose treatment at a private centre in Hurdal through the Free Treatment Scheme, a system that the government and the Christian People’s Party have established and which the Workers’ Party and SV want to remove. Tonje felt that she herself could finally define what was important to her. The left-hand side calls the Free Treatment Choice a privatisation reform. Jonas Gahr Støre even said that free treatment choices were not so important, because it was ‘only’ 240 drug addicts who had received help. 240 addicts may be a drop in the ocean in the public system, but these are 240 individuals who needed a different offer than the standard solution they were given. The founder of the mob project, Eddi Eidsvåg, said that free treatment has saved the lives of several addicts he knows, and that instead of following coffins down the church floor, he has been given the opportunity to follow people up to the altar. For the Right, it's okay that people get to choose differently. For us, freedom of choice is a value in itself, and people should always be put in front of the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e616	There are many things in this room, but there are some of these things that are most important. They deal with the future of the planet and hence the future of mankind. It would be completely irresponsible for children and grandchildren not to bring the threats to climate and natural diversity on earth as the most important thing. I'm not alone in fear that we're going past the 2-degree target. If we add together all the measures that the government has announced, it will not comply with the 2-degree target. That's got to be done. I see the 3 flashing out there. I hardly dare think about the consequences, but scientists have described them quite carefully. This is a scenario we have to wig through – no matter what the toll resistance, no matter the price of a green shift today. Because the price gets so infinitely higher if we wait. That is why we in this Chamber – and all parliaments – must now take courageous action as monks. Something like that actually said also the Right parliamentary leader yesterday, but it was in one speech. We have to raise our eyes, not think about today, or just tomorrow, or next big shot in three years. It won't last. Humanity is seizing more and more of the planet's area, such as the area of the Earth. has led to a half-life of 40 years in the world's animal populations. Cultivated land is laid under asphalt, forest is mowed, plantations are planted. It would have been to hope that the census took hold of some of these long, decisive lines and tangled both political accounts and political budgets on them. I record that to a small extent that was the case in the census and in the posts of the right-hand parties. The Prime Minister was very good at general terms, but what is Norway doing at home? That's the big question. Government climate accounting keywords are more oil activity, while they boast of emissions cuts – with fuel from orangutan forest. I've been there. It's easier like that. Then there is a postponement of climate targets. Now it is no longer 2020, but 2030 that applies. There's a lot of big shots left. It's easier like that. What about the degradation of Norwegian nature? The government has made it easier, more clear, with good Progress Party – Right-Signature. Decisions in all matters relating to the planning and development of which there have been major objections from the State Department, and others, have been transferred from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Local Affairs. It's easier like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e637	A little bit out in the throne debate yesterday, I actually let myself be provoked a little. In fact, it was just before noon, and the blood sugar had begun to get a little low, but still! The new line of conflict between the right and right governments against the Labour Party is based on too many proposals for new policies. What has happened to Right – from new ideas and better solutions to no more ideas and no new solutions? Not finding anything new isn't sustainable. Norway needs a new policy. That's why we're here. We need policies that prepare us for the future and the major challenges we face, the long lines we're going to draw out in a throne debate. The Labour Party promotes new policies for meeting climate change with 40 proposals promoted with SV yesterday, and policies for integration, policies for bringing the whole country into use, policies for families with children. And the Workers' Party promotes new policies to meet an ageing population with twice as many older people in Norway in the next few years. As an elderly person, I am naturally very concerned about the last. Now I want to say something about what is not sustainable. It is not sustainable to transfer tasks and make demands to municipalities without ensuring that they have enough money to carry out the tasks. Good care for the elderly costs. More employees with better time provide better services – so it can smell waffles and flappers in our hospitals, so you can take a walk into fresh air or run with an activity you like. It is not sustainable for decentralised nursing studies to be completed in Northern Ireland, when we know that municipalities are facing the greatest challenges here with an ageing population and a lack of skilled labour, and not least when we know that students who are educated in North Norway are essentially going to be in North Norway. It is not sustainable for us to talk more about how volunteering should contribute to the care of the elderly than about what older people can contribute to society, and what fantastic capacity and resources they themselves represent. It is not sustainable that only more than 600 people with dementia use GPS as a tool in everyday life, when the police have to initiate weekly searches for people who have gone missing. It is not sustainable that dementia research is underfunded compared to other diagnostics. 10,000 people get dementia every year, and the number is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e654	Promoting too much new policy is not the worst Labour Party has been accused of. I'm happy to be on a team that has folded up the sleeves and comes to the Stortinget with its bosom full of new policies. The right side of the foot has solidly planted on the brake. But it may not be so strange, when the hand is not so safe on the steering wheel anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e657	I allow myself to start by saying that it is a bit big for a still relatively fresh stork representative to sit in this hall and hear the king speaking the throne. For me, it is very motivating to hear how to work on what I think in the future is a very important political project – how to lay the foundation for a sustainable welfare society. The left is a policy based on an ideology in which tolerance, diversity, freedom, community, international solidarity and future-optimism are central values. We need to protect a society where everyone can live their own, free lives. To that, we need a system in which we not only give people rights, but also guarantee all the opportunity to have their rights asserted, regardless of their financial assumptions. We have the opportunity to make Norway a priority country when it comes to securing fundamental rights for all people, whether in terms of gender, sexuality, disability or anything else. And we're doing great. The six areas of activity outlined by the government respond well to how to create a sustainable welfare society. For my part, I want to highlight the fifth challenge – how to reduce poverty. Because it's still like 10 pst. of the children of our country live in families who have had low incomes for a long time. There are two or three pieces in each classroom. In my own town, Old Oslo, there are areas where over half of the children have it like this. There it's just become the most common. Therefore, it becomes artificial for me as Oslo's representative to hear parts of the opposition drawing a picture of the government project as 'cold' and 'brutal', while in my own city we see that the same parties' response to the challenges we have is to cut off legal aid for women with poor finances, women in a difficult situation, or cut off support for drug users. For the Left, the fight against poverty is the same as the fight for equal opportunities. The Nav report Poverty and Living Conditions in Norway, published in 2017, notes that people with low incomes are more likely to have poor health and less social contact than those above the low income limit. Children in these families participate to a lesser extent than others in kindergarten, SFO and recreational activities. That's why I'm glad we're going to take the next steps in the inclusion dungeon this fall. We are going to fight through a broad poverty effort in the state budget, and we are going to look at how we can equip child protection to become even better at giving children a good starting point in order to succeed in life. I look forward to a meaningful landfill session.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e668	Norway is the country of opportunity. But we need stronger political leadership that counters abduction, spends the community's money on investment across the country, alters the framework conditions so that private operators are given the opportunity to improve profitability in the production and processing of renewable green natural resources, promote a more well-organised working life that provides security for permanent work and income, listen to and respect the opinions of local governments, county councils and referendums so that democratic bodies have confidence in the population, strengthen preparedness in all areas, so that we have greater ability to deal with unforeseen events, and bring the supply of agricultural food up to 50 pst. based on our own plant production. International solidarity is becoming even more important for Norway as a rich country, but we need to invest far more in grassroots action, giving people the ability to cope. Norway must take part in the UN quota refugees. Integration must be far more achieved through participation in practical work. Norway is different, but we're not going to be marine enough. Today, Norway is centralised. Public services are privatised. The bureaucracy is far from people growing. People experience greater distance. The government is strengthening the power of market forces. This is the historical logic of the ideology of the right hand parties. Important and major changes are taking place in Norwegian working life. What was well-respected, well-paid work a short time ago is now known in certain circles as ‘polique work’. This is likely to result in weak recruitment of skilled workers among young people. Norway needs skilled painters, gardeners, fish professionals, drivers, health professionals — yes, the professionals who keep Norway running every day. Naturally, all should use more modern natural resource-saving technologies. We are supposed to have fibers until all companies and permanent homes, as people got a phone call in their time when Norway was poorer on money. New technologies can be used to promote the interests of ordinary people. New technologies can be used to alienate and weaken the interests of labour walls. It is the majority in the United Kingdom that decides whether the interests of the working people are being protected by new technology. Norway is so amazing – the country of opportunity. It's experienced by everyone when we see Norway from abroad. The debate on the throne must be the opinion of the opposition on the government's plan for the coming year. What do we want with Norway, should be the headline. On 12 September I visited Loppa Island in the municipality of Loppa. There are seven permanent residents on this historic island with the rich natural resources. The advice I received from the experienced priest in the Norwegian Church was: You must stand up for those who live extremely. For me and the Center Party, this is a good advice with a double bottom – both geographically and socially. As elected members of the People's Party, the Centre Party must constantly work for greater equality between peoples. Fans need digital all-man rights – fibers up to all houses. Only the community does such a task. Flows require natural resource tax for the municipality of its 30 million farmed fish. kilos. Two dollars per kilogram would be 60 million. NOK and made it attractive to sit on the municipal board. It's the bulk of the population that decides Loppa's future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e685	The police have been considerably strengthened since this government joined in 2013. There have been 2,600 new employees in the police force, and that is a very large number. The police have been given new equipment, new cars, new helicopters, the emergency centre is being built, and a lot has been done to combat violence and child abuse. The contingency plan against violence and abuse against children is a total of 850 million. kr. There's been a lot of good here, and the police are budget winners year after year. But progress in police reform is not just about money. It's about how the police manage to work in a different way. It's about how the police manage to make use of the resources around them. In fact, the police don't manage to create safe communities alone. For this reason, the Oslo police have agreed to cooperate more closely with security agencies – not because they are to do police work, but because they need closer contact, so that more information is transferred to the police. Because it doesn't happen by itself. You need relationships, you need to know each other for information. So it's to create safe communities that the government with the police reform is now setting up police contacts in all municipalities. These police contacts will help politicians, municipal leaders, school leaders, teachers, child protection – that everyone in the municipality thinks crime prevention. For this the police are unable to do alone. In order to combat crime at work, this government has established a total of seven labour-life crime centres. Nav, Labour Inspectorate, Tax Administration, Customs and Police are being coordinated, and the results are very good. The police had not been able to do this alone – and this is a growing crime. It's part of the new crime scene we're seeing, and it's usually organized criminals, who have new tactics as the law changes. Then we have to work together to get this done. Police reform is therefore a quality reform and it is a matter of mobilising all forces. The police reform is not just for the police alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e698	We have a functioning democracy in Norway. We have good community solutions, we have a high standard of living and safe communities. Nevertheless, we hear that the opposition parties struggle with memories of how much better everything was before, and give eager mischief descriptions of our welfare society. There are also promises of rematches, reversals and unsynchronised promises that are not funded. It creates both expectations and uncertainties around our society. This does not promise well for our greatest challenge, which is to create a sustainable welfare society for the future. Sustainability is also about the green shift, which gives us new opportunities, jobs and technologies that we have not thought about before, as well as the environmental and climate impacts. The government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, have therefore pursued a responsible policy that leads the country into the knowledge society. Digitalisation and technological development have created a need for reforms that have produced good results for the country. We're modernizing where the red-green will reverse. I also notice harder rhetoric from the opposition, which polarizes the debates unnecessarily out there. Claiming that private enterprises are welfare professionals and that they and competition undermine the public sector and the community appears to be fragmented and historyless. For the community, it is not just the public sector. The Community is not just a public servant. The Community is not a public system. In fact, the Community is also a private employee and a private business. The community is private individuals -- it's you, and it's me. Stamping private employees and businesses as welfare professionals does not make the poorer richer. It just makes us all poorer. The path out of poverty is a safe, steady job. Private business is an important part of the solution — that is not the problem. In the districts, private business goes to waste, unemployment is record low, and optimism flourishes. The main threat now is to provide enough labour. The good development shows that the government also delivers district policies that work – in fact throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e711	Norway faces many challenges in the coming years. That is why I am pleased that we have an offensive and powerful government. For the Progress Party, it is important that people are trained for work and not for unemployment. That is why we are working for more people to choose from professional education. Professional letters are now more in demand in business than in the master’s degree, and both companies and the public sector will in the future have a major need for skilled professionals in vocational and vocational training. There is no doubt that it is important for value creation that even more students choose professional subjects. This is a priority area for the Progress Party, both on the Stortinget and in the government. That is why we are raising the status of professionals and introducing measures to combat unacceptable cases of non-compliance. These measures are now seen to be effective. Several implements, and fewer fall from them. We allow for alternative training courses, further develop the offer for students who want to combine vocational letters and study skills, implement the vocational correction of the common subjects in vocational training programmes and strengthen the possibility for professionals to switch between school and business training. The government has strengthened vocational education by nearly 700 million. kr and increased the apprenticeship allowance by a total of NOK 21 000 per apprentice since 2013. At the same time, the government is ensuring that vocational teachers are better able to improve their skills, so that we ensure that the students are up-to-date with the education they deserve and that society needs. With the Progress Party in government, the number of applicants for the professions has increased, and for the first time in many years, there are now as many students who choose the subject of vocational training as a student preparation in higher education. At the same time, the number of apprenticeships increases for the third consecutive year. But we're not yet in the goal. We all have to be better off raising the positive profile with the professions and making sure that students who are going to choose their future career know all the possibilities of vocational education and that a letter is as valuable as a master's degree. We live in exciting and challenging times. Technological advances make society evolve rapidly. It requires that the training to provide future labour must be flexible and adaptable. To build the country, we need not only people who go to work in dress, but many more of those who go to work in the basement. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the government in the state budget for 2019 is proposing to set aside $30 million. for workers in industries particularly exposed to migration and digitisation, and will grant 36,3 million. kr for attempts at continuing training of diplomas through modules. It will give more opportunities to work longer. No one should be out of date. Norwegian skilled workers have been and are still among the best in the world. It should continue to be so, and therefore the strengthening of the professions must continue. The Progress Party will do what they can to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e726	The growth in the economy is solid, the families get better, and more people get to work. In school, students learn more, and fewer fall away. Road and rail are built as never before, and climate emissions are falling. Yes, we have a lot to enjoy. Through ten budgetary units and many joint decisions, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party and the Left have changed Norway for the better. However, even if the results are good, the person responsible should not go there. We have many challenges to address, and now it is important to build a sustainable welfare society with space for all. Policy should not only be measured by how the country goes as a whole, but by what we do, and how we succeed in lifting and including them with the least. We know that one of the biggest differences in Norway is between those who have a job and those who have no job. We therefore need to ensure that more people with disabilities, migrant backgrounds and gaps in the CV get a foot within the workplace, and that is precisely why the government is launching a large-scale inclusion. Then we have to do our part to make children who grow up in low-income families have the same opportunities to participate in the same line with their friends. They will benefit from more and more up-to-date teachers in school, a kindergarten with several safe adults and skilled educators and a society that ensures families the freedom of choice they deserve. Every year we give over 50,000 children cheaper babysitting space. We have set up a national grant scheme against child poverty of about 200 million. kr, we have kept the cash support for those who need it the most, and we ensure that all children – I repeat: all children – will have the right to participate in a leisure activity and be included in the social communities of society. With the Right in government, we're going to be glad that a lot is going well, while we're stepping up our efforts for those who need it the most. Together with the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left, we work for a warmer society with room for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e739	In connection with the opening of the Great Government and the mention of the state of the kingdom, as we heard in the throne, I allow myself to report from my constituency, Finnmark. The government has made it clear that a state should not be able to exist with as low a population as Finnmark has, 76 000 inhabitants. The size to a geographical extent doesn't matter, says the government. So it doesn't matter that Finnmark is Norway's largest state: in an area of 13 pst. larger than Denmark, according to the government, it should not be possible to implement a municipal autonomy, much less to transfer a number of government tasks that the government foresees for obedient rural people. Whatever Finnmark's population wants, it doesn't matter to the government either. At 87 pst. says no to merger with Troms, the government takes no notice of. While the government's view is that the population is too low, the government is doing everything it can to drain Finnmark for resources. Fishing, which according to one of our oldest and still applicable laws, the law of May 27, 1775, belongs to the Finns in common, systematically shuts the government out of the county. The government's policy has for years been a systematic omission, which is not only shameful and illegal, but also unheard of in Norway's history. Coding rights belonging to the Finnish fleet shrink year by year. It is clear to me that the government's policy will make Finnmark a colony with so few inhabitants that it will be easy for external participations to provide the county's resources, lock fishing facilities and use and go. The government is throwing waste on political governance as a means of allocating fishing rights to young, active fishermen to bring prosperity to the Norwegian people in the years to come. The challenge of poverty reduction is pointed out in the census. Work is the best way in which individuals can increase their income and well-being. In Finnmark, it is easiest to achieve by providing free access to the young people who want to enter the fish. The centre party will take hold. The quotas in the fisheries shall belong to the people of Finnmark, as before, and therefore also be allocated to the coastal people by the authorities of Finnmark, in line with the wishes of the State Council of Malta for the transfer of government tasks to the counties. These are distributed to young, active fishermen in Finnmark, for supply and processing locally. Have we not in Finnmark just quality fish that a crested European market is not getting enough of? Isn't there any winnings to pick up? [[President clubs]] Yes, today...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e751	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e756	Yes – but at least we make money on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e761	In the nobility it was stated by His Majesty the King what place Norway has in Europe. Norway is an open economy, and I have to say that the sounds that seem to resonate here in the Chamber with regard to our relationship with Europe are starting to worry me. As a representative from More and Romesdal, the country's second largest export group, I would say there's only one thing that applies: we have to have a market to sell our goods to if we're to make money. It is amazing that Norway, which is not a member of the EU, can still participate in the internal market and ensure that a country with 5 million inhabitants has a market of over 500 million inhabitants. 80 pst. of all exports out of Norway go to the EU, and we are likely to pass 100 billion. kr during the year with regard to the value of fish exports. Being part of the EEA Agreement gives Norway enormous opportunities and growth. At the same time, we have to deal with the fact that being part of the internal market is going two ways. I noticed the left turn that's going on in the Workers' Party. It is now time to start reserving for various issues that come from the EU even before the issue is settled in Stortinget. It doesn't testify very much about a steering party. And at least it's not like what the Labour Party leader said in the Chamber yesterday: ‘The working party will not support the policy of the Centre Party to repeal the EEA Agreement. We're in favour of that agreement. It is good for Norwegian society, and it is good for Norwegian workers.’ I fully agree with that. But it creeps in my ears when, while it is believed that the EEA is good for Norwegian workers, from the same party says that you should reserve yourself against what the agreement involves. For if Norwegian workers along the coast are to have a job to go to tomorrow, we have to work to make the EEA agreement – and what it involves – as good as possible. Then it is a pity that the Workers' Party, which is initially a guarantor of the EEA Agreement, is now beginning to wave in these matters. I hope it is the head of the Workers' Party who gets the last word in the cases that are coming. Finally. It is a huge cross of thought that parties in this room who call themselves solidarity say, on the contrary, no to the actions that the EU is taking, for example. In order to promote the rights of workers in our neighbouring countries — a position in which we say no to anything that can help people in our neighbouring countries, with strengthened rights, better job protection and better pay, just to challenge us in a few areas. It's not particularly solidarity -- it's pulling up the ladder. We are going to have an exciting harvest in Europe and are glad that the government continues to work closely against the UK authorities and the EU to ensure Norway’s best interests in terms of brexit, which is imminent.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e777	I wish both the President and the co-founders well met for a new session. I expect that most of us have used the summer well, to visit businesses and meet people and voters who want to meet big politicians. Last time at the Stavanger oil fair, I met a local company called Kitemill, from the West-Agder Lister region, which combines autonomous vehicle and drone technology with power generation in a completely new and innovative way. If they succeed in producing power this whole new way, where the kits can be 1,000 meters up in the air, we have a whole new industrial venture. I'm glad we have a lot of people in the region. This is a project I am going to follow in the future. In Europe, like in Norway, renewable energy is being invested. In Norway, among other things, open both floating and fixed sea wind turbines. New wind turbines are planned in Europe, but they can also be designed and produced in Norway. After all, we have a world-class business life because of, among other things, oil and gas. In the past, I have met a business that will build windmill elements on the list in the municipality of Farsund in West Agder, then to assemble them out in Europe, where there is strong demand. I have seen ready-to-use data centers throughout West Agder – from Flekkefjord in the west to Vennesla in the east of the county. South Africa has a unique location close to Europe. A need for storage is expected to double over the next few years, and it is important that Norway does the smart grips now in order to have new innovative industries tomorrow. We have surplus power in Norway in general, but in South Africa in particular, and I will use it to create new jobs in our part of the country. New industrial adventures can be created if we have a business that is not depleted by taxes, taxes and public regulations, and if it is political will. This has been addressed by the Progress Party while we have been in government, and we are going to continue to work for even better conditions for Norwegian business and to create growth and new business and industrial adventures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e790	One of the Workers' Party's proud slogans is ‘By and Land – Hand in Hand’. It says everything about the Workers' Party wanting to build and develop the whole country, not just central struts. The Labour Party will pursue a policy to facilitate growth and development throughout Norway. Social democratic district policy is based on Community solutions, trust between people and authorities and equivalent services across the country. In order to achieve the objective of equivalent services, certain conditions need to be put in place: It is necessary to extend broadband and high-speed Internet access everywhere. It is an infrastructure that is critical now when you cannot pay in a store without being online. Education depends on it, and not least all types of transport and collective services depend on it. Future jobs depend to a large extent on good digital services. That's why the Workers' Party put in $0.5 billion. kr to broadband in our previous alternative budget. If it had been passed, we would have come a long way now. Furthermore, the exploitation of natural resources must have ring-fenced effects and local workplaces. A good example is the extraction of oil from the Johan Castberg field and our demand for landing to the Finnmark coast. We know that such extraction and expansion will produce both national and regional ring-effects, but it is equally important that such projects also generate local growth and development. Knowledge is power, and it gives people the opportunity to influence their own lives and societies. The skills needs of the districts must be met by a more decentralised and better training provision in the disciplines needed by the different parts of the country. This point cannot be met without strengthening the finances of municipalities and counties. In Finnmark, we have learned that the write-down of student loans has had a positive effect and attracted professionals and thus resulted in an improved level of education. It is a good system that should be continued. In order to reach the vision of the Workers' Party for the development of cities and countries in a positive direction, the counties need to be strengthened by regional development funds and the municipalities with food. We have experienced a tightening of these means, and that means that the districts are not allowed to control their own economic development. The Labour Party has always had an overall and long-term approach to achieving its objectives. We know that if we're going to succeed, it has to work systematically. We're a governing party, not a protest party. We're looking forward, not backwards. Looking forward, we see a better development of District Norway with the Labour Party policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e809	For too many years, too many lives have been lost with a misguided drug policy — a drug policy that makes those who are the furthest down to criminals. I'm proud to be part of a party that puts the individual first, because it's not supposed to be that since drug users decide to get help, they meet a closed door. Help should be there when they need it. That's why I think the job that Health Minister Bent Höie is doing is so incredibly important. We can't say no to all those who want to help others, just because the offer they're making is not public. For some parties, it is more important to protect a system that does not work as it should – something that is sinful. The most important thing for the Right is that those in need of help get the help they need, when they need it – regardless of who runs the offer. The free choice of treatment in the care system gives the patient freedom of choice and allows those who are struggling to get exactly the help they themselves want. What's more important than that? But in addition to getting help early, predictability is crucial. In 2015, the government introduced a cycle of cancer packages. As a result, cancer patients have received better treatment and feel safer. From 1 January next year, patients with mental and drug problems will have the same safety and predictability. Finally, we have avoided punishing drug users with fines and prison sentences to get help and treatment – the most important whole-way turnaround in Norwegian drug policy. There's a lot of things the government can be proud of, but I'm going to dry to say that the most important job that's been done is in the care of the russian, because maybe they're not addicted to the addicts who always shout the loudest, but that doesn't mean they shouldn't be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e818	I want to start by thanking Tord and the others in the ASVL for the invitation to the most important breakfast of the year. It was a good mark of a good piece of work that was on the outside here. But it's not a persuasion debate without mentioning the ongoing regional reform. The reform triggers strong emotions and great commitment. There were high expectations for regional reform, but the government's lack of willingness and ambition to drive the reform forward and to give it real content became, unfortunately, more and more evident early on. The regional reform emerged more as a substanceless reform, without focusing on new tasks, which was the most important factor in reducing the number of counties by pushing forward a new geographical breakdown. The counties would be bigger, stronger and more robust. Focusing on new tasks, distance constraints and challenges with sparsely populated areas was absent. Outside the counties, dissatisfaction, scepticism, and resistance increased. But the majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, voted in favour of a merger of the states. The Christian People's Party correctly stated that they would see the new geographical breakdown in connection with the new tasks to be transferred to the states. This meant that many of us who opposed any aggregation that was not based on volunteering, had a hope that the Christian People's Party could change its position. In retrospect, the government parties and the Christian People's Party have entered into an agreement that they will press through the coalitions previously adopted. The same batches have also agreed on the tasks to be transferred to the new merged counties, tasks which, according to KS calculations, will give the new counties a total of 100 jobs and a budget increase of 0,25 pst. – i.e. minimal changes – new tasks that could easily have been solved within today’s county councils. Regional reform was intended to be a major transfer of tasks and instruments from central to regionally elected levels. This doesn't seem to be going to happen. I also record that the representatives of the government parties and the Christian People's Party have not talked much about the reform, the content of the reform or the state mergers in their contributions to this debate. The Labour Party has made the following proposals during the debate: ‘The government asks that good and voluntary processes should be the starting point for changes in the state structure. Associations of counties shall be based on voluntary activity. In cases where there is no wish to do so, the aggregations shall not be carried out.’ I hope, of course, that there will be broad support in the Chamber for that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e838	It would be too bad if the debate on the throne were to be held without anyone talking about the need for a more powerful and comprehensive policy to take care of our cultural heritage. We are now there that the Storting has drawn the government after itself – and got an impact on a new message of cultural memory, and that there is going to be a strategy to take care of our old churches. There are two left-wing government councils that are responsible for cultural memories and churches, and I want to make it clear that I have great expectations that they are now beginning to deliver results that are in line with what the Left and the Center parties have agreed on in the Stortinget earlier. Throughout the year it has been quite quiet from Trine Skei Grande and Ola Elvestuen in the case of old churches and cultural memories. I may understand that it has taken some time to change once you have entered the government, but now I want some action. The cultural memory sector is in a period in which much is clearly waiting, for example. because we're going to have the new cultural memory message. But things are urgent! The loss of cultural memories is far too great. The Riksantikvaren has too little money to distribute. The cultural memory fund is still too small in relation to the tasks the fund can solve. We still do not have tax incentives that stimulate even maintenance by private owners. The advisory system for those responsible for peace and protected cultural memories is far too poor. The traditional craftsmanship is far too poor. Municipalities are too poorly equipped to serve as the first line service in cultural memory protection. We're still hearing about farmers who get stuck with inconvenient bills when they're going to make normal investments on their farms. All of this requires new political approaches and more resources. The latter challenge shall be addressed by the Storting during the voting today. I'll cross my fingers. Then we have the churches. The majority has decided that we should have ‘a reinforced strategy for ensuring a proper level of maintenance for medieval stone churches, protected post-reformer churches and especially important churches from after 1650’, and the Stortinget has asked the government to assess whether new conservation programmes can be established, following the pattern of the successful stave church programme. But here too, little will be said that the work is on the way. That is why we in the Central Party yesterday suggested that dialogue should now be started with the various parties responsible for the old churches, so that we can get a sensible and broadly anchored model of how to shape the great church vow in the years to come. I hope the assembly joins in. I noticed otherwise that the Swedish nationalist product just escaped the news that the church antiquity grants they give to the churches to care for culturally valuable churches are working. It's about 460 million. Swedish krona per year. I do not decide if it is correct, but think of a lifting something like that would have been. Anyway, we're not going to get any further if the government doesn't get to hand things over to Stortinget about this. Cultural memory protection is now too much supported by the voluntary sector. It is time for the state to assume a responsibility that is proportionate to the importance of cultural heritage to the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e884	The Workers' Party is a freedom movement. We work for equal opportunities. From yesterday's pulpit, Jonas Gahr Støre concluded that the policy of the Right-Registration leads to weaker communities and increased disparities. It is unfortunately well visible also in Norwegian higher education. Let me do some examples -- first internationalization. Knowledge is global. Internationalisation is a prerequisite for good higher education, but what happens in Norway? After the Right Party and the Advance Party put down the quota system for developing countries, fewer foreign students come here. The number of students from outside the EEA, not least from developing countries, has fallen significantly. Those who now come to Norway to study are consistently richer, and they come from better quieter countries than before. The African students are almost completely gone. So the Right Government raised the threshold for foreign students further as they increased the visa fee for international students by 65 pst. from January of this year. This in particular weakens the possibilities for those who do not already have much money. The Labour Party is responsible for a different policy. We stand for international solidarity and equal rights to education. We want diversity. Norwegian higher education is enriched by students from outside, not least from developing countries. We will open up important competences and experience. We would never have agreed to the solstice of the school money that Left Lot passed when the aged budget with an increased student visa fee. Another example of increasing bias under this government is within the skills of the welfare state. Some professions and professions are becoming totally women-dominated, like psychology. In some subjects, it has been seen that you could recruit more broadly, e.g. medicine. Then it's a paradox that the Right Government prevents the teaching places from counteracting increasing bias. Why does the government doubt grades like such a dominant criterion, with all the weaknesses it has, especially in professional training? For the Workers' Party, this is very simple. We build the knowledge nation of Norway on broad participation in research and higher education — for better value creation, more growth and more well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e899	The Central Party and the Labour Party have used the debate of the throne to sentence the police reform and caricure the situation in the Norwegian police. Forgetting is the starting point. Forgotten is the starting point for the police reform, which told us that we had great differences in police Norway that had particularly affected the police services in the districts. It is forgotten that the organisation of Norwegian police is actually a barrier to delivering better police services. Also forgotten is the fact that only 85 county police offices and police stations had the opportunity to set up a police patrol, out of a total of 354 police stations. Police reform cannot be used as an explanation of the challenges facing the Norwegian police at all times. If there are problems in criminal proceedings in some police districts, there is a need to address the specific case and see why. Similarly, no more resources are always the answer to any emerging challenge in the Norwegian police force, as the Police Union tends to present it as such. Yesterday we experienced a milestone in Stortinget. The centre party, at the Toppe representative, actually referred to centralisation in positive order. The representative pointed out that, in some cases, professional resources in the health sector had to be pooled in order to provide better health services. It's the exact same situation in the police. Crime has become so complex and demanding that the professional environments need to be streamlined in order to manage organised crime, cybercrime, online fraud, identity theft. In fact, the jumper is gone in Building Norway. The police director pointed out at a hearing on property protection in Stortinget the other day that there has been an ‘enormous preparedness lift’ in the Norwegian police force. The whole kingdom has enjoyed it. At the same time, community studies show that 95 pst. the population is satisfied with the police services and feels safe. This is related. It is linked because we have strengthened national response capacities. New emergency services are being built, and new police helicopters are being purchased. The response rate is increased by 50 pst. Police districts have got new armored vehicles, and now, in fact, 1,200 police officers can handle sharp situations. It's a dramatic improvement over a few years back. The developments that the opposition describes for the Norwegian police and the security of society are not in line with what this government has provided politically, or how the people out there perceive this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e912	Through a series of articles in the past week, VG has focused on how six-year-olds are doing in school and the transition between kindergarten and school. These articles are depressing reading. The teachers are slaughtering the school for the youngest. Too little play and too much stress and theory are the teachers' hard judgment. Children's psychiatrists, researchers and teachers tell us how the performance pressure and hours of sitting are creating fear and school rejection from the first class. On repeated occasions SV has tried to hammer in how and why we must create a more practical and varied school day, not just for our six-year-olds, but for all the kids in school: a school with enough teachers, with time to watch and follow up each individual student a school that is practical and varied; a school with time for play and physical activity; a school that makes sure our kids eat a healthy meal during the day a school where the kids get help with the homework and can be free when they get home This is what SV calls the all-day school, and as politicians from both the right and the left tend to criticize. But now students, parents and teachers don't want to be quiet anymore. A rebellion is growing in strength. Both Kristin Clemet and Minister of Knowledge Sanner are forced to admit that playing is also important in school. Unfortunately, the government only has one answer when they are confronted with the need for a more child-bearing school, as Mr. Sanner so beautifully expressed it in the VG: the renewal of the trade union, the renewal of the trade union, the renewal that the Stortinget has adopted. But new curricula themselves do not change school practice. Government parties have systematically voted down all the proposals that students, teachers and researchers have requested in order to get a more practical and varied day at school. The full-time school is more up-to-date than ever and will provide a better school day for the students, a better working day for the teachers and a better working day for the families.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e942	For the Workers' Party, equal rights to specialist health services are important throughout the country. Both people living in the city and those who live more piggy-headed must be confident that they will get help when they need it. Strong professional environments of good quality are needed. It requires that you have units of a certain size. But in the case of emergency medicine, the time factor is also crucial. Every minute counts, and then you have to have good emergency preparedness. It's in the hospital economy. The Workers' Party proposed a total of 1.5 billion. kr more than the current government of hospitals in its alternative budget. When it's tight, you have to give priority. In several health establishments, there is a major shift in emergency preparedness. We see that as a ghastly example in my home country these days. Demands for increased competence and a missed transition to the bystander increase costs. In order to deal with this, the Health Management Board responds with more centralisation, the closure of ambulance services, the fight for helicopter base relocation and the closure of ambulance stations. For example, in Senja, an assessment is made. to merge two such stations. The response time will be greatly increased. The reorganisation simply makes it impossible to reach many within the time limit. Money is the big driver. The Board of Health organises with open eyes into a worse emergency response. Today, there is a response from Health Minister Höie to the Sandra Borch of the Centre Party to questions about response times. As I read it, one does not meet the guiding standards for response time in one of the municipalities of Troms. Nevertheless, we need to organise ourselves into something that will make the situation worse. We're getting stronger trade unions and better skills, says the board. It doesn't help if it's Mads Gilbert himself who gets into the ambulance, if I'm dead when he shows up, the Senjaværen answers, and he's the one who's right. This is the responsibility of the Management Board and they should stop this reorganisation. But it is also the responsibility of the central authorities. Such situations arise when hospitals are underfunded. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we see the importance of more money for hospitals. That's why we proposed 1.5 billion. kr more. Perhaps one should look at a funding model that takes into account large distances. It doesn't do today's model. The Minister for Health also has a considerable room for action. He can take decisions through business meetings and make more concrete demands and follow developments more closely. The recommended response time standard is indicative, but we're on wild roads when you don't even have a theoretical chance to meet the norm for many. With the Working Party in the driver's seat, we would have a different situation. The companies would have had more money, and we would have had a government council that wasn't passive to the challenges. For us, equal rights to health are important, both for those living in the city and for those living in the country – city and country, hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e959	Yesterday, the LO-linked NNN stood outside the Storting and marked resistance and despair over the unpredictable behaviour of the right-wing government in its industrial policy. Employees related to Norwegian food and drink production have reason to be concerned, and they were given evidence of their concerns in the State budget adopted last year. The right-wing government introduced an increase in the overnight charge for chocolate and sugar products without having been determined in any way other than that the government calculated the percentage of the levy needed to cover the gap between revenue and expenditure in the State budget. 83 pst. the fee increase became the phase. While Swedish border shops are cheering over the increase in fees, Orkla says at the same time that they have been so hard hit by the charging shop that it is clearly not possible to make future investments in Norway. The fasitator after one year is that the government is rocking the foundation of safe Norwegian jobs, i.e. a predictable industrial policy. The fee, as it is today, is very little accurate. 40 pst of the sugar consumed in Norway is not subject to charge. The current arrangements for fees are out-of-date, illogical and anti-competitive. Increased border trade to Sweden by over 500 million. kr in the last year just underlined it. So what's the logic? Where is the logic that there is a charge on sugar-free chewing ice cream, but not on chocolate biscuits, and that there is a charge on vitamin bears, but not on ice sticks? It's not on your fingertips. It appears that the right-wing government has disregarded the principles underlying an active and predictable industrial policy. When the principle that it is good to jump over to find out how changes in taxes and taxes affect different groups of society, the toothpaste is out of the tube and the precedent is created to continue on the same path in subsequent budgetary negotiations. In the 2018 budget there were employees at Nidar in Trondheim who were hit. The year before, there were employees at Rygge Airport who were out of work after the government introduced the fare. I think with concern about what industry is next in the budget for 2019. The Workers' Party is concerned that the safety and predictability of both Norwegian enterprises and ordinary workers are weakened. We believe it is time to review all the excise duties, and that a more productive and sensible sugar levy was found. If charges are to be imposed, there are two things that must be clear first: the charges must be predictable and notified in good time, and they must be well justified on a professional basis. At least we in the Labour Party are not going to launch new, creative fees as a result of a horse trade in order to target a budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e974	"See more often to the north." That's how Rolf Jacobsen began to dictate to the north. For many decades, there has been little development and establishment of jobs in the northernmost part of the country. Now many and more look to the north. After five years with the Progress Party in power, there is greater optimism and belief in the future in the north than in a very long time. We see it in the oil and gas industry and in the fisheries and maritime industries – two industries that are going to be extremely important for the nation of Norway and not least northern Norway in the years to come. It contributes to the strength of other industries in the north. We see a clear twist in the activity – where most of it happens in the north. We can show this by looking at concrete numbers and results. There is a very large growth in Norwegian seafood. The export value has increased to steadily new records for five consecutive years, in 2017 with a total export value of 94,5 billion. kr. Since we took over the government offices, the export value has increased by 33 billion. kr. In addition, a new record was set for the first half of this year, with an export value of 48.1 billion. NOK, so 2018 also seems to be a new record year. With three months left of the year, it is far from realistic that Norwegian maritime food exports pass a milestone at the end of the year. We've passed 71 billion these days. kr in maritime food exports, and that's due to us passing the magical limit of 100 billion. kr already before the end of the year. The potential for further growth within seafood is enormous. Therefore, the main focus of policy-making in the future must continue to contribute to the creation of whole-yearly, profitable jobs. The seafood industry creates jobs and contributes to local communities along the coast. Therefore, today’s government’s commitment to growth in the maritime food industry is an important investment in the districts and creates important jobs in District Norway. Not many weeks ago I was at a seafood seminar at Skjervøy in Nord-Troms, the day after the allocation from the Marine Fund was published. The Marine Farm Fund was set up in 2016 to stimulate municipalities to facilitate the aquaculture industry, and this year 2.7 billion will be paid. kr to municipalities that facilitate growth and create jobs in their municipalities. I have rarely seen as many happy and satisfied rapporteurs as that day. They were allocated funds from the Maritime Fund, enabling them to develop their municipalities and provide good welfare services. We're setting conditions for further growth in the north. I want to finish as I started, with Rolf Jacobsen: ‘Look to the north. More often. It's a long way from this country. Most of it is north.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e992	When I hear the articles from the opposition in this debate, I wonder if they have appeared in the wrong national parliament. Yes, that's either that, or they have simply taken posts with them from the time when Stoltenberg was prime minister. For arrows, point in the right direction. Economic growth is solid. At the same time, greenhouse gas emissions are going down. Throughout the country, companies invest more and more, and more and more are coming to work. It's going to go down in District Norway. The unemployment rate is record low, business is booming, and roads are being built and paved to link town and town. Let me do some examples: Marine nutrition has increased exports to $95 billion. kr – an increase of 50 pst. in a period of only four years. That's 36 million meals a day. Marine industries are experiencing a formidable development, and once again we are going to write new heroic stories about the Norwegian adventure at sea. Through development concessions in the salmon industry, we combine our oil technology with the fishing industry and form the basis for more jobs in the districts. Forestry had the best year since 1989 in 2017. It's coming, among other things. the fact that investments in forestry and quays have been double since 2013 and that bio-policy has been designed to increase the value of forest resources. Travel life has seen a record for four years in a row. Since the red-green managed country, the number of foreign tourists has increased by more than two million. In the coastal maritime supply industry, innovative world-class products are supplied and many new electric ferries and fast boats are being produced or ordered. In Norwegian agriculture, less gardening per year is laid down under this government than when the Central Party of Agriculture was put in government. Revenue is increasing and production growth is stronger. The point of this is not to estimate the situation, but to correct the impression that the opposition is trying to draw. The right-wing project is to build a viable welfare society where we take an important management responsibility for future generations. Then we have to create more jobs and qualify people for these jobs. Anyone who can work should work – and no one should go out to date. Therefore, this government prioritises the commitment to knowledge and competence. The expanded government has a clear direction for what we want with Norway. We have new ideas and better solutions that solve real problems that people experience in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1023	During the change of line that followed the speech to Prime Minister Erna Solberg today, it was clear that there was some who did not like to hear about all that goes well in our country. It's fine, but those who contribute to things actually go well and better – and then I don't talk about the government or us here on the Stortinget – deserve to hear that the effort bears fruit, and that it is appreciated. This, of course, does not mean that we should not also talk about the challenges we face, and things that should still be better – of course not. That's exactly what's why most of us are sitting in this room: working to make things better for the people of our country. But it's actually going to be possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. It's possible to enjoy what's going well, while we're folding up our sleeves to continue to improve what needs to be improved. I want to share my great joy over a matter that is good for our country. Of course, I'm talking about professional and vocational education. We need a lot of good professionals in the years to come, so it's so happy that even more people now choose a profession. Half of those entering higher education are now opting for vocational education. That is why it is so gratifying that even more are awarded apprenticeships and that more are completing their vocational training. Through the vocational training, there were very many good measures implemented and launched in the previous period. I will not dwell so much on it, but I am very grateful that the government and the Christian People's Party prioritised this so high. What makes me even more happy is that we don't lean back and say we're satisfied with the progress. There's more that can and must be done. In the future, we will ensure that both the important structural changes that are taking place and make vocational training more practical and relevant to the life of the students. Students will have to specialise in the past, and we will provide more opportunities both for re-election and for further education, for those who would like it. However, one of the most important things is to inspire even more people to choose a profession, to make sure that even more people have their eyes on the amazing opportunities offered by the profession. It is equally important to ensure that even more people complete, and one of the most important steps to succeed is to ensure that students have an apprenticeship place to go. Finally, we need help from and cooperation with the business community. Because even though it's now taking care of more people, there's still too many people outside. Those who are not apprentices today are missing out on important work. And when the companies themselves are screaming for skilled labour, they must also contribute to the completion of their education, by opening the doors and giving space. I would therefore challenge both companies and the public to throw themselves at the important job of giving all the students a place to learn, and not say they're satisfied until everyone gets a place. At least that's not what I'm going to do, and this is what I'm sure we're going to do together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1040	We know that cultural experiences make sense to people in everyday life and develop both individuals and society. Free art and cultural life are inextricably linked to a strong democracy. This has been clearly remembered when a right-wing government in Hungary first shut down its Ministry of Culture, and then began to stop performances with content they don't like. That is why we must defend free art as free expression in a democracy. To do that, we need strong professional cultural management, and that's exactly why so many people in cultural life are now afraid, because culture might have to be split up and moved into counties. But SV, when we are going to deal with task migration in this session, must be quite clear that we are going to put the freedom and quality of art first. So culture and democracy are linked. That is why we must also have a democratic cultural policy. We must ensure that everyone, regardless of their wallet and address, has access to good cultural experiences. But not everyone is allowed to participate in our rich cultural life today. Those with at least one of us do not have equal opportunities to be entertained and challenged by art and culture. In meeting the growing differences between people, we need a cultural policy for the many, so that more people can participate in our cultural life. There shall be SV working for this session. Firstly, we will work to ensure that all children and young people have access to leisure, activities and cultural experiences. For example, we want to do this. support counties and municipalities to create local cultural and activity maps, providing free or discounted cultural experiences. Secondly, we will fight for a cultural school for the many, by introducing a max prize so that more can afford, and by reintroducing the cultural school hour – as this government has taken away – to make the cultural school accessible to more people. And third, SV has proposed a national lift for the libraries, which is to be dealt with this session. The libraries provide equal access to culture and knowledge, regardless of wallet and address. The libraries are developing rapidly, but there are considerable differences between municipalities. That's why a billion earmarked for libraries is needed to reach even more layers of the population with knowledge and culture. Finally, if we are to have a rich and varied cultural life in the future as well, those who create and present the good cultural experiences must have a wage to live off and a safe working life. Therefore, SV this session will work for stronger social rights for the self-employed and increased scholarships. Everyone deserves good cultural experiences, regardless of wallet and address.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1063	I have my debut as a representative this week and during this debate. From the debate here in the Chamber, I can see that there are quite different views on how we are doing in Norway and where we are going. When we look forward to what's going to give us growth, the answer for me is that it's a business. Lives one in the districts and believes that the state or public arrangements will be the rescue, I think one will be very disappointed. No, the answer probably lies with the local industries, with the local initiative and with the local individuals, in the local enterprises. I think maybe this debate has gone a lot on how we're going to use the values, and not how we're going to create them. The Jelaua platform outlines six main challenges. The first says something about the need for change, the need for growth, the need for new jobs and for more legs to stand on. As a coastal dweller, there are two things I want to focus on. First, it is taxation of the aquaculture industry. I record that some people are more than eager to find new tax opportunities — not just against agriculture, but generally. We who live on the coast see that the government's solution to a farm fund has actually given something concrete back to the municipalities that have made the area available. Although the scheme has some weaknesses, it also has some strengths. One of the forces is actually that there was money for the municipalities that have done a job, made space available, and there were not only beautiful words, investigations and hollow promises. Once the Storting has ordered a NOU to look at how any land-based tax or other arrangements can be set up, it must be remembered that this is an industry operating in the districts and giving values to the districts. The solution chosen must be designed to ensure the further development of this industry and the jobs it represents. Another thing that I think is important is the job of getting more of the salmon transport from car to boat. The government has put more emphasis on ports, among other things. in my hometown, Rørvik, but also in Hitra. It allows for a change of this transport. In order to get started with the transfer of salmon transport from car to boat, I believe that I must be arranged in such a way that the shipping companies will start such routes as soon as possible. It will provide Norwegian jobs both on land and at sea. I think this is a necessary development, as the objectives of the industry are ambitious, with a five-fold as a possible goal. In sum, I think these two things are important. What is needed in order to generate growth across Norway is the key issue. Business is central to my answer. It is not just an increase in public rights and public obligations that can be prioritised and debated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1080	The anti-skreem image has been drawn here for two days, by a Norwegian citizen and business that is not familiar with. It helps to undermine the confidence that the prime minister so wisely formulated that we have to work together to keep our senses, but that we are chosen to rule this country. Ask people, ask a business, ask an organization, find a few, if someone, who thinks we've taken a step back today from when we had a red-green government here in the country. We will always find those who see that we may be able to do something more and improve the framework conditions even better, but where I am going, the review melody is that things are going well in this country, we are doing well in Norway, and we have a good country to live in. We have done this by embarking on comprehensive reforms that address the fundamental challenges we face. And yes, such processes can be challenging, and they definitely lead us to think about new and solving tasks in new ways. And it can shit. But we feel that creativity has also been seen in municipalities, county councils and business. Before the climate and the environment, we have achieved a historical level of ambition through the Climate Communication that will support real action in relation to greenhouse gas emissions and measures to meet the climate challenges we face. Of course, we can be better. The right has ambitions that Norway will continue to be a driver of important climate change, which we see will create green growth and green, resilient jobs for climate and the environment. We see municipalities that make good and ambitious climate plans to achieve our common climate goals, as Bærum has done. And we see county councils challenging uplifted lines in the purchasing code to achieve the best possible supply of climate action for speedboats, as Trondelag has now done. Therefore, we can look beyond a business that really wants to exploit the opportunities that lie in creating the new green jobs, and technologies that we record that it is our environment that finds technology for battery operation in shipping, it is our environment that creates innovation in marine wind, it is our environment that innovates before farming and aquaculture, and it is our environment that explores its resources for mineral extraction and storage of CO 2. The year we're in, we're going to be looking at it in several ways. Right will continue its work to create resilient societies this year as well. It also involves an ambitious climate policy that focuses on and facilitates actions that work, in line with the industry's innovative capacity, firmly anchor that we are doing it to create the good society for us now and for those who come after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1102	Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. No more women have worked full-time, and the combination of working life and family life is becoming increasingly easier as more people have access to kindergartens and a good school leisure service. The government has refuted the left-hand predictions that equality would be put in reverse: the proportion of children in kindergarten has not fallen, on the contrary, we see a gradual increase. Contrary to claims, cash support takes less, no more, from 2016 to 2018, the proportion of cash support users fell by 5.5 percentage points. There are 31,000 more female leaders in 2017 than when we took over in 2013, and there is an increase in the number of female directors. The proportion of female professors has increased by approx. 1 pst. per year for the last 10 years. In the state sector, 56 pst. by the leaders of women, but of course we also want more women in leadership positions in business. For us, equality is about equal opportunities, not about everyone choosing the same. But we're earned that at some point we're actually picking similar patterns, so we can break some of the traditional patterns. Equality starts already in kindergarten and at school. Our sons need male role models, and therefore the government is putting a better gender balance among kindergarten and kindergarten teachers. Equality is also about men in health. Users and relatives also appreciate being able to talk to male health workers. The Men in Health project has given high attention to gender in services and is one of the most successful measures to recruit men in the health and care sector in Norway. We know that boys have a number of challenges that could in many cases become smaller if they had sought help earlier. The title ‘health sister’ is an out-of-date title. It can lead to young boys refusing to go to the Health Sister’s office. It may also prevent male nurses from choosing this specialisation. That's why we've changed the title of the nurse. The right and government are working with policy frameworks and instruments to make Norway even more equal. An important addition to this is communication and awareness-raising, and I want to commend the Minister for Industry and the Minister for Gender Equality who encourages business to take on solid patterns and attitudes. They challenge norms and structures that cannot be changed by a single pen stroke. Time and time again I hear unfortunately the Tritebergstuen from the Arbeiderpartiet talk down the gender equality work in Norway. She also ignores the importance of mind-creating work. We can't just get rid of a culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1121	Year after year, we hear that this government is also saying that a society of small differences is good. Year after year, while this government has been sitting, the differences have increased — and these are the bad differences. I'm getting quite tired of both hearing and seeing all the crocodile tears crying for the poor kids. I am also quite tired of hearing a one-sided talk about the work line, if you are not willing to implement a proper work line that allows everyone to get a job in the labour market we have. Then we have to give that competence to people who are not competent enough for some employers to hire them. We have to be patient about that. The second is that there are people who are actually sick. Illness exists. It's a fairy tale that for everyone it's good to go to work anyway. No, that's not it. Some people even need to be allowed to have security and time in their homes, with their kids, while they are in a difficult life situation. Child poverty cannot only be remedied by the fact that more people come to work. Many people can get to work, and SV has a lot of suggestions about it. But we can start with the three b's, because we have to raise the income of these families -- the three b's that I'm talking about are child's, child's, and housing support -- and it's important that we do that. SV is very much for free SFO, and we are very much for cheap kindergartens and free core time. But someone has kids who are teenagers, and then you have to have incomes, so that you can also support the kids. I think it's pretty hard to be a child in these families, but I actually think it's even harder to be a teenager than being a three-year-old. It's because a teen life requires that you participate in society in a completely different way from a young child's. If we increase child-responsiveness – especially for families with many children and for lonely dependants – we meet very well those who need the most money, and then we have to close the hole that allows municipalities to draw the child-responsiveness of social assistance. I don't think the Storting really know how much money there is, but I've asked the Minister of Finance, and she's calculated it's about. Three hundred million. kr. We're taking from the poorest families of children, because they don't get the value of child welfare. Everyone gets, except for the poorest! Three hundred million. NOK – there is a lot of money, you guys. Then it is not so nice that these families and these children live in poverty. So if you want to do something about it, you actually have to do something about it and not make the rich richer and the poorer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1134	The installation from SV was about a lot of b's, but not so much about a for work – it's going to be a debate we can take another time. This has been a rather expensive persuasion debate so far, I must say. Every time the representatives of the Workers' Party go up to the pulpit, the taximeter starts going. They have a lot of good ideas about what to spend money on, but not so many suggestions on where to get this money. Because that's how the Workers' Party is not talking about, is how we're going to pay for all the public expenditure that we have to bear in the years that come. We are facing a coming wave of old age, new technology in industry and in the service sector and climate change. Many of the solutions to these questions are precisely in the process of creating value in the private sector. We're on our way -- more jobs are created, unemployment goes down, and growth goes up. Innovation is being pursued, and new industries are still creating new markets. The most important thing we can do here in the Storting in the next few years is to facilitate even more value creation and secure more jobs in the private sector. The government is betting on business. We invest in new knowledge, in transport, innovation and research. We've already reduced business costs by 15 billion. kr, and in the next few years we will reduce the reporting burden on business by a further 10 billion. kr. We're going to carry out the journey of time, continue to increase skills at school and in the workplace, and we're going to continue to lower taxes for both those who create the jobs and those who work. This is how we create a sustainable welfare society. The Norwegian economy needs to be transformed in order to enable more people to contribute to the State budget rather than just living off the State budget. Unfortunately, it has become the Workers' Party's registration plate, not only through the debate we have had over the past 24 hours, but also over the last few years. In fact, most ideas are to be lived by the government budget, and the bills are to be paid from taxpayers' pockets. Time and again, we've asked how we're going to finance well-being, and then we get the same answer: taxes have to be increased. Since 2013, we have reduced taxes and taxes by 24 billion. kr. The solution of the Workers' Party is to increase taxes, increase costs for enterprises and public expenditure. This is not a sustainable policy that provides for the necessary transformation that the Norwegian economy must undergo. We can't just treasure ourselves for better well-being, well-being must also be created.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1148	Once again, the wolf has caused enormous and irreparable damage throughout the summer and autumn, inside and outside the wolf zone. There are so many wolf and so many horrible incidents affecting grazing users, hunters, outdoors and the local population in wolves exposed areas, that the government has to get its eyes up and start doing something. In the north-east valley, outside the wolf zone in pasture-prioritised areas, about 400 wolf sheep were taken in the summer. It's a terrible number, but it's not a surprising number. That's a number we could expect. We saw that the attacks started at the beginning of the summer, we knew that the government had made “nearly” to take out the wolf before that time, and we knew that it was going to be a disaster. At the beginning of September, a hunter was out and trained his dog in my own municipality, Åsnes. He then experienced that the dog was attacked by a flock of wolves only a few meters – as close as five meters – from him. Luckily he managed to save his dog because he was present, but unfortunately it is not the only event. Since that time several dogs have been taken by the wolf, and at the latest on Tuesday when we were here and opened the Stortinget, a dog was taken by the wolf outside the wolf zone at Bruvoll in the North Odal. This doesn't go any further. This is government going to have to start doing something about it. The wolf's stock target has been reached a long time ago. The size has set a clear and distinct stocking target of four to six young people per year, where three are to be whole Norwegian. The previous count showed that we had 10.5 young people. Nevertheless, the Minister for Climate and Environment shows a very lack of action and no willingness to do anything about the matter. What is frustrating is that the Left is allowed to carry on a protection policy and make the wolf zone a reserve, without the Right and the Advance Party taking responsibility and making sure to knock it down. If we're going to be able to reach the wolf's target, we have to take out more wolves, and we have to take out wolves within the wolf zone. The Prime Minister is sitting here today. I really hope she hears what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1163	The centre party fights for security in people's everyday lives. Security in people's everyday lives is about knowing that you get help when you need it, no matter where you live in Norway. Unfortunately, it's not everyday for a lot of people today. The representative of Angell Gimse from the Trondelag has, in several speeches in this debate, presented unhesitating self-criticism of the government's efforts in terms of police. The representative should cut himself out and instead listen to those who actually work in the police today. The local team leader of the Police Union in her own county said to the newspaper OP 30. August this year: ‘The policy reform is a clear and clear reform and is largely about centralisation and cost cuts’. He went on to say: ‘The government has instructed us to build a swollen top management level.’ At the same time, the local loner has been demolished, and he has not received the new position he thought was needed to ensure security and preparedness in his area. This is the everyday life of police Norway after the police reform very many places in Norway. Trustees in 11 of the 12 police districts say it's a crisis. Major assault cases remain lying down, police officers stop, and the work force is skyrocketing. In my own area, in East police district, there are over 7 000 cases, many of them very serious, waiting. That's an increase of 50 pst. last year. People don't get through on the phone either. At the centralized operating centre in Ski, one in the last few months has had twice as many unanswered calls to the emergency number 112 as required. The well-functioning grenade office has been cut and emptied for content, and they have been emptied for people. In Lørenskog, the Länsmannskontoret had a majority of 50 employees. When I visited the Länsmannskontoret a few weeks ago, the three were left to cover a municipality with 40,000 inhabitants. Nor is it right, as the Prime Minister said today, that the structure is now solid. No, last night it was found that the East Police Commissioner will break the decision to strengthen the Bjørklangen Länsmannskontoret. Instead of the 32 employees that one was promised, it is now assumed that there might be one head of service again. The locals are alarming, the local politicians are alarming, and the locals are doing the same. The size has decided that all remaining LEN offices should be strengthened. That's what the Center Party will fight for, both in the Bear's Serpent and in the rest of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1188	Women and men that we send out on behalf of our country will be safe in the field. When you're out on military missions, you have to be able to trust that we, as the maggot and the government, have provided the best possible security. But what we see now is that the Right and Advance Party in the Government are planning to privatize the maintenance of decisive weapons and vehicles for the Defense, for the Army. In the Army it is that today's advanced vehicle has both connection and weapon systems and monitoring included, so if you are to take the professional assignment, you have to know and know how to handle it, on all parts of the vehicles. It is only the defence itself that today has the opportunity in Norway. That's why it's most alarming when the Right Party and the Advance Party operate ideological privatisation in almost every field and are willing to do so even at the expense of our own security. Anniken Huitfeldt was yesterday that the Workers' Party is clear that we need to have control of this part of our preparedness in Norway. For the Workers' Party, it is obvious that skilled professionals do work that brings quality to us others, and then we have to make sure that the skilled professionals we have can continue to do that work. But unfortunately, it doesn't seem to be the prime concern when decisions are made in the most market liberalist government in Norway's history. The Youth of the Advance Party was formerly this fall out in the Evening Post and said that you wanted to privatize everything. I'm not sure if you really realized that you're winning through, privatising part of the Defense. Maybe you at FpU team thought you'd keep it out of the way. So it now looks like a liberalist like Tor Mikkel Wara in government gets a breakthrough that was unimaginable when he was the FpU leader and the front of liberalism in the Progress Party. It is at least certain that the Workers' Party is going to demand that the government actually intervene in this matter. Erna Solberg is here now, and instead of spending so much time in the future on boasting of my own policies, I would rather go out and talk to the people who are working on maintenance. They are willing to take a talk and explain why this is an important issue for the security of people sent out on behalf of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1201	The regional reform has been addressed in this debate in the past. It might not be so strange, all the time there are few who defend the content and the solutions forcefully. Even I take it up again because I have more faith in reason than in the prestige. Regional reform would contribute to the decentralisation of power and services, that is to say. Instead, we see that power is being shifted away and over into remote, squirming regions, regions constructed according to what must be the benevolence of the government parties. That's how More and Romesdal and Rogaland continue as today, which is good, while other states join forces. This is a null logic demonstration behind the project. ‘Functional regions’ were also mantra. Even I belong in Eastfold, and I had not thought in my wildest imagination that I would be living in an administrative region consisting of Buskerud, Akershus and Østfold, a region that is barely connected, which hardly has anything in common with the Oslofjord tunnel. The government justifies many of its reforms with the need for simplification and clean-up. When a job was first done with a new regional breakdown, why not clean up the regional state and provide for coincident and logical boundaries between statesmen, labour regulators, hubs, criminal services, police, health companies or home security? No, you're creating new boundaries. This was just someone. In the Week, there is also a plethora of demarcations within Bufetat, criminal services, home security, as I said, and three customs districts – and we can continue. At least it's not simplification. How to make a functioning rule of the people with engaged citizens out of this is completely incomprehensible to me. This thus becomes a reform which neither contributes to a more active rule of the people nor to the decentralisation of services. On the contrary, I think it increases the abstinence, increases the confusion, increases the distance. Probably we're left with more bureaucracy and less popular government. I don't doubt that the Left and Christian People's Party had good intentions with the regional reform, but somewhere along the way, it was completely derailed, precisely because you started at the wrong end: you didn't choose to see the whole, you didn't choose to start with the tasks, and you didn't choose to do good investigations and processes. Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold are not perfect, but they do the job. Together, the three have little or nothing in common. It says so when the new regional leadership in the Gulf is going to sit in Oslo – or Lysaker, to be accurate – and in that way draining skills out of today's counties and increasing pressure in an area that is already heavily under pressure. Once again, I want to encourage logic and reason, which I know this hall is well equipped with. But unfortunately, this hall also has a tendency to let the prestige win. I ask that the Hall and government parties with the Left, and the Christian People's Party, take time, take a step back and give a forward-looking regional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1221	In the debate on the throne, it is natural to highlight the link between hometown and national policy. Bergen has gained control of the economy, much thanks to a very competent financial agency from the Christian People's Party, an urban councillor from the Workers' Party and good bureaux from the Left. But they are experiencing major challenges today when they are constantly being imposed on new demands without adequate funding. In particular, the requirement for teacher's density and staffing standards and pedagogical norms in kindergartens are perceived as extremely challenging when sufficient money is not supplied. Good growth is the best investment. This is why the Labour Party prioritises the local economy. Children will be seen, and everyone should have the opportunity to develop their talent. Therefore, the Stortinget decided to demand teacher’s density in school and staffing standards in kindergarten. Being seen by your teacher or by the adults to whom you have good relations means far, far more and is a much better resource use than all the support measures that we put in today when the problems have escalated. In the long term, we are sure that increasing teacher density and improved staffing will lessen the need for exceptional measures. But before we get there, we should listen to the municipalities and give them the economic space they need to mannify and come on the offensive professionally. When people experience that what we as national politicians say and adopt is not in harmony with what they experience in everyday life, we are involved in undermining the legitimacy of our own political system and the trust that has been mentioned many times in these days. We have it in essence, but it is also fragile – if we do not take good care of it. I want to take this opportunity to also highlight another municipality in Hordaland, Mountain. They have always been innovative and capable of thinking new. They've created what they call "fixed track" to work for immigrants. They use the funds that the community normally allocates to two years of introductory training to establish practical places in the municipality. Immigrants or refugees start directly on work-related issues. They undertake to participate in Norwegian leisure courses. The result is that they learn Norwegian quickly. They understand our working life faster, and they also become part of the necessary networks. These are also examples of good Labour Party policies, of which we would like much more.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1233	‘It’s enough now’. Then I don't think about the persuasion debate. No, it is the Workers' Party Vice-Chairman Hadia Tajik's opinion on the so-called Aleris case, where the Trade Union has notified one of the largest private actors in the welfare of serious breaches of the working time regulations of the Working Environment Act, with working weeks of up to 120 hours in 14-hour watches. One person had worked 206 hours continuously. Some of those who protested were fired. These are carers responsible for vulnerable people in the field of drugs, psychiatry and disabled people. Such working hours run smoothly. People get tired. That's why we have the Working Environment Act – to protect the health of ordinary workers. And these are also people who work with people with special needs. The next question that should then be asked is what worn-out employees mean for the quality of the services they receive. We're talking like we're talking about people with problems related to drugs, psychiatry and disability. Then you might wonder how it is at all possible for an employer to operate with such extreme working hours, but not only that – also avoid expenses that other employers have for pay, overtime, retirement, holiday pay, employer’s pay, sick pay, etc. The answer is, of course, the old, well-known trick, which we know from past times and from other industries, and which unfortunately seems to have got its cleanness: those who do the jobs are not called employees, as they really are, but are defined as hired consultants, with each of their individual enterprises – contractors, which we used to call them before. The Labour Party does not accept such conditions in Norwegian working life. It has to be cleaned up. That's why our Vice President Hadia Tajik says: ‘It’s enough now, enough commercialisation and rough work.’ Aleris is not the only ones, but I mention them because they chose to send us an e-mail on the Stortinget last Monday. Ecocrim has not chosen to investigate, but the e-mail seems to be formulated to make us think that it is all right. There is nothing there about it starting on 7 January when 26 so-called consultants demand a refund of 35 million kroner. NOK for unpaid hours, pensions, holiday pay, etc. We'll have to wait and see what the result is, but I can already say the following: In the case of the Workers' Party, such working conditions and, in particular, not in enterprises which carry out important care tasks on behalf of the public and the community money are never met. Additional stringent requirements on quality of service and decent working conditions must then be introduced. Unfortunately, there is no trace of such public procurement requirements in the throne speech of the right-wing government – so the matter was not important enough for the three right-wing parties, but it is important for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1251	Tooth health is perhaps one of the most undervalued political fields in the Storting. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants to lift dental health this autumn and has promoted its own representative proposal on it. If you want to look at the differences between people, you can often just look at their teeth. Fortunately, there has been a significant improvement in dental health in the population over the past 30 years. During the Stoltenberg government, several groups received free or cheaper dental treatment. Nevertheless, many people feel that they still do not have the opportunity to receive the necessary treatment. The 2017 statistical central agency report Social inequality in the use of healthcare reveals that there are significant variations in the use of dental services based on differences in education and income. Good over 80 pst. the population has been with dental practitioners for the last two years. It also means that many have not been there. Of those with an income of less than NOK 200000 and an age of over 45, almost 20 are declared. that they have bad dental health. Among the unemployed, one in four states that they have an unmet need for dental treatment, as well as disability, and students are above average. Very many of these report poor advice as a reason for not having sought treatment. The poor network of Norway wrote in a consultation opinion to the State Budget for 2018: ‘In Norway today, most people have good teeth, so it becomes very stigmatizing to lack more teeth or to have large infections. Too many people find it difficult to get a job." The poor network also describes a situation where people who could have saved a tooth choose to pull it. As they point out, saving a tooth can cost up to NOK 30 000, but if one just pulls it and does not replace it, it costs about NOK 30 000. NOK 1500. The Pensioners Association has said this: ‘Fears of high dental costs make some people not looking for a dentist. It may result in poorer physical and mental health and social isolation.’ The Dental Association has pointed out that the government has cut over 300 million in total. kr in the dental social security scheme since 2014, which in fact confirms.no. This summer, the government has assessed new cuts of up to 100 million. kr i the support for dental regulation. Then it goes the wrong way. And then there's a bigger difference. When the Minister of Health in his speech yesterday in the throne debate, he said he was proud that the government had invested in drugs and psychiatry, and that one had reintroduced the golden rule, even though it is far from being fulfilled, I can promise that cutting in dentistry also means cutting in mental health. Therefore, if everyone is to have real access to the necessary dental treatment, public responsibility must be increased. Today, there is a great disparity in the use of dental services, and personal finances are the main cause of this. Increased emphasis on dental health will therefore also make a good contribution to equalising social differences. The Workers' Party has put forward proposals to do something about this. I hope the rest of the Greatness will support us in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1274	It has been interesting to follow up on this persuasion debate, because it has shown that the Workers' Party seems neither to prioritise nor to know what they themselves think in school policy. In 2015, Jonas Gahr Støre said that school is the most important single matter in the municipal elections. Now, three years later, the representative does not mention Gahr Støre a single school action in his post, and when he presented the seven main issues of the Workers' Party in the municipal elections a few weeks ago, he did not reach knowledge and school on the top seven list. This is reflected in the range of key school policy issues in which the Workers' Party changes its mind every two years. First they're against the absenteeism limit, then it's for, and then they're against it again. They're to make demands on teachers' skills, and they're against them. The most surprising thing for me was when the government before the summer put forward proposals for a duty for the schools to prioritize reading, writing and billing in the early years of high school. We should give that priority because we know that it's the tools children need to master all the subjects and to thrive at school. But then the Workers' Party was suddenly opposed again, because instead of focusing on basic skills and early efforts, the Workers' Party would give the same priority to all subjects and all skills. Together with the Christian People's Party, the government has now tripled the number of teachers who receive continuing education. We focus on early work by employing more teachers and by investing in initial training and more pedagogues in kindergartens. But the most exciting thing about everything is that we've now started the biggest reform in Norwegian school in 15 years, that's a renewal of all curricula. Schools shall have fewer objectives of competence, more depth learning and greater opportunities for teachers to vary teaching and stimulate curiosity. With the innovation, we also get a valuelift in school, because the school has to form and train. I'm glad that more and less students learn from falling away, but what we're talking too little about is that Norwegian school reproduces social differences. If you are a boy with low-school parents when you start school, you are 1.5 years behind the other children in language development. Often these knowledge holes get bigger and not less during school because we don't bet early enough. Early effort does not mean that small children should sit quietly on the desk in front of the board. Early effort means capturing those who need extra help, using different practical and pedagogical methods and playing for students to learn how to read, write and calculate and get the good mastery feeling. If there is one thing the four non-socialist parties have in common, it is the understanding and respect that people and children are different, and the school – as society else – should adapt to the children, not the other way around. Schools that succeed give the children the skills they need to master the work life, but also the security they need to master everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1291	I have listened with great interest to the debate yesterday and through today, and to me it seems that the government party does not want a real debate on the issues. My colleague, Svein Harberg, was busy with the black measurement from the opposition. He thought it was difficult to feel that in the opposition his version of the reform that is going on. Then I think there's a little question about a chatter out in the district. If we have the confidence of the Storting, we take the feedback we get seriously, and not least that we accept the feedback from those who are not happy, and take it up here in the hall. He meant that everything was on duty and wasn't at all due worry. He said the near-police reform is on the verge. There is something about the police reform that is good and necessary, but it is a poor comfort to those who have experienced in the last few months that the police have no resources to move out to serious events. It's serious when the police out in the districts don't know what they're doing. Or as one of the lenders I'm talking to said, There's little comfort in hearing that there should be two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants, when our everyday life is that we can't get into one per 1,000, and when I feel that those who have done a good preventative job and have had fewer expressions are punished for it in the distribution of teams. The representative Harberg was busy with how to strengthen the confidence of the people as elected representatives, for one should not take the confidence of giving. I can't be written anymore. But I think the most important thing to keep trust is that we're honest with the challenges we're facing, and that we're spreading the situation as he's perceived in the grassroots. Another representative, Terje Breivik from the Left, could tell us that the opposition was only busy by: ‘Black measurement of the state of things, rehearsed phrases to enhance a picture of centralisation, a colder society and a brutalised working life; [[...]] The representative must be able to listen to the truth. In his speech he discussed what happened under the red-green government, and could tell about centralisation, extra use of oil resources for the public sector, daily flight work places and steaming. Maybe there's more than one person who's got some rehearsed phrases. The maintenance run that Breivik thought one was about to take again is for the county roads in Hordaland alone today at 8.2 billion. kr and in Sogn and Fjordane of SEK 4.7 billion. kr. The centre party has proposed an additional state road package for the follow-up on the county roads. Where is this bet from the government party? There are many such examples I could have taken, but three minutes goes by quickly – so I'll come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1313	I noticed that in his speech this year the Prime Minister also spoke of the need to develop a sustainable welfare society. For the Centre Party, «sustainable welfare society» also means that we must succeed in integrating. This means that we must conduct a responsible and regulated labour immigration policy and a fair asylum and refugee policy, where those who have the right to protection get it, and not those who do not. We cannot accept more than we can handle, and we must take care of those who are already part of Norway. The opposite will lead to stigmatisation. It is therefore good that the Minister of Education and Integration is now present. For the Central Party, language is one of the most important measures here. Language is one of the keys to social understanding. It is the key to the labour market and therefore the key to employment opportunities. A basic human need is to participate in working life, feel belonging, feel that you can contribute and not least be seen. Success in this is integration in practice. Immigrants who live around the country meet Norwegian language and society in a completely different way than if they were to live in already immigrant areas. Widespread settlement is a good tool for a sustainable welfare society with well-integrated people in local communities and through it into the nation. A prerequisite for scattered settlement throughout the country and thus integrated people in society, regardless of their background, is that there is a diversity of jobs, services, business, schools, kindergartens, leisure activities and, in particular, lively communities that create well-being and belonging throughout the country – seeing individuals. A good community economy is therefore a prerequisite for allowing communities to grow and build on their local benefits. Municipalities are the tools of their citizens to achieve good social development. In this way, citizens must be given the opportunity to develop their societies – build well-being, provide a secure framework, be innovative and pass democracy on. The policy divides are not least reflected in the views of the various parties on the role of the local government sector. The centre party will build society from below and will therefore spread power, residence, jobs, capital and competences. The centre party wants people to have the opportunity to live where they want to. Indeed, the potential for value creation is distributed throughout the country. Then we have to make sure that there are people across the country who see these possibilities and not least use them. This is how we ensure increased competitiveness and not least value creation. Unfortunately, government policy is leading development in the wrong direction. Workplaces, preparedness and services close to people throughout the country will, in the view of the Centre Party, be a key to all being able to participate, be seen, feel belonging locally and nationally and thereby contribute through jobs to value creation and not least to a sustainable welfare society in the future. The Prime Minister noted that demographic changes require system improvements, not just new money, and the Central Party will continue to vote against centralisation reforms and for decentralisation reforms. We have support for this in the population, and it will increase opportunities when resources are distributed across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1330	Close police reform should strengthen local police work and provide more accessible police across the country. I have been involved in the available police since the closure of the Länsmannskontoret in my home municipality and Follo Police District was established as a test piece for the police reform. Follo police never got the necessary resources for local personnel, and the confidence of the police in Follo sank. Therefore, at the time of the damage, I delivered a hearing opinion on behalf of the local government asking that the freed resources go to better and more local police. It never happened. The new East Police District, consisting of Follo, Romerike and Eastfold, is well behind the target of two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants. The chief of police has gone out and said he's worried about the funding. The police can't do their job. Many matters remain unexplored, and it queues up in Follo District Court. The right-wing government promised more police where people live, but broke this promise already in the state budget for 2018. They didn't come up with any more police posts, but they've underfunded the police districts. This is a breach of the agreement on the reform. Proximity isn't strengthened. The reform lacks local anchoring. It was precisely that people feared and the police were concerned when they responded to the poll on police reform. I remember that the Minister of Justice of the Progress Party replied in 2017 that he thought probably people would be safer on the reform when they began to see the results. Now we see the results. The people were right. There are at least police in some of the densely populated areas in Norway. Then it is alarming, as the representative Jonas Gahr Støre said to the Day newspaper on 2 October, that the only thing the judiciary says in the speech about the police reform is that it should be continued, while both the police and the municipalities have doubts about the situation. The working party wouldn't do it this way. We would take the time to implement the reform properly, listen to people, police and local politicians and adjust the course when necessary. We know that visible police are important for trust, prevention, accessibility, preparedness and response time. It is serious that this bar for the police is being undermined.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1344	What we hear in this debate is that the right parties are continuing what I want to call a historical line. Now, in 2018, they say what they've always done – they're trying to define what sustainable welfare schemes require. I notice that they use the term ‘welfare schemes’ and not ‘welfare countries’. That, of course, requires soberness, as it is called. We all have to be naked. But what is the undertone of the right hand party argument? Well, it's that those who are going to be naked are those in Norway who are workers, and those who need it the most. They must be the 'nocturnal', that's what the word is. And then even the word "community" comes out. I heard the representative, Eskeland from the Right, say here in the village: we must have an association with the business community, and people must be the nights. It's the right hand party's understanding of the context of society. The sustainability of the Community culture has two words: ‘tax relief’ and ‘accommodation’. They've always spoken like this in this hall. There is rarely, or almost never, humility and understanding of how parts of the population feel and are affected by this. Right now, there are three examples that are very central to the current political situation. I understand that the Minister of Finance has announced that one should reduce the ability of municipalities to collect property taxes. The Progress Party, yes – but the Advance Party of Local Governments decides to increase municipal fees to compensate for the losses, of course. It is typical for the Progress Party to behave that way – quite typical. Just like in the toll case -- they say one thing, do something else. That's the Progress Party code. Retirement – no, we can't give that from the first dollar. It's not gonna work because it's too expensive. However, tax relief in the hundred rebillionaire krone class in the previous period is not too expensive. Is it not possible to get it explained by someone before this debate is over, what is the basis of such a political philosophy, when we know that these cuts go out on those who sit at the bottom of the table, and who need it the most – and which I want to characterize as petty? This is the hollowness of the right hand side argument. Therefore, they must be rejected as old-fashioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1357	Right will have stronger cities and living districts. We want businesses and communities with freedom and the ability to govern their own development, communities with creativity and growth power, more municipalities that say yes, than those that say no, municipalities that reward and promote innovation and development, rather than brake. We want cities and towns connected more closely, as we now see in the government and the Christian People's Party's journey. The government transfers power and authority to larger and more robust municipalities. Local initiative is rewarded and taxes on Norwegian jobs are reduced. The most important thing that politicians can do is to facilitate growth and value creation across the country and ensure that our country has a lot of bones to stand on. Where the Center Party sees the restrictions in District Norway, sees the Right Opportunities, because it's going well in District Norway. It is enough to mention record high exports from the seafood industry, a tourism that flourishes, a forestry that last year had its best year since 1989, an agriculture with fewer farms that is now being laid down than under the red-green government, a maritime supplier industry that develops world-class technology and products. Norway has changed. That is why we must also have a policy for a new era. In the last few days, we've been able to read the column and split down on the Central Party's reversing plans for the government's reforms. It seems a little forward-looking. We have implemented a municipal reform that is in the process of giving us more and more municipalities, which will be able to meet the future with competence and capacity to provide good services. We are also in the process of implementing a regional reform – there has been a lot of debate about it. In the South, we see the development of a new part of the country, a new Agder, a historic movement that links housing and labour markets, a stronger commitment to education and research, stronger business activities, good measures for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, and not least significantly stronger cooperation across the old counties. It gives you new possibilities. It's like our upcoming adviser in new Agder, Tine Sundtoft, said when she was to present the plan for a new Blue Competence Center south: «Hard knowledge environment in the east has found the tone with the strong marine business environment in the west. Together, they will take a clear position for increased value creation and employment based on the watercourses and coastal areas of the continent. – A gift package to build the new Agder.” What South now sees, is a new part of the country, with new opportunities and a new give.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1377	The inheritance after five years of right-wing rule is a Norway with greater differences and less opportunities. We can now establish that right-wing policy works: cut in welfare makes everyday life the worst, worse. Cut into the treasure of the richest have made them even richer. And the government has measured that tax cuts are good. Their crown argument has been to cut the taxes of the richest give more jobs. – Had it only been true. Recently, an SSB report concluded that the billion cuts that were put in place by the right-hand government have not led to major investments in new jobs. And we do well to see some sort of report confirming their description of the bad wealth tax, the one tax that ensures that everyone is involved and contributes to the welfare state – not just ordinary workers. Tax havens were to be the success recipe of the right government in several workplaces. In reality, there were no more jobs left, and there was a tougher everyday life for all those who received welfare protection to finance the tax cuts. In Norway today, 101 000 children live in households with persistently low incomes. They can't afford to play organized football or go for birthdays. For them, the growing inequality manifests itself in shame — shame in not being able to afford to be part of the community, shame in being born in poverty. Their everyday life did not improve when the government cut off the living quarters or in the children's allowance to the workers. And they had less opportunity to take back the inequality when the government provided more expensive kindergartens. But the right-wing government not only affects those who have the least, it also affects ordinary workers. Since the Advance Party and the Right took over the government power, they have introduced taxes on job travel, tax on eating at work and taxes on losing a job. This government is constantly showing an impressive imagination when it comes to finding new taxes and taxes for people in ordinary jobs. Ordinary people have to pay more taxes. The richest, many of them Right and Advance Party election sponsors or landlords, receive tax gifts from Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg. If we're going to do something about the growing inequality in the country, we're going to have to get more people to work. We must have a policy that prioritises school, health and work. We have to redeploy the values we have in society. Ordinary people have to get more well-being, and those who are richer have to be involved in financing well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1392	One of the most important tasks of a country is to ensure the security of the people of the country – security for the relief of disease, the presence of the police when necessary, and the defence being offered to protect the country if unpeace threatens. It is also a fundamental commitment to ensuring stable states and good living conditions for the people who live there. Unfortunately, we see that today's government downgrades food security in its aid policy. The aid budget in Norway is probably 30 billion. kr in 2018. Only about 3 pst. of this goes to agricultural aid, unlike around 1970, when this part was over 30 p.m. Looking at the situation in Africa, it is estimated that the population will increase from about 1.2 billion people in 2015 to about 2.5 billion in 2050. This increase must, of course, be addressed by giving priority to food security and strengthening food production in Africa. The government does the opposite by adding agricultural aid to the field of industrial development and job creation. This means the Center Party is the wrong priority. We see that developments in e.g. Africa needs a stronger focus on food production. The World Bank has made it clear that investments that attract small farmers in agriculture produce at least twice as much impact as other aid to eradicate poverty. In the poorest countries, the effect is four times greater. Near 60 pst. of the jobs in sub-Saharan countries are in agriculture. Women are responsible for the greatest amount of work. By ensuring food production through a fundamental focus on producing food itself, we will be more able to help countries out of poverty. By focusing on ownership of the earth and foundations, we will help raise the position of women. We also know that climate change will hit small-scale agriculture hard in many African countries. It is a paradox that several African countries are forced to import food and that imports of food constitute 15-20 pst. of the total imports of the least developed countries in the world. Norway can make a difference here. Why not launch a Food for Development application using the Fish Development Model? Norway also has high and good skills in land-based food production. The centre party believes that we need to give priority to the long-term solutions through increased focus on food security and production in the countries. We also want further control of how the aid money is used, and to ensure that the aid funds are used where they can have the greatest effect. By helping the countries produce their own food, we contribute to stability and peace. The Central Party is working to ensure that Norwegian aid policy is based on the challenges of the future. The government's down-priority of agricultural aid suggests that Norway today is not contributing to the long-term and sustainable food production that is so much needed in the world today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1405	In recent years there have been major changes in the postal market. Over the past 15–20 years, the item has made a number of major adjustments, including: by the closure of 1 000 post offices in favour of the creation of 1 300 Post in Store and with the extension of opening hours. As we know, the Post has a need for further adaptations because the volume of letters falls drastically and the communication habits of the inhabitants are digitised. 99.99 pst. Norwegian households now have access to ordinary broadband. Almost 50 pst. for households in the districts, broadband is available with the highest speeds. 92 pst. of our 16- to 79-year-olds use smartphones for private purposes, and the use of the Internet has shots in the weather. 41 pst. of the population aged between 16 and 79 who ordered films or music on the Internet during the last year. And as much as 93 pst. of the same people using the Internet for e-mail, and 92 pst. uses the Internet for banking services. The digital revolution gives people, businesses and the public access to ever-new services where people are. But this also presents some challenges. Digitalisation leads to dramatic developments in the postal market with ever-increasing volume of letters. In 2017, Norwegian households received an average of 3.9 correspondences per week. So the letter volume has been more than half since 2000. And the changes in the postal market are happening more and more quickly. Only in the next five years, until 2025, an additional half is expected. But the cost of running out mail in all mailboxes throughout the country every day is pretty tight. There is a background for the Ministry of Transport to indicate the need for changes in universal postal service requirements with a reduction in the number of postal days. Some have expressed concerns about the distribution of newspapers. But then I would remind you that 77 pst. online newspapers are read one or more times a day by the entire population, while 31 pst. read the paper once or more per day. Amedia reports a larger increase in net subscription than the decline in paper subscriptions. That people get a more digital behavior, make locals know and have to think new. But a decrease in the number of mail breakdown days does not automatically mean the end of the localiser distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1416	People are different, and we believe that it also needs to be reflected in the service offer. A diversity of public, private and non-profit services strengthens our well-being, both because it provides each option and because different actors can help challenge, complement and inspire each other. The opening of this session now calls for a high level of prohibition of profit and the recommuneration of private services. Proposals previously reserved for the radical left side are now reaping echoes far into the centre of the Workers' Party. It has at all crept into a strange sense of reality in a seemingly unified left-hand side, where it is morally high-worthy to go with a deficit. I think we should stay a little bit at this very moment, because it is a paradox that when a private service provider delivers an offer that users are at least as pleased with – yes, many times more satisfied with – as the public service, but still manages to take out a surplus, then the reaction is moral aggravation that it was possible to perform the service in a more efficient way. If it was the people's tax money and the best possible management of those who were motivated here, then the moral aggravation is completely wrong. In this case, the private offer has actually done nothing but to make public savings visible, and since the grant of the private offer is also likely to be calculated by adapting the use of costs in the public offer, and there is still room for profit, this should actually facilitate a win-win situation on the left-hand side. Thus, by engaging in reforms that reduce public spending, they can make public services both more efficient and fairer, while at the same time limiting private profit. Yes, maybe even the left-hand side would have found room for some tax havens with such an approach. Right we think we have to take whole, not half, the country in use. The people who contribute to the provision of quality services are satisfied with a thank you – whether they work in a public, non-profit or private offer – does not deserve to be characteristic of being welfare professionals or of having sucked the door in the treasury.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1429	This year’s census shows that the government prioritises and focuses on better growing-up conditions for vulnerable children and young people. As the child’s representative from the Progress Party, I think it is warming up extra well. It shall include, inter alia: a stepping-up plan is provided for children and young people’s mental health. We will provide children who grow up in low-income families, better opportunities for development and not least participation in leisure activities, kindergartens and SFOs. We want to strengthen and improve child protection. The Progress Party, together with our government partners, has been working for years to provide the best possible help to children and young people in need of child protection assistance. We've strengthened child protection in several ways, and now it's added to a historic lift of competence in municipal child protection. The capacity of services is strengthened by earmarked means, and we are facilitating more emphasis on services that prevent takeovers. Good ways to drive child protection are seeing more and more examples. At the latest today, we could look at the NRK how in Kongsberg the number of emergency positions has been reduced by 90 pst. in only three years. This is the result of targeted and hard work where, among other things, listening to the child himself. At the same time, solutions are sought in the existing and extended networks of the child. It provides better solutions for the child. We also see good examples of how it can work when the county council chooses a softer approach than before. In Bergen's Official Journal today we see a great article on how five of the country's county members in a trial project choose to meet the families in a slightly different way. It gives a better experience for your parents and a better result for your children. The Progress Party has always been on the sidelines with children and young people in terms of the need for child protection. That is why we listen particularly well to, among other things. The Children's Protection Professionals and the National Association for Children's Protection. They give us a lot of good input, which we include in our hearts, and which we use every day in our work. The main thing is to listen more to the children themselves. They know their own cause best and will always be the most important people in finding solutions to their home challenges. The government will soon submit a draft consultation on a new child protection law. One of the main points is precisely to strengthen the child perspective and legal certainty. I'm happy to join in and create even better child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1442	Now we have been presented with the right-wing government's 2019 work plan through this census, a plan that says more about its own excellence and own desires than about the challenges facing society as a whole. This has only intensified over these two days. The Labour Party is accused of having many and good ambitious proposals. It's an accusation we're living very well with. The Labour Party has always had ambitions on behalf of ordinary people, for business – yes, for the whole country. The working party will present all the everyday heroes that each day make a difference in our society, and there are many of them. Safe and good communities are the very foundation of a well-functioning democracy with broad and active participation. The Knyken people, who received the Firehouse Prize in 2014, are a good boy from Orkdal who every day makes a difference. Yeah, it's strong community. The Education Committee was on a study trip in Canada last week, where we included: visited a kindergarten with over 700 children, and where the youngest was three weeks old. The Labour Party has worked throughout its history to strengthen families with children and equality. That mother and father can be at home with their children in the first year is important for equality and quality of life for each and not least for society. One of those in the hotel's prescription worked seven days a week and had two employers to get their ends to work together. When the Workers' Party has great ambitions on behalf of all children who start school each harvest, we have ambitions on behalf of the future. We must present all those who work as teachers every day for children and young people to thrive, learn and develop as whole people. Well-being and learning belong together. It's about giving teachers confidence. The Labour Party wants a greater commitment to school through, among other things, more teachers, it's not like Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde said we don't have ambitions. It's just in the municipalities the school is developing. That is why we want a stronger commitment through, among other things, 1000 more teachers. The Labour Party has always been the guarantor of the common school, the school where different people meet, where different people are given equal opportunities. That's maybe the best thing we have in our welfare community. The Labour Party also has ambitions to strengthen secondary education, so that even more people complete their education. In the fall we visited Orkdal and Meldal secondary schools, which could show very good results. They cooperated closely with local businesses, so that professionals were given appropriate and good education tailored to the needs of local businesses for future labour and skills. I have a lot on my heart, so I'll be back in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1457	In the throne we heard that the government was betting on the work against violence and abuse, and not many minutes ago we heard the representative Hemdal from the Progress Party, who said she was delighted with the government's efforts. We are many who care and who do not accept that children live under care failure. Statistically, there should be someone in every nursery and in every class. Nevertheless, many of these children go under the radar. They're not getting caught. If we're going to discover more, we have to dry to care and not always believe the best of people. As adults, we have a responsibility to engage in the neighbor's children as well. Violence in close relationships is not a private matter. There seems to be a cross-political consensus that the most vulnerable children must be given priority, but unfortunately there is no real budget funding. The government has now announced that, through the escalation plan next year, it will strengthen the field by 67 million. kr. In a state budget, unfortunately, there is no money that goes far. When the escalation plan was promoted in its time, there was great expectation of a binding budgeting over time. Other escalation plans have been just that – important tools for lifting an area. The mental health escalation plan granted it over 6 billion. DKK over 10 years. We cannot say the same in the area of violence and abuse. The priority of the year can be said to be a small symbolic sum on a national scale. Budget leaks tend to be good things that show a real bet in an area. This must be said to be the saddest budgetary leakage of the harvest. The plan of escalation against violence and abuse is of little use if it does not include the necessary funds. Several organisations have early identified major shortcomings in the plan, and when it is not given priority in the budgets it has little value. If more people are to be discovered, all those working with children and young people must have the skills to see, and action must be taken quickly. Children who have experienced violence and abuse shall not experience that their case is not prioritised. The police must have competence and people at work. The ambitions of the right-wing government are price-worthy, but when it does not provide sufficient funds, it does not hold. Empty words do not help anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1482	Everyone from the position has had predictable posts about how well we are in Norway, and how well we are doing. I have it materially good, but as a finnmarking, I don't have it right now. We have been presided over by the majority in this assembly in the context of the regional reform, and the Workers' Party's proposal on volunteering is likely to be re-elected today – for the third time. The stork consists of a congregation that seeks power, but should never abuse power. Not listening to 87 pst. by the population of Finnmark, who have said no to being coerced with Troms, is an abuse of power. Use of power, or abuse of power, does not produce anything good, only repressed. Absence in a population does none of us any good. It feels as if the authorities in this country don't care about us Finnmarks, and even worse – don't respect what the Finnmarks mean. Why don't we want to lock up? We were a multicultural state long before the word was invented. We've been struggling with our own identity, our different languages and not being Norwegian enough. We've learned to accept ourselves and be proud of what we are: the Sami, the Finns, the Women and the Nordics – or a mixture of it. That's exactly why our identity is our own. We've fought it out ourselves, and that's why we fight for it. I say from this pulpit that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have made a historical mistake. They have decided to coerce Troms and Finnmark not only against the will of the Finns, but also against the majority of Troms' will. We're far away, we have the greatest distances, we're a victim of coercion, and we've learned that it's easier to force people the further away from them. The achievement of regional reform is characterised by prestige, and not good arguments. I fear that a poor cooperation climate will characterize the new coercive region, and there is no reason to be satisfied with this disastrously wretched craft. Finally, I would like to say that as a Finnmarking, I am sad about the situation that the Storting and the government have put us in. Sad may not be the right word to choose, but, to put it bluntly, I do not really find a suitable word that is also acceptable to Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1498	Norway needs more proud trade union workers. That is why we need a strong commitment to vocational training with funds for new modern equipment, as the Labour Party has proposed in its budget. 1 billion. until the professional level is absolutely necessary. We have to make it possible for skilled workers to take vocational schools, as the industry demands. Professionals who want more than one professional letter to strengthen their own and the company's competence need to be motivated to do so, and it needs to be better facilitated. We need to strengthen the investment in apprenticeship places. The NHO presented its competence barometer now, and it shows that in the public sector, municipalities, county and state, there was little growth, and there was a great lack of apprentices. That's why we have to make sure that all those who are without an apprenticeship place have room in public so that they can complete their education. I am very excited when the right-wing government presents the revision of the long-term plan for research and higher education, and not least the state budget for 2019. The government says that this is one of their most important areas of activity in the years to come – thank you and price. But I think both employees and students at NTNU in Trondheim are very excited about whether this investment will include a solution to Elgesetergate 10. A comprehensive campus is necessary and an important investment for the future – not locally, not regionally, but nationally and internationally, in order to strengthen Norway’s knowledge and competitiveness in the future. A safe and decent working life is the very foundation of the welfare society. Safe workers produce more and better. Good access to proud skilled workers strengthens a decent and competitive working life and business. The Workers' Party will strengthen the organised working life. Then we create good and safe communities. I myself have been a club manager and trade union leader for almost 20 years. Through high organisational participation in the company, we created good communities that made the workplaces safe. Of course, it's important to show the positive that happens in our society, and it's made the Right Party and the Advance Party to those degrees. In Orkdal, we call it a croquet. For the Workers' Party, it is important to present those who have challenges in society, those who are at the back of the line of society. It's not least about the million people who today don't earn a pension from the first penny. We have to talk them out. We have to stand up for them. Of course, those who are well should be well, but we also need to speak to those who are not well. That is why, as SV has suggested, we want to look at the consequences of cutting housing, which has occurred, cutting disability benefits, cutting disability allowances, etc. It has. They're the ones who're struggling, they're the welfare workers. The Labour Party will stand up to them and make sure that we get a much more equal society that ensures that more are lifted, and not just that the richest get more. I'll come back to that in my last post.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1511	The title of the Jeløia platform is «Sustainable welfare society». It is a challenging project because it signals the importance of prevention. Prevention has been and is a good feature of good left policy. Such a project requires political courage because we usually do not see results until 10-20 years in advance. The roadmap for mental health, fought throughout the previous ageing period, not least by the Left and Christian People's Party in common, is just one of many centre projects that have borne fruits. In the course of the next year, the last pieces are in place to get psychologists in all Norwegian municipalities. Last night I was in Bø in Telemark, among others. to hear a talk by the newly added psychologist of the village, on the plans she and the public health coordinator have for the project Young Arena Mid-Telemark, a low threshold for children and young people aged 13 to 18. This project, which has attracted more than 5 million. kr from county funds, would not have been possible if the government had not stuck to the escalation plan. Bø is a university building. I am convinced that the students there will later benefit from the building's forward-looking administration, as did the students at Norway's environmental and life sciences universities. There the municipality has joined a spice team with the university to offer psychological support to the students who need it. It is most necessary to make an effort for our students in this field. Students' health and well-being study 2018, the SHoT study, presented in September, shows a dramatic deterioration in the health status of our young academics. Today, more than one in four students report having challenges with their mental health. We have to do something about this. We have to take on the loneliness that many new students meet with, we have to do something for those who eat their food package alone in the canteen and walk back to the reading room just as lonely. The students wish unison that a separate announcement is made to the Stortinget about this. The Minister of Public Health's answer is that these conditions will be sacrificed to a special place in the forthcoming public health announcement. It's going to be the Left's priority task in this government to follow up what's going on, and that the content of this chapter is going to be something more than an outline of old statistics and findings, as students have often been fed up with. The Left's own State Council also has, and she is aware of, a task in terms of both student funding and housing, which means that valuable apprenticeships should not be included in part-time work and house-hunting of expensive homes in the country's press areas. We have delivered so that it holds in this field – with eleven months of study funding and a large number of newly built dwellings. But efforts must be followed up and preferably reinforced. I consider investments in children and young people to be one of the most valuable things we can do to create a sustainable welfare society. This gives students, in particular, the opportunity to form friendships and social relations in new surroundings and to facilitate good and meaningful leisure activities — before alcohol consumption and night blindness take them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1526	The representative, Frida Melvær, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1531	Many have been told about the police reform during these last two days. The 2017 survey shows increased trust in the police: 95 pst. feel safe where they live. This is an important quality in Norwegian society that I see high. The police often convey an honest and good picture of the situation. It's hard to stand in the midst of a reform that affects the working day of people, and we should respect that. Everything is not in place anywhere, and we can't expect it when we're halfway through the reform. But there is also a very clear feedback that the direction of reform is right. Police work on the city, new work tools, the research project, online patrols, stronger trade unions, a strengthening of the Kripos and the PST, the establishment of the emergency centre and new police helicopters are right to meet the new image of crime and threat. Society has changed, crime has changed, and threats have changed. That's what we're going to meet with a stronger police force.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1540	The Prime Minister said – I believe to have noted – that all the positive things that have happened in society are the result of a misguided policy. It's close for us to see some shortcomings and biases, the negative in society, and it might also be part of a wild policy, as we see it. But I'll let that lie. Now I'm going to be a little out of my mind and talk a little bit about what we haven't done in this society, in my sector, the transport sector. One development that many are concerned about is a tremendous growth in trailer traffic on Norwegian roads. Everyone must have noticed that. Even on quadruple roads, you can see that the right path is largely occupied. You have to run a lot to get past. It is in many ways a situation that is not desired if we are to achieve the goal of the Great Government and the Government of getting more goods over on the track and on the sea. We have recently also seen disclosures of pay and working conditions for drivers. They have almost become a new paria caste, moving on Norwegian roads with pay and work conditions that we will not be familiar with. Cabotage regulations are broken, it is difficult to control and control officers lack tools to control. That's why we have, among other things. at present early, some proposals for consideration in the Transport Committee. There's one point that's very important, and that's getting a transport register. This transport register should at least tell us a good deal about how many cars are involved, what they do in Norway, how many trips they have, etc. It is essential to get such a transport register, just as it is important to get an electronic consignment note. Today, drivers can actually sit in the front of the car with a copy pencil and write new shipping notes when they see that it is being checked. This isn't lucky. The transport industry in Norway wants this for itself, and it must not be voluntary, as the government proposes, it must be a mandatory electronic consignment note. Then we have not been able to give the railway any advantages and competitive advantage over our vehicle trains. We want to do something about that. Among other things, it is necessary to compensate for the increasing rail charges to be phased in for the carriage of goods by rail. It's absolutely crucial. Denmark has done so, including within the framework of the EU Regulation. We have to do the same. Nor will we avoid receiving positive treatment for the railways in such a way that support schemes are provided, as some EU countries have. The last thing we haven't gotten is phased in hydrogen well enough. That's where our hydrogen proposal for trains comes in strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1553	Time doesn't stand still. Of course, Norway needs to change structures as society evolves. We have a state structure from 1866. Several governments have tried to make a regional reform, but have failed. This government has succeeded. Although there are protests, there has been a regional reform that points forward. I believe that the criticism and hoarseness that the Workers' Party comes with is not a believer. Where did the Workers' Party, which actually looked a little bit further forward, that would take action, and that actually realize that we must have stronger regions once we have decided that we should have it? Those regions must be able to do new, larger tasks. And where would the health enterprise reform of the Workers' Party be if you didn't take action, and if you couldn't deliver, even if there were some protests? The game that previously meant to grab hold, turn – and turn the cap after the wind. When the new tasks for the counties are outside, which have been requested by the Workers' Party here in the Chamber for several rounds, there is a new criticism. The working party's Anette Trettebergstuen could tell at Arendalsuka that it was not about transferring a single task in the cultural sector to the new states. Then you feel that you are a little bit ‘stuck’. It is important for the new regions to be given tasks in the field of culture, but that does not mean that we should not have a strong state cultural policy. It's more important than ever, because democracy and expressions are under pressure. The representative of the Supreme Court, my colleague in the Family and Culture Committee, mentioned developments in Hungary. That's why it's incredibly important to bet on children and young people, because they're the ones to bet on. They must have the opportunity to create their own voluntarism, their expressions, the opportunity to organise their youth culture and to resist the pressure against democracy that we see. They shall receive a cultural ballast and training to enable them to do so. That's what this government will give, and we're responding to the message about culture for youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1566	Today, I started the day at Eidsvoll's place, at the most important lunch of the year – a collection that focused on inclusion, diversity and the importance of work, a collection to ask for more VTA sites – permanently organized workplaces. But I want to start by telling you if what I think was the most important speech today. Erling was born with brain damage. He told me that his mother had rushed when he lay in her stomach, and it had made him the amazing man he was. Erling has an important voice. He shows the way to the society we have to create together: a society with space for everyone, a society where we see opportunities and not constraints. Erling spoke about the importance of work, the importance of community and the importance of mastering. We need more of these communities. As a result, the government has invested in an increase in VTA places, while encouraging more employers to take in people with disabilities. This is an important part of inclusion. We need more employers who see the value of diversity, and then we have to share the good stories. While previously it was storage and activation that was the goal of the growing businesses, today value creation and actual work are at the forefront. Aski on Karmøy operates its own Europrize, under the same conditions as other Europrize shops in Norway. Performance, quality requirements and delivery requirements are required. At Pro-Service in Sandnes, a boy with Asperger syndrome is working on controlling love for the oil industry. The error rate has fallen dramatically after he started this. The resources are often hidden in the individual, and through activity and mastering they appear in places that were not believed. It's the value of work – but we have to do more. We have not come far enough with Objective 2 of the IA agreement to include more disabled people. We need more VTA sites, we need closer cooperation between growth businesses and ordinary businesses, and we need a good follow-up, so people don't fall out of the system. I would recommend a visit to a growing business, preferably more, because rarely do you find such employment and enthusiasm as it is there. And I think several of those who are in a VTA place today, had enjoyed being in an ordinary business. In this way you get a diverse working life, value creation and a good working environment. It'll be a win for everyone. We need more employers on the team. That's the only way we get an inclusion virtue and a society with space for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1581	This government says it's busy facilitating business. But does it apply to the whole of business? Does it apply to tourism, especially to small businesses in the district, and to farmers with fruit growing and vegetable growing? Where do they have to travel to register seasonal workers? Can they travel from Hardanger and all the way to Bergen to get the workers approved for a busy time? It is a journey that takes an entire day – they must be in line – when they could have done the exact same task locally. It would be effective, okay -- no problem. What about the farmers who have been one hour late in delivering their production request and who miss the whole production supplement? Does the state make a mistake? We make mistakes in paying the VAT, we get a fine, but nothing more. Many of those who have had challenges with this are young farmers who have done what the government wants: to bet and develop, preferably with many branches at once. They've gotten into a mess that makes it really hard for them to get on, especially this year, when there were big challenges with drought. Several representatives from the Progress Party have been busy reducing the power of this House. It sounds nice, but then I wonder how it fits together: the municipalities should not be allowed to decide the size, they should not be given the choice of who to cooperate with, whether to have property taxes – at least not how large he should be – and the Progress Party will have a state-owned care for the elderly. I didn't think this much reminds me of 'less power in this hall'. If the built-in people are not happy with the way these tasks are done, they can replace the local government at their next choice. If we're going to give power from us, we also have to accept different solutions in the municipalities. I think it'll give a more active society, where it's interesting to get involved in municipal policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1592	It was a pleasure to hear Prime Minister Erna Solberg do popular education for SV's party leaders earlier today, and when I read through the proposals SV has promoted during the throne debate, I also see that it was necessary in several areas. Today, while we have a government that runs Norway safely and steadily, we have an opposition on the Stortinget that is struggling to find points to criticize the Progress Party, Right and Left for. It is very good to see it through the proposals that SV has promoted in the debate on the throne. The SV's proposals are based on false assumptions and lack of knowledge, and I would rather recommend the party in future to send written questions to the members of the government and get good answers to them there, rather than put them as suggestions in a throne debate, where they are not at home. When SV e.g. suggests a study on who is affected by maternity care cuts, it is first of all a mistake. The government hasn't cut birth control. On the contrary, we have built up the midwife service and reintroduced legal requirements on midwifery competence in the municipalities, which SV removed when they were in government. There are few places in the world where food is as safe as it is in Norway. When SV suggests that an examination be made of the outcome of the transfer of responsibility for the offenders to the hospitals, the response is that the offenders have been better cared for after the hospitals assumed the primary responsibility. The regional health establishments show that all offenders have established a 24-hour emergency watch at all receptions. With regard to the proportion of physiotherapy, I am pleased that the Progress Party supports that everyone is now in the system of self-participation. In the past, only some patient groups received support for physiotherapy. Now it's free for everyone under the age of 16, and everyone else is allowed to participate in the self-employment scheme of NOK 2025 per year. The Progress Party will not support any proposals based on false assumptions or proposals asking for knowledge we already have. Therefore, the Progress Party will not support any of the SV's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1607	More government budgets and more cooperation between the four parties have increased the appropriations for the cultural field. We have become better at preserving our cultural heritage, and over five years and five state budgets, the allocations to the Cultural Memory Fund have doubled. This represents more than 110 million. kr, which we can use to take care of our common cultural heritage, which triggers a total of 300 million. kr for upgrading and protection of private heritage. This contributes to the maintenance of the craftsmanship and techniques, but also to the building up of cities, and to active local development. A good example of this is Vardø Restored – a development project in Vardø that rehabilitates old settlements and where they run active site development. It's in the field of cultural memories in private ownership we today have the greatest aftermath. It's a lot to take care of, but we also have to take care of our church buildings. We have 28 stave churches today, and a good job has been done to take care of these stave churches through the Stavkirche program. Our churches are well restored today, but now perhaps the medieval churches are on their way. It would be preferable to do everything at the same time, but it is difficult in practice. But the government has arranged for a lot of investment to be made in caring for our common culture. Now plans are being made for the medieval churches, because it's important for us to take care of them. Our church buildings are also important cultural memories. We will also raise the cultural memory field with the state's regional reform. Of course, we want the opposition to agree with us that it is a good idea that the cultural memory field can be reduced to a level closer to the municipalities and closer to those areas in order to achieve good cooperation. We need more competence in the cultural memory field in the regions, and a good way to raise this and an important tool for us in this is the regional reform. I hope that the opposition and the Center Party can also be involved and support.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1618	The representative Nina Sandberg has spoken twice earlier and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1624	The representative Tybring-Gjedde criticised the Workers' Party in her article, as she used to do. Among other things, she addressed skills requirements, where the right seems to find it difficult that it is only the government parties themselves who think it is a good idea to separate the teachers from the school. Then I must say that the Workers' Party does not give priority to school is an empty claim. In the VG resolution she refers to the main issues of the Workers' Party in front of the municipal elections, said Jonas Gahr Støre, among others. that the Workers' Party will ask all municipalities to give priority to the activity school. Another important thing is that he announces a big 3 to 4 billion bet. kr more to the municipalities. Much of the reason is that we're going to fulfill the promises we have about school. Here it is the opposition that is driving the policy, not the other way around. When it comes to early efforts, the Right has voted in favour of a read, write and calculate guarantee several times. We were out of this proposal long before the Right came with his duty to early action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1629	This morning, we heard the Prime Minister once again boasting that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are going down. But the back of the medal was not mentioned this time either. The government's climate policy bathes in palm oil and rainforest destruction. It is because the government contributes to the rainforest logging that they on paper get reduced emissions here at home in Norway. During these two days, none of the government parties have been able to give an answer as to why it is good climate policy to cut rainforests. And that's understandable, because it's not possible to defend such a policy. That is why SV has invited us to a new climate settlement, and I really hope that the majority in this room sees the need to get palm oil out of Norwegian climate policy and ensure real emissions cut even in one of the world's richest countries. One of the other major environmental challenges facing the world is plastic pollution. All games in this room are busy with this. Earlier today, we heard comrade Halleland's description of the plastic pollution that met us when the Energy and Environment Committee was travelling in Indonesia recently. But what is the Progress Party's response to this plastic pollution? Yes, let the poor in the world pay for the cleanup. The foreground part will require all growth in the aid budget to be used for plastic cleaning. I almost didn't think my own ears when I heard it. We will once again take from the poorest and let them pay for the cleaning up of the huge plastic problem in this world. Once again, the Party of Advancement shows itself as a party for the few and the rich, not the many.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1636	Now the representative Lars Haltbrecken has talked on several occasions about bathing in palm oil. I would like to encourage the representative Haltbrecken and SV to be more results-oriented. In the climate change we're currently in, you don't hit the fasitite right away. iPhone 1 was also not the final product. We're going to try a lot, but we're also going to cut, and now we actually have documented cuts. Palm oil has to be pushed out of the tank, but what we know now is that biofuels are working on cutting greenhouse gas emissions, and it's about getting an alternative to that tank as soon as possible. There are not so many other countries and regions in the world that are positioned to take the big promise. Now, when we're also going to start putting biofuels in the aviation fuel, we ensure that this is an investment that someone dares to take, and a technology that will be with the next decades, at least until 2030, until there are alternatives. We have also started a very offensive electric flight in Norway. Both for biofuels, jet fuel, and electric aircraft, Norway is leading, just as we are on electric cars, in the transport sector in general and in shipping, not least. So I think it's kind of flaked, what you're doing now, because that palm oil is going to be in the long run a parentheses to get fossil fuel out of the tank. Then I have heard a lot about the regional reform and the local reform, especially the regional reform. There has been no mention that there is also a large-scale climate and environmental reform. We need to facilitate regions that are able to take responsibility in a completely different way from today for waste. Small municipalities are not able to build the biogas plants and fuel plants that we want from the waste they collect today. They have either no industrial competence, financial muscle or risky ability to bear those investments. I hear someone from the Workers' Party talking about us sitting waiting for a circular revolution in Norway. We're also well positioned for it, but we don't have the structures in place to take the necessary promises. Now we have to come to Denmark and Sweden, which has implemented the regionalisation of resources in order to take that promise for the future. We should start talking about content and facts and what we're trying to do, to a much greater extent than we're doing with that quagmire about some boundary moves here and there, because it's very little about it when we're going to facilitate for the future. In the interior, we're making this promise. We're building the Inland now. The country's highest tree house is being built. Greenhouse gas emissions are falling. We have arranged for many district heating systems and use a lot of wood for them. So there are great opportunities for the future when we dare to go into those debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1647	From palm oil to something closer to home. During today's first exchange of lines, we almost got the impression that the opposition leader thought that the policy task was to problematize. In 2009, the then government introduced a maritime traffic regulation that was really problematical about the unproblematic. Strusshamn Kindergarten in my municipality is one of the many who have made contact with this particular code. That legislation implies that a pre-school teacher who wants to take children out on the rowing boat must have a recreational boat licence – 120-330 hours course, safety course, course in passenger and crisis management, VHF course and health statement – and we are still in the rowing boat. The requirements for on-board equipment are 2 paragraphs. VHF radios, spare power source for 6 hours – i.e. one more like rudder then, I assume – up-to-date maps and nautical publications, liferafts, separate life jackets with at least 100 Newtons, lifebuoys with light, floating cast with attachments to 30 meters of liquid line, three parachutes lights and three hand-blowns, a rescue gate or equivalent to pick people up the water with. There are slightly lower requirements for boats that go under 90 knots, in the summer, but still. In practice, this means end-of-life activities for kindergartens, schools, camp schools, sea horses, etc. What is the frequency of accidents to be prevented by this extensive and unprofessional requirement? It's nobody. There are no recorded serious accidents with this type of activity. And then I'm not talking about annual accidents, there's no case of drowning accidents as far as we can detect statistics in this area. There are no school children under the supervision of a life jacket in a rowing boat as accidents at sea. It is mainly people my age who fall from the kaikant or from the boat, not rarely in the affected condition, and always without a life jacket. I assume that there are concepts that are not parliamentary expressions, but are adequate for the situation as it is now. So let me say it like my son Johan in two years, who is passionately concerned about boat life and boats and an experienced kindergarten boy, would say it: Stupid – Dad fix? Dear Johan, Dad wants to fix. He trusts that the Council of State and this hall will ensure that children's and children's children, seamen and others who travel by sea, who have done so for generations, will learn marine life in practice by the sea, not as theory in the classroom, also in the future, and will change this legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1662	Some of the challenges we experience as a society are too big to be solved around the kitchen table. But when we can gather on challenges around both the kitchen table and the King's table, we can achieve incredible results. Loneliness is a societal challenge we need to work to reduce, both as individuals and as politicians. Earlier this year, there was a Twitter message from Albert Astrup Hansen that met me in the middle of my stomach: "I am a 17-year-old boy and one of many who have no friends." Since then, I have had the pleasure of meeting Albert several times, and I want to thank Albert for his openness and courage and for putting solitude on the agenda. In our working party organized a round table meeting on solitude with No Isolation and a group of people who have experienced solitude themselves. At the meeting, we quickly agreed that Norway should have the ambition to be the least lonely country in the world. In addition, we worked out five demands for the Minister of Older People and Public Health. The fight against loneliness must be part of the community’s public health work, and dedicated employees need to be contacted. Need for health care must be provided, where solitude is the cause or result of other health problems. It is necessary to implement a national campaign to make the scope and consequences of solitude visible. It is estimated that solitude affects 15-20 pst. by the population. It's a public health problem that needs more transparency around, and it's important that the taboo is broken down. Business, academia, volunteering and the public must work together in a force for solitude. In addition, each of us has to take responsibility for giving room to an extra person in social settings. Volunteer centres must play a central role in creating social arenas that can be used to build relationships over time. This requires more resources for volunteer centres, so that the supply becomes low and accessible to all independently of the economy. Everyone should have a friend in kindergarten and at school. We have already requested a reading, calculating and writing guarantee in the school. Kindergartens and schools are probably so important arenas for social training and for creating good fellowship. In the spring, the Workers' Party had a proposal for a representative related to solitude. We believe that the fight against loneliness must be part of the municipal public health work. Unfortunately, the proposal was voted down by the government parties. But I repeat my call here: if we gather around both the kitchen table and the King's table, we can achieve incredible results.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1677	I want to start by saying that many people today have taken up the debate on child poverty in a deserving way, and I want to say something about it. I think that child poverty is not primarily about poor children, it is very often about poor families. And family poverty is very often about low income, or maybe no income, maybe just one income in the family. It is very often about short-term living in Norway, and it is also about many parents who do not have the same opportunity as other parents to give the children the class trip or social mobility they can have. That's really why it's very important for us in the Right to see a little bit past the statistics. I can almost say with certainty that the vast majority of immigrant families have ever found themselves in a poverty statistics in their lives. But if you look past that statistic and look at the individual family, you'll see that that family isn't part of that statistics because they can't do better, but they're happy because they haven't come anymore. That's exactly why we're entering into that debate about looking at the whole thing. That's exactly why we're betting on free core time in kindergarten and a social housing policy. We have renewed the whole process of integration so that we get more focus on language training, work and faster housing, so that families can get started faster. We have renewed and extended the range of activities in areas with major social differences, where language training, schools, workplaces and safe communities are areas of activity. In parts of the world, you have a saying that a whole village is needed to raise a child. It's a saying that you might be able to translate into Norwegian. What is the modern village in our country, because it's also here? Family, school, working life, volunteering, child protection, regionalisation – all these things form an important part of what is needed to bring about a community where more people can be raised out of poverty. In this area, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party through ten budgets and several common solutions have made a formidable effort. We're proud, but we've never promised penthouse policy. We've promised to make a real effort in this area, and that's what we're looking forward to working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1688	The representative Kjeseth from the Left used a lot – not to say the whole of his first post to tell how he perceived the Workers' Party's climate and environmental policy. He used his second post to tell us how targeted and results-oriented one had to be – it was the article from SV that triggered it – before he was back to the Labour Party's policy. I realized that the representative Kjeseth talked little, or nothing, about his own policy in this area. It triggers a certain curiosity about whether you don't have your own policies, but you actually do. In the Party programme of the Left, it says, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t ‘We want Norway to have a national target of halving the 1990 emission level by 2030, and to be carbon-neutral in the same year.’ It's a very good goal, an objective that would have been worth fighting for and worth mentioning in the debate we're in. But you may have chosen government over climate. It's very serious about the climate change we see. If we're going to solve the problem, we're going to get into the goal of the commitments we've been making, we're going to have to act now. I understand it can be difficult for the Left Party, which is part of the government, and I understand it can't be easy to sit in a government with government councils that twist every time questions are asked about man-made climate change. How, then, is it to achieve the objective of Norway being carbon-neutral in 2030 when the government does not want a national emission target? That is why, in conjunction with SV, at the beginning of yesterday's debate, we submitted a comprehensive climate proposal. We can't sit still and wait for the Left to get through to the government they're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1702	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1707	In the languages of the throne we were presented with a target of small differences, and therefore it is important to clarify now, at the tame of the debate, that we should get to that, we must have regular jobs in Norway with predictability for proper wages and pensions. That is why the decision that we in the Workers' Party agreed to have a majority yesterday, to cut out old-fashioned, short-term hired labour and rather to invest in permanent jobs, is an important decision to ensure that we achieve the goal of small differences in Norway. We know that small differences give better distribution and greater investment in a forward-looking business. It is very good that we now have a clean-up operation in the Norwegian labour market. Along with the pension from the first penny, we're going to raise a lot of people who deserve to be seen by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1714	One of the reasons I chose Right as a party is our strong belief that society is built from below – that the small communities are important. For the community is something other than the state, the community is something different than what politicians decide. The Community is not a society in which different people are to be treated equally. Another reason why I chose Right is that we put the individual in front of the system. Freedom of choice and diversity are important values. That's why I'm so glad the non-socialist parties have stood together well behind the vision of, among other things. The health service of the patient — how free treatment options are one of the important measures — that we value the efforts of those who invest in and work in the private kindergartens and health care institutions, that it is the patient and the user who is at the centre, and that it is the quality of the patient’s and user’s services that are the most important, not who provides the service. I have wondered that the Workers' Party is increasingly calling for only the public to offer services to our citizens. I find it sad to see how the Workers' Party talks about hardworking people, and instead of thanking them for giving them a good offer, they call welfare professionals. The representative of Kjerkol claimed in yesterday’s debate that the stated purpose of free treatment choice is to give private treatment providers access to Norwegian patients – talk about misunderstandings. However, it may explain some of the opposition to the scheme when one of the Healthists of the Workers' Party then has misunderstood the degrees and has not come to the conclusion that the intention is to give the citizens of Norway the opportunity to participate in and decide for themselves what treatment to receive, and who should provide them with this treatment. Had it not been for many of the hard-working people in the private health services, we would have been in long queues to go to the fast doctor and dentist and get help with our mental health. Without hardworking people in the private kindergartens, we had not had full babysitting today. Without hardworking people in the private sector, many drug users had not received the help they need to survive. The second thing I wonder about is that I've never heard anyone from the Workers' Party call private practice doctors, dentists or psychologists out in the municipalities for welfare professionals. Do they really think that all of these should also be municipalised and become public employees, as they believe employees of kindergartens, hospitals and treatment institutions should? Or aren't these welfare service providers equal to others, according to the Workers' Party? I believe that time has run out of politicians putting the system in front of the patient. I believe that time has come from politicians who are going to decide whether to allow citizens to have freedom of choice, or whether to align themselves with a standard solution that the same politicians have defined. I'm happy to belong to a party that puts people, not systems, in the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1731	It was Jorodd Asphjell's first post today that made me take the floor. Asphjell said what has also been echoed by large sections of the opposition, namely that in this persuasion the government parties have not been concerned with the major societal challenges, but have been only concerned with boasting. I must then remind you of what the languages of the throne were all about: how we are going to create a sustainable welfare society. There were six entirely concrete societal challenges that were raised, which are also reflected in the JELUEA declaration, namely: the need to convert the Norwegian economy into growth and job security; how to meet Norway's climate obligations and get to the green shift how to get into an inclusive working life and ensure that the growth we now have contributes to more of them with gaps in the CV or disability entering the labour market how to ensure good welfare arrangements and implement government reform Life how we can reduce poverty and promise those who fall outside how to implement an integration promise These are concrete societal challenges that the government is working on every day. Even I am delighted to be responsible for two of the important reforms, namely the reform of skills – how to ensure that people do not go out of date when technology contributes to the disappearance of work, how to ensure that people can be filled with skills and be safer in their working life. I am also responsible for the integration promise, which is about how we can ensure that immigrants become part of small and large communities, how more people get to work, how more people get to work, how they learn Norwegian, get into everyday integration and not least fight negative social control. It is the important struggle for freedom today, that everyone should have the right to live their own lives. These are challenges that the government is working on. So it's true that yes, a lot is going the right way, which is moving us towards the goals we've set. When more students learn more, more are at school, more complete and exist, we also help to reduce the differences in society. For the social journey starts in kindergarten and classroom, and that's why we're concerned with early efforts and making sure that no one falls outside. We would like to disagree on the direction of the policy. But our government is committed to addressing the major societal challenges, and we work every day to contribute to a sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1764	The representative, Jorod Asphjell, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1769	The representative Kristensen from the Right said that she joined the Right Party because she wanted society to be built from below – there is not much help to get from above. The opposition is accused of having many proposals with budgetary implications. Yes, we have ambitions on behalf of the people. We have ambitions on behalf of the welfare community and how we're going to build it in the future. We want to spend money on kindergartens to enhance quality. We want to spend money at school to get more teachers and early learning for the kids. We want to spend money on decent work, on a better working environment, and not least for a million employees to get a pension from the first penny. And we have announced that we want to spend billions of dollars on the municipalities, because it's in the municipalities that people live and live their lives. It is in the municipalities that welfare services are created, and there is also the use of welfare services. Therefore, it is important to spend the large amount of money on the municipal sector and not to increase the purchasing power of some. Here we have to make sure that the poorest get the best possible help from us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1776	Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1781	It went with 317 million litres of palm oil for car traffic in Norway last year. That's twice what we used the year before, and that's many times what Norwegian consumers threw out of palm oil from Norwegian food. This is a parentheses, says Left's Ketil Kjeseth. Palm oil production today is the main driver of the deforestation of the rain forest in Indonesia. There's obviously no parentheses; there's a significant problem. Kjenseth encourages SV to be constructive, and that is why we made 37 proposals yesterday, together with the Workers' Party, on how Norway should cut its emissions in the coming years, and that is why we are calling for the follow-up to the Storting decision last year, on which the Left and SV agreed, to throw the palm oil out of public tenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1786	What happens to me is I'm asked why I'm doing politics – what's the motivation for spending days, evenings and weekends at meetings, events and big piles of case papers. The answer is really simple: my goal is to work for a policy that allows children who grow up in Norway to be able to choose their own future as far as possible. I want to help children and young people feel safe, both on themselves and in society. I want to make sure that they can achieve their goals, and I want to be one of the lucky ones who will help to fulfill their children's dreams. But even if the answer is simple, it's hard to get it. Children depend entirely on safe adults, at home, in the community and in the positions of politicians around the country. We need to find the good balance between what the state should take responsibility for, and what the individual family itself should have the opportunity to choose. In the Right, we believe that knowledge in school and early effort for all children to learn to read, write and calculate is one of the things that is definitely public responsibility. Life gets a lot harder if you can't figure out what the sum of the checkout is going to be, or what the interest on the Mastercard really means in dollars and dollars. We live in a society where we are constantly surrounded by texts, where reading skills become more important every day, not only to understand what it says, but also to evaluate what is true and false, and to find out what is written to entertain us, to inform us, not least to influence us. Children depend entirely on reading skills in order to become independent and secure. Our children need basic skills and basic knowledge and understanding for society and the world around them if they are to have the prerequisites for success. To succeed, we also have to have a safe environment in kindergarten and school; we need a child protection that is there when the family is not enough. We need volunteering, so that children experience togetherness and mastering in leisure time. Yes, we may also need new guidelines for influencers, because they communicate so much in a way that can affect children and young people's self-confidence. The most important thing, though, is the family, the safe frames, having some adults who always stand up, and who always care. Then we also have to remember to let families decide for themselves – in order to make good choices about leave, about leisure time and about which kindergarten to choose. I salute the kids and the kids every single day and I'm very happy that this persuasion debate has shown that all the parties do, even though we sometimes disagree on how we can best help them succeed. Even I believe that the Right combination of public responsibility and freedom for families is a good start to help the children succeed in reaching the dreams they have. I want to work every day to get it done, and that's why I'm a politician.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1803	The Jelaua platform is offensive in climate and environmental policy. We have little time to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement – both the 2-degree and the 1.5-degree targets. The two main challenges we face on the Jeleia platform are 1) that we need a green transition, and 2) that we should meet our climate commitments. We need to reach the climate commitments by reducing emissions by at least 40 pst. together with the EU. It is important to have an agreement now in place during the year, and we need to be in the front line to lead to a rulebook for the Paris Agreement based on the 2015 agreement, and to strengthen it in the years to come. Norway is at the forefront in many areas of climate action, particularly in transport. We do things and get results that no one else really is close to. One thing is the electric car bet. 47 pst. of the car sales in September were electric cars. No other country is close to such results, and we are on the right track to achieve the goal set by a civil majority that only a zero-emission vehicle should be sold in 2025. We're on the verge of green shipping. Now there are 70 zero-emission ferries in Norway to be used at the beginning of the 2020s. We are at the forefront of the development of carbon capture and storage. The government is continuing the work with both Klemetsrud and Norcem in the years to come. We are also at the forefront of international efforts to conserve rainforests. The Norwegian effort to take care of and stop the deforestation of rainforest enjoys great respect and is an extensive work. We have good cooperation around the Amazon, we work, although it is difficult, in central Africa, and we have good cooperation in Indonesia. Indonesia has been listed several times. The most important thing we do with our policies is stop deforestation. Then we will give tribute to Indonesia when they have just introduced a moratorium to grant new permits for palm oil plants, and we will give it credit to review those already granted. We are also going to reduce the use of palm oil in Norway, but bio-based fuels are part of the solution, and then we need more zero-emission, more electric cars and more advanced biofuels. This is also the case in Norway. There are several projects going on – I think there are five that could produce 370 million tonnes of advanced biofuels by 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1818	I think the debate has been interesting. The languages of the throne had many good goals, and the debate here has been about how we can achieve them – those we agree on, and those we disagree about. One of the things we've heard from the government representatives, which is a reminder of what we ourselves experienced in government for a while in the second period, is the need to tell them everything you've achieved. It's very human, and it's pretty interesting. But we have read in speech points, overviews and annual reports how the policy is going, and I think they have to bear in mind that this debate, called the opposition debate, involves asking questions such as: how are we going to achieve the remaining objectives? What are target conflicts? How can we get together in some areas to move on? It's been important to us. Dealing has also been a theme. It has been interesting these days, because of a completely different debate, which has not gone here in the Chamber, where the leaders of the Right Party and the Advance Party have said that if there is another government in Norway, they can forget cooperation with those parties. Well, that's a different tone than what we hear all the time about the Workers' Party – that we don't make enough compromises, and that we don't have a deal. Sometimes it is said that we make a settlement because we lack a policy of our own. We are on the verge when it can bring Norway to the right course, and we have made a settlement also in areas that are demanding. But it has been quite striking how this government does not stand by its conciliators, does not bring them in and keep them informed about developments in the various areas. In this debate they have also called for a new agreement on climate policy. We opened that up when we had a majority government. This government has refused it at every crossroads when it has been in a minority. Then it's about the police. There the Prime Minister has been concerned that her leadership is saying what is going well, and complimenting those who are doing well. I fully agree with that, and that is proper leadership, but leadership is also addressing the challenges. I don't think it was a mistake of the good Minister of Justice when the representative of the Vågslid asked about the 2017 decision, where it says that the remaining Länsmann offices should be strengthened, was followed up, and the Minister of Justice said: What decision is this about? It's a very important decision, and when 11 out of 12 districts today announce that they don't have the police staff on their care, it's serious. That is why I think we have received an answer on how to correct it. Corresponding to retirement: My question to the Prime Minister was, Is it fair that a million don't get it? She has no black. If something is unfair, I think it's our job to work on it. I think that we have here made clear clear the dividing lines between the government parties and the opposition. The Labour Party has clearly stated what is becoming our areas of activity in order to make Norway better, not to congratulate us on what is good, for the good results we have all contributed to in different ways, but it is the everyday task of policy to make the tasks better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1831	The debate on the throne is coming to an end, and hopefully everyone will soon have their say. On Monday, the draft state budget comes, and the debate can continue. There was a mild tone in Gahr Støre's posts. I would like to say that the government parties have most of all raised the challenge for Norway in the future. State Council Sanner was just on the platform and pointed to the main challenges that the Jeløya platform is drawing on, and we have spent a lot of time – also I, in my post – on some of the main challenges, such as: that we will be over twice as many over 80 years in this country in 2040. It's not just a challenge, it's also an opportunity. I recommend that everyone who was not present read Astrid Nøklebye Heiberg's articles on that matter earlier today. We have the challenge of creating new and greener jobs, which are to replace the oil and gas revenues when they start going down. We have digitisation, which means that the jobs of the future require a different competence, and we need to implement a competence reform. We also have the integration and inclusion challenge, that more immigrants need to work in order not to compromise the sustainability of the welfare community, and that more of those who could have worked get a job through a better inclusion policy. All these are challenges that we have to address. This is also beyond climate change and environmental challenges, which we must address before it is too late. These are major challenges for the Norwegian welfare community, and in order to solve them and at the same time ensure that Norway is the world's best country to live in, we need to create more jobs and qualify people for these jobs. In particular, we need more jobs in the private sector – we have been clear about that. It's the jobs in the private sector that enable the well-being we want all the Nordics to enjoy. The key to achieving this is that we have a secure society, a society in which we have a defence that can guarantee our peace and freedom, and a police force that can provide security for all citizens in everyday life. There has not been a lack of challenges for the future, and I think it has been a good debate on that. We'll probably disagree with the emphasis on boasting of what's gone well, and emphasising what someone thinks is going bad, but we've at least felt that we've been focusing on the future and what challenges Norway is facing. We've gone through the proposals that exist, and the Right, including the other government parties, I think, are going to vote against all the proposals – not because everyone is bad, some of which we necessarily disagree with, but there are also some proposals on matters that are already under way, and where one can see that one has intended to put forward or is going to put forward policies, things that the government is working on. It is also, as I said, some of the proposals that we simply disagree with. So I recommend the Right-wing Representatives to vote against the proposed proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1850	You have to be a little careful about thanking you for the debate too early, because suddenly we're going back to work, but now it's coming to the end. I want to grasp something that the representative Sverre Myrli said yesterday. He said that during this government, that is, the blue-green, society is changing – not dramatically, but there are small steps in the wrong direction. The truth is, there's a big step in the right direction. We have implemented large tax reductions, not least for businesses, in order to secure jobs. It's being criticized, even by those involved in the tax settlement. At the same time, we are making a huge effort in some very important areas of Norwegian society and for the future. We're betting on infrastructure, it's building a road and a track like never before. It can't be disputed. We're betting on education and competence. It is very important for our children and young people to be as well equipped as possible for the future and the requirements to be set. We're betting on the health and justice sector. We're raising the municipal economy, and we're not least lifting the care and the psychiatry. We can do this, for example: because we have a high and good tax entry. Oil price falls and recession have turned to growth and record low unemployment, and things are going well throughout the country, not just in central struts. When I say ‘the whole country’, I also include primary industries. Work and self-sufficiency are probably also an important goal for the Workers' Party and the rest of the opposition, because it is the whole foundation of our well-being. ‘Prosperity in Welfare’ has become a new political motto. Yes, we find examples of some private suppliers both exploiting and enriching contracts with the public, and we find examples of some in public positions doing the same. We're not going to accept that anyway. But that is not the rule, and that is precisely why it is so important not to destroy the good interaction and competition between the public and private sectors, nor in the welfare sector. I would like to thank you for the debate and turn to an explanation of vote on the proposals. I can actually support what Trond Helleland said, but I would also like to stress that there are some of these proposals that are not necessarily based on completely correct facts. There are some premises that we may not fully agree with, but in any case: the Progress Party will also vote against all the proposals, including those on the agenda. because part of the proposals opens open doors. In fact, work is in progress, not least on the basis of decisions taken by the Storting in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1875	Let me start with something quite specific: it is very good that the Right Party and the Advance Party are now finally expressing a positive opinion on church maintenance, because it had a common proposal in 2015 by the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, and was adopted against the votes of the Right Party and the Advance Party. Since then there has been no progress in this matter. Now it's been three years, and now it's got to be a step forward in that work. The centre party therefore hopes that the parties that supported it in 2015 will also secure a majority for such a move today. However, linking it to the regional reform, as Haukland's representative made in his speech, is a little sought after. I understand that one will link equally and differently to regional reform, but it is the municipalities that are currently responsible for our oldest churches, and what they need is not regional reform. What they need is state co-financing, simply, and that is what the proposal has been all about. So the center party is happy about that, if it's adopted, and we look forward to getting ahead on that matter. There's been a fairly broad debate on the throne. A very central theme today has been the debate on police reform. The government wants us to pay tribute to the work done, but they have little willingness to discuss the challenges associated with the reform. In many ways, I think that the government here presents a glossy picture that I think very many people out there don't recognize. There's something that is creeping around in the explanations that are given. Perhaps the government had insisted on recognising that this is a reform that is going to mean less presence and less prevention in the police. One should perhaps also admit that the cases are actually collapsing in such a way that it is appropriate for concern, because obviously there are a lot of people out in the police districts. It was also promised that the remaining offices would function better, be more open and have a stronger position, and I understand the disappointment of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party today that the office position has not improved – nor the police contacts, which were promised to have a significant role. It might give the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party a little signal of how one should not settle for this government. Because we're not making up these examples. There are people who react, and then you also have to listen to those people, and it's a challenge that the government in today's debate has answered with rehearsed phrases. Then there's probably someone who says that the police reform should have been done before, and that it was overly mature, but dear friend: this is the third police reform we've had in 20 years, and everyone's been about structural changes, and nothing has improved because things just need to get bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1890	I'm going to give the Prime Minister that she had a pretty effective rejection of my invitation to answer questions before today. Now she knows at least that I am looking forward to the first Question Time. I would nevertheless say that it is striking how little eager the Prime Minister is to answer exactly the questions related to inequality. The government has created a daily seminar on inequality, and the Prime Minister talked about differences in his statement, and I am pleased about it, because it is an agenda that we believe is absolutely necessary to put Norwegian policy in the future. But then it is also necessary to get clear answers from the government on what they think about the situation of those who are exposed to unsocial cuts over the years that this government has run, because the policy continues to go in the opposite direction to rhetoric. If it is important to create a sustainable welfare society, there must be social sustainability in what we do. We have to take care of the social contract that creates trust, which means that at the top they are not allowed to leave in terms of both power and wealth, as is happening in Norway now. Then we must pursue a welfare policy for the many, not for the few. That is why I continue to wonder what the Prime Minister thinks about our proposal to review the consequences for the disabled, for those who are dependent on housing support, and for various patient groups who are affected by cutbacks from this government. If the majority vote against our proposals today, it's close to believing that it's because they fear the answers. Similarly, I still wonder what the Prime Minister thinks about the pension from the first crown – not what is the Right’s position, but whether the Prime Minister is ready to admit that there is an injustice that needs to be solved in our pension system, when the hairdresser, the cleaner or the worker who has a small position in private health and care does not receive a pension for his work, while many who earn a lot more get it. That's what many people think is unfair, and it's interesting to know if the government also believes it. The right parliamentary leader said that most of them, hopefully, had said their own. Well, I hope we can keep going a little bit further, so we get the answer to this. It is striking how little the representatives of the government parties talk about what is the most important priority of economic policy, namely tax cuts, most of those who have the most from before, and what are the main structural measures of the government parties, namely unpopular coercion in local and regional reform and unpopular outsourcing of infrastructure and welfare. It's probably because the government parties know that central aspects of their policies are unpopular.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1904	Trontal debate 2018 is about to ebb out. The Prime Minister described the situation in the Kingdom in the summary of the debate well before today. There's a lot to rejoice about, especially for those who want to describe, not charismatic developments. There is little doubt that we are one of the world's most privileged national assemblies. We control one of the most resource-intensive countries in the world when it comes to material trade wealth, amazing natural resources to both benefit and benefit, a place of peace on earth with small differences, the screens for the worst climate change, and a very well-functioning democracy. Anyone who follows a little bit in Norwegian politics thinking about something of the curriculum in history from the People's School knows that this is not the result of one party or individual politicians' efforts. On the whole, I think I can rightly say that various parties, magnificence and governments, with the help of civil society, can take their share of the era and the responsibility that we have so well up here in the north. In this way, I believe that the political debate would also have stood out as to whether the parties were somewhat more vocal between themselves than what this debate has for some time been about – for which I must certainly take my share of responsibility. Of course, it is without concealing that there are differences, in part great differences, in ideology and in the positions of the individual parties. There is little doubt that after five years of good trust and cooperation on the part of the civil, non-socialist side, there have been better framework conditions for business, entrepreneurs, safe Norwegian jobs – of course, with good use of crown prices and interest rates, but definitely also the outcome of conscious venture capital access, research and technological development priorities. With the Left and Christian People's Party at the head, which both saw the human being, not the system, in the centre, there is today an entirely different commitment to the fight against child poverty, early action, at school – of course with the help of liberal access to oil fund crowns, but it had not been done without conscious priorities and efforts. And although it is still too late to reduce greenhouse gas emissions quickly enough, there is a completely different pace and more targeted investment today than was the case in the autumn of 2013. If there is one area where the Left really appreciates kicking in the back and pulling help from the opposition, it is precisely in climate policy. I take the opportunity to take advantage of the opportunity to thank you for the debate, and I can promise that the Left will help to make future debates and decisions clearer, greener and more social liberals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1921	When the entire party leadership is on the move, it has become my lot to say something at last on behalf of the Christian People's Party – and then you can wonder why they are traveling. Yesterday, my party leader, once again, said something very wise and important – namely, that we need a holistic view of human beings in politics as well. The role of the Christian People's Party in Norwegian politics is to work for a warmer society, firmly anchored in our Christian culture and values. A warmer society acknowledges that we are more than customers or consumers, that we need small and large communities that contribute to giving life-thinking and belonging to the individual. Working for a warmer society is also about securing an inviolable human dignity from the beginning of life to the end of life. In this throne debate, the Christian People's Party has called for a child reform. Child reform should benefit children and families. They shall have a better working day with more time for each other and with increased financial security. We know that we're totally dependent on getting the birth figures up. This was also something my party leader was interested in. We depend on it to safeguard our welfare society for future generations. But for the Christian People's Party, it's more than socio-economic considerations. For the Christian People's Party, it's about good families being the most important building block in society, and we think it shouldn't be the wallet that determines how many children you can have. What we will address in our child reform is a fairer parental pension scheme, enhanced child welfare and better multi-child schemes. There are some of the important actions the Christian People's Party will prioritise in the future. The Christian People's Party has always been and will continue to be on the family side. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for a good debate. As an explanation of vote, I would like to say on behalf of the Christian People's Party that we are going to support the proposal of the Central Party. 19 and 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1936	I would also like to thank the Stortinget for the debate we have had. We have started the session's work well, and the working life is changing a lot, which the debate has also reflected. Several of us have just addressed the challenges of creating a more inclusive working life. Even outside the workplace, there have been quite significant changes in society, especially for young people, in recent years when we know that the number of mental disorders is growing. I notice that the Prime Minister also has a strong personal commitment to the mental health of young people. There is something I can also warn that the Greens will follow a lot in the future. I have great expectations for the escalation plan, which we may see from when the state budget comes on Monday. There I expect fresh money, and I also expect a message to the municipalities to include young people in the roll-out of that plan. In the case of young people, municipal discussions on the offer shall also take place. There is also reason enough about these changes in working life and society to see in several ways how to organise working life and much of the time we adults spend at work. The LO wants a reduced working time plan. So does the Greens. So I've recorded that the Right spinal reflex is saying no, as they've done through the history many times, but it's actually gone well before. So as I was in the past, over the last hundred years, we've reduced working time by 20 hours a week, and we've gone from zero vacations to five weeks vacations. The changes have happened very gradually, and our economy has tolerated it. It's been very well. Only in the last fifty years has our purchasing power tripled. It is important for me to stress that we do not propose to reduce working time by 7.5 hours tomorrow. Nor do we say that we have decided what the reform will look like – whether it will reduce working hours per day, or that we will work one day less a week, or that we will take more vacations. And perhaps at any rate, some of that flexibility should also be up to the workers through the life cycle of the working life. I want to see if it is possible to achieve a reform that takes into account that we have different needs in different stages of life. That pressure and stress lead to more people falling out of work or unable to stand in full employment, Stortinget cannot stand and watch. I believe that the grip on re-viewing a reform of working time in Norway is something that can solve several challenges in the changes we see in our working life, at the same time. We can get to a more inclusive, equal work life, where fewer people have involuntary part-time, more flexibility for the employee, and that more people can share the jobs at a time when the NHO also announces that there will be a great deal of shortage of jobs in the future. I hope that there will be broad support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1947	Ten years ago, the Equal Opportunities Commission came with its recommendation, after several years of thorough work. Their main recommendation was an equal pay pot to settle the injustice that wages are much lower in many professions where there are many women than in many human-dominated professions. The Commission was chaired by the former leader of the Central Party, Anne Enger, and the Senter Party supported the proposal for a separate equal pay pot. One year later, Siv Jensen called for an extreme party compromise on equal pay, in cooperation with the trade union movement. In the previous period, the Christian People's Party voted in favour of the following proposals: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the pay gap between women and men can be reduced and eliminated by means of an equal pay pot.’ Just two and a half weeks ago, the Vice President of the Workers' Party, Hadia Tajik, said that the government's plan is to say, here we have an equal pay pot, we're helping to put money on the table to actually get the balance of the differences that we're out here to do. So there's been a lot of good opinions from a lot of parties about equal pay and a lot of sensible opinions in the media. Another thing is to vote in favour of proposals that can get something done about it. Red proposes today that the Stortinget ask the government to present a case to raise the pay level of women’s dominated professions in the public sector and to obtain an assessment of an equal pay pot. I hope that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party can secure a majority for such a sensible proposal. We have experienced Right's new tactics in the throne debate, which is to boast that Red has indeed deceived the Workers' Party. Yes, we're going to have a reward for moving Norwegian policy in the right direction on some important points, but unfortunately, Gahr's Støre Rødt policy does not lead. The Labour Party is not yet ready to support a profit ban in welfare, here in the Stortinget, and has not voted in favour of the proposals we have promoted when it comes to that area. We've also seen the effects, I think, of the meeting that was between the Right and the NHO in August, where they were going to go to the barricades, as they said, for commercial care. This fight is going on. We've moved the Storing in the right direction, to some degree, but we're very close to the goal. This will be a major issue in the coming period, also with room for permeability for the only sensible thing: that money allocated to well-being goes to well-being, and not to build up difficult, private assets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1965	First, a explanation of vote: the centre party will vote in favour of the SV's proposal and for proposal No. 16, from the Workers' Party. When I have the opportunity, I can't dare to allow myself a little comment completely on the tap. Today early Prime Minister Erna Solberg stressed that if the Christian People's Party changes sides, they go to a possible minority government. Then I think it's in my place to stress the fact that today's government is also a minority government, and there's nothing wrong with it. The main rule in Norway is that we have it — minority governments — and that it uses to do well with minority governments in Norway. I think I have to be allowed to underline that, because a former State Council from the Progress Party was standing on this pulpit last night and said that the majority was given renewed confidence in the elections last autumn. But they didn't. No, the Right Party of Advancement and the Left all went back at the elections last fall, and they lost the majority they had in the previous period. Maybe there's some of the rug for the situation that we're in today. If the government parties do not have their minority in mind, there is a risk that they have either taken or take the Christian People's Party for granted. I don't know about that, but I think a wise reminder to the whole Big One is not taking anything for granted. I think that might be a good reminder for all of us in the autumn before us, and by that I would like to say thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1974	It was Breivik's posts that made me take the word again, because one of the things that this harvest really should lead to is that we agree to make a new climate settlement in the Stortinget. There's tradition for that, and there's a need for that. We also have a good tradition between the environmental parties in Norway to be able to agree on environmental policy despite the fact that we are on different sides of the block divide, because environmental policy has very often been a matter of consensus and disagreement across traditional blocks. It has also been used to imply a certain humility from the environmental party that is in position at all times, i.e. an understanding that, in cooperation with parties belonging to the still grey majority of Norwegian politics, it is limited how far one comes. And it's also used to mean roughness from the other environmental parties. When SV put in government, we were very clear that yes, we are proud of many results, but the climate problem is so big, there is so much urgency that we would like to do much more, and we had good dialogue with the Left about it – good support from the Left, even. But in this debate, I think I've seen too much self-fulfilling Left, and that really worries me. The worst outcome is the preliminary refusal to conclude a climate settlement. It makes sense for environmental parties – it has always been – to try to create a situation where as many parties as possible are involved in and committed to climate policy, and I am surprised if the Left ends up being satisfied with negotiating climate policy in closed spaces with the Right and the Progress Party. So this autumn should now, before this debate is over, be followed up with clear answers from the Prime Minister to the questions of inequality that I raised instead, and then it should be followed up with a continuing work – and hopefully after each agreement – for us to make a new climate settlement. So I'd like to give you an explanation of vote. First, I just want to make it clear that we have provided a small correction to proposal No. 6 and clarified that there is free legal aid the proposal is about. And then the SV Group will vote in favour of all the proposals promoted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1983	Like the representative Arnstad, I was a little surprised yesterday about this issue of the government being re-elected, and that it had been given a new mandate. Now a part of this harvest is about the Advance Party and the view of cooperation with them, but it is well that it is only the Right Party and the Advance Party that have actively joined the Advance Party in government in a way, and the government parties went back more than the other parties did in sum. The representative of Greece has received a witness of truth, the Bears of Moxnes from Red. It is a good man, and he has now confirmed that Gahr Støre does not conduct Red policy, so then this matter is settled for one that Greece believes in. The Labour Party is pursuing social-democratic policies and will continue to do so. Let me end with this with retirement. I see that as a topic that affects many parts of the policy. Firstly, we should take it seriously when one million people work in Norway experience that the system is unfair, and it is actually for people who work and don't get the pension that people in the public sector and many in the private sector get. It's about closing holes, and I think it contributes to the line of work by getting back for your work in a fair way. And it contributes to the legitimacy of the pension reform – around the pension system – that will be passed through many crime lakes in the future when the population changes. I believe that this also affects the theme that many have talked about here in the Chamber, namely the development towards inequality and differences. Here's a clear germ of inequality and differences, and it once again shows that you're going to talk about it and take care of it, it costs something. It also affects trust, which we often use in the debate, we are concerned with trust. It's not a good thing for trust that a million people experience what they do. Is it expensive? Well, it depends on the consensus we get in Stortinget. Audun Lysbakken and I have made a proposal, something is to be negotiated here in Stortinget, and of course we will listen to all the recordings that have come to the hearing and from many other teams outside the hearing. Every year, the majority of this room has opened for over 20 billion. kr in tax cut – and the Prime Minister warns against this, because she believes it can cost 3–4 billion. NOK if this is done. I've seen numbers that are much lower, and the final model is not defined. I hope we can have a good conversation in Stortinget when we negotiate a pension agreement from the first kroner. There's not one model that's going to solve it, it could be multiple. I think it's important for the pension system, for justice, for legitimacy, for trust and for having an action that actually counteracts inequality in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e1998	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e2010	We're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e2019	A total of 24 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–15, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 16, from Jonas Gahr Støre on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 17-22, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 23, from the Bears of Moxnes on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. proposal No 24, from the Bears of the Moxnes on behalf of the Red There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case to raise the level of pay in the women’s dominated professions in the public sector and to assess an equal pay pot for them, which will be added to the regular wage bill and distributed after negotiations between the parties.’ Socialist Left Party has notified support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e2054	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-12 and No 14 and 15, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine the impact on those affected by the housing aid cuts in recent years. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine the consequences for those affected by the cuts in disability caused by the government’s unfair conversion model from old to new disability schemes. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine the consequences for those affected by the cuts in the children’s allowances. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government asks the government to examine the consequences for those who are hit by four years of purchasing power for many old-age pensioners. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the consequences for those affected by child-restraint cuts for children in Finnmark and Nord-Troms. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the consequences for those affected by the continuous cuts in free legal aid. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine the consequences for those affected by the transitional aid cuts for lone dependants. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the consequences for those who are hit by the cuts in social benefits to the car for those who depend on it to get to the store or to the doctor. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the consequences for those affected by the cuts in free physiotherapy for burns, people with developmental disabilities, amputees and all the other groups that now have to pay for this important treatment. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the consequences for those affected by the birth-care cuts. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government asks the government to examine the consequences for those affected by the cut in redundancy payments. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to examine the consequences for those affected by the cuts in the criminal justice system and the courts. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The government asks the government to examine the consequences for those affected by the fact that families with children in reception cannot receive more than NOK 10 000 in monthly social benefits regardless of the number of children they have. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to examine the distributional consequences of the cuts in property taxes and inheritance taxes on the distribution in society and whether any impact on business can be demonstrated. The results of the study shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State Budget for 2020.» The Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e2138	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the consequences that the hospitals did not get the 75 million that the government itself says it cost when the hospitals were responsible for the infringement. The results of the survey shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e2157	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that good and voluntary processes should be the starting point for changes in the state structure. Associations of counties shall be based on voluntary activity. In cases where there is no wish to do so, the aggregations shall not be carried out.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e2176	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 22, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a communication on taxes analysing effects on, inter alia, distribution, employment, value creation and jobs throughout the country and providing the basis for a better and more predictable charging policy.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a grant scheme to cover the costs of shipments of waste following voluntary grubbing-up operations. The new regime must be seen in the context of the regime already in place for action against marine pollution and microplastics.» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e2201	There is a vote on proposal No. Eighteen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to provide a big deal on a stronger commitment to bioenergy.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e2218	There is a vote on proposal No. Nineteen, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to initiate dialogue with the Norwegian Church, the Employer’s Organisation for Churches, the KS, relevant voluntary cultural memory organisations and other stakeholders on how to develop a reinforced strategy for the maintenance of cultural-historically important churches.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e2235	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for amendments to the provisions on the coverage of archaeological surveys in the case of extensions and new buildings on general farms, in order to ensure that the general rule is that, through a grant scheme, the State covers the costs of such surveys.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e2252	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-one, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch the project of purchasing new tanks for the Mechanised Manoeuvring Departments in the Army during 2018.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e2271	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘A power investigation with particular emphasis on structures and the balance of power in the world of work is under way.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e2290	The President will propose that His Majesty the King's speech to the 163rd Great by its opening and Notice of the state and government of Norway be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-04.ana.ud385e2343	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
