ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e70	Honourable co-representatives! Former depositor Terje Knudsen passed away on 20 November 2017, 75 years old. Terje Knudsen was in the period 1997 to 2001 a major representative of the Progress Party and was a member of the SSC of Storting. He was also head of the Progress Party Group in Hordaland County from 1991 to 1997 and Vice-Chairman of the Hordaland Progress Party from 1994 to 1996. Terje Knudsen had a varied professional career, worked for both the shipping industry, industry and various sales activities as well as his political work. Before Terje Knudsen became active in the Progress Party, he was an active municipal politician for the Bergen Right. Terje Knudsen also took on a number of public functions and was active in a number of boards and selections. Terje Knudsen was, through his work at many levels, an important co-worker for the Progress Party, until he became an independent representative from March 2001. A long life of political activity is now over. We bring peace to Terje Knudsen's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e93	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the West-Agder countries: Odd Omland For Akershus County: Liv Gustavsen For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Steinar Neess Two permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Else-May Botten, on Wednesday, 5 December by the Socialist Left Party Group on sick leave for the representative of Solfrid Lerbreck as from 5 December and until further notice, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Anne Kristin Bryne For Rogaland County: Eirik Faret Sakariassen
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e145	Anne Kristin Bryne and Eirik Faret Zechariah are present and will take the seat. The representative Per Espen Stoknes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e153	I would like to make a proposal for a representative on economic transparency regarding the Stortingen guidelines on the use of grants for large-scale groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e158	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e166	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Roald Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Roald Hansen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should derogate from the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after case No. 1 has been completed, and then total voting according to case No. 2-8 at the end of today's meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e190	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in an incredibly complicated and comprehensive case. The issue we are dealing with today concerns issues of important social security, which are intended to ensure that police and defence can secure citizens in a threat situation, and that important functions such as water supply, electricity, telecommunications and other important functions can be secured, if necessary, by security forces. The case has a long history. Following the terrorist incidents on 22 July 2011, an overall increase in police and defence cooperation was expected. Instructions on the protection and protection of objects through the use of defence and police forces in peace, crisis and war, the so-called object protection directive, were one of the measures to achieve it. The Special Committee, led by Knut Arild Hareide, was clearly in expectation that the time limits for securing were to be met in line with the requirements of the Safety Act and the Regulation on Object Safety. In the examination of the Riksrevisions Document 1 for 2016-2017 and Appendix No. 1 to Document 1 for 2016-2017, it became clear that neither the basic protection under the Object Safety Regulation nor the hedged forces under the Object Protection Instructions were in line with the Storting assumptions. At the time of the examination of these documents — and an open and closed consultation in this regard — the members of the government were given the impression that the situation was better than the report at the time. The treatment at that time ended with very strong criticism of the government's lack of follow-up to Stortingen's assumptions and the very special fact that the Stortinget unanimously asked the Riksrevision for a new report, to clarify the status at the time of treatment. Despite strong criticism, the Prime Minister did not take part in the debate in Stortinget on the matter. It is the new report, the Riksrevision's study on the follow-up of object safety, Document 3:11 for 2017-2018, which is the basis for the setting we now have for treatment. As part of the discussion, the Committee has asked a number of questions to the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister. We have held an open and closed consultation with current and former state councils, current trade unions and Prime Minister. The report shows that the government's presentation of the previous case was a makeup of reality. The report we are now considering, and have worked on in the committee, has shown that there is still a lot to be done before securing important objects in society is what the Stortinge has foreseen. About the police, the Riksrevision says that the basic protection of protective objects is still inadequate. During the Committee's work, it has been published by the Prime Minister that only two of the twelve shielded objects are virtually secured in line with the regulations. Nor did the Stortinge’s assumption that the Ministry’s proposals for the State budget must reflect the need to ensure protective features were followed up by specific funds in the 2018 budget. That is why the Riksrevision says: ‘The Court of Auditors takes a very serious view that the basic protection of protective features is not a priority of the Ministry of Justice and Defence.’ ‘Very serious’ is the strongest criticism that can be used by the National Audit Office and refers to circumstances where the consequences for society or the citizens concerned are very serious, such as: the risk to life and health. In the case of the defence, the Riksrevision continues: ‘The ground protection of the displayable objects is still deficient.’ The defence does not have ‘a comprehensive overview of the condition’ at the end of 2017. [[...]] So at the end of 2017, the defense does not have a complete overview of the state. They go on to say, ‘Deficient basic protection of the shielding features of the Defence may lead to the loss of important functions in the event of adverse events.’ [[...]] And... ‘The Court of Auditors takes a very serious view that the Ministry of Defence has not taken the necessary steps to improve the basic protection of the shielding features of the Defence.’ The National Audit Office points out that the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence have improved the follow-up to police and defence use of security forces. But there is still much to be done before the decisions and assumptions of the Storting have been followed up. That is the point the members of the government and the representatives of the government parties most often point to in this report, as an example of much work being done. But then it's part of the story that also at that point the Riksrevision uses the expression "very serious" about today's status. A theme that has re-examined in the previous report, in this report and in the hearings is the lack of common understanding of the object protection directive. In spite of the fact that the Chief of Defense, the Head of Police Directorate and the Prime Minister claim that there is no disagreement between the Defence and the police about the understanding of the instructions, the Minister of Justice said in his letter to the Riksrevision: ‘I see, like the National Audit Office, the need to review and, where appropriate, revise the instructions with a view, inter alia, to clarify responsibilities and the understanding and cooperation between the two sectors.’ Only now has the work started, although the previous report showed clearly that this was one of the key problems. Also with regard to the defence process with the designation of civil key objects, it is pointed out that it has been poorly followed up. Lack of adequate safeguards may have implications for preventive State security. The National Audit Office further points out that there is still a lack of clarification and analysis of the capacity of the police and Home Security authorities to secure and protect objects using security forces. Neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Police Directorate has an overview showing police capabilities to secure and protect objects. When we see the report from the National Audit Office, which we are now dealing with, it becomes clear that last year the members of the government drew a makeup picture of the actual situation. The government did not inform about the expected cost of securing the police's own objects. It has not notified the Stortinget that the police's objects will only be secured once in the 2020s. It has not notified that the defence will have secured its objects only in 2025, 10 years after the deadline, nor notified of the expected costs of the security measures. Instead of taking all the documented deficiencies seriously, the government’s propaganda apparatus has deployed all the resources to try to misplace and de-dramatise the content of the report. First of all, Minister of Justice and Defence Tor Mikkel Wara, who, in the news of the day on 7 June, just after the report was presented, stated that the report concerned only the own construction of the police and the defence. It was even more serious that Prime Minister Erna Solberg, in a televised party leader debate from Arendal in August, said: ‘No, it’s not about water and electricity. It is about the police's own buildings and the defence's own buildings.» [[...]] And she said, ‘This is one thing: the physical buildings of the police and the defence.’ These claims are directly incorrect. They show that the Prime Minister does not take matters sufficiently seriously. In the 2013 election campaign, Erna Solberg said: ‘That’s why I have always thought that good politicians can’t concentrate on being offensive in the media, they have to follow up their decisions, dry off engaging in the details and how the policy actually works for ordinary people. [[...]] This is where I believe the Stoltenberg government has failed the most. There has been too much media management and too little implementation. That is why I believe that the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's office must take responsibility for their implementation." It is in stark contrast to the fact that Prime Minister Solberg, who is also the head of the Government's security commission, admits that she did not know how bad object protection was before the Riksrevision presented its first report. It is also inappropriate that, in the previous consultation, she pointed out that a misreport by Minister of Justice Anundsen in the 2016 budget is not capable of distinguishing between reporting on the situation following the instructions and following the regulation — even referring to the entire justice sector, which is far more than the police’s own objects. Hardly randomly, the Prime Minister chose to lay the foundation of the seriously delayed response centre in Taraldrud a few days before open consultation in the committee. There she revealed that the police were responsible for the basic security of 12 objects, four of them would get their solution when the emergency centre was put into service. At the same time, it was revealed that only two out of 12 objects have – with some exceptions – satisfactory protection. It was with great surprise the committee registered that the prime minister thus referred to the information we knew from the non-public parts of the report, when it took care of her media management. It was therefore natural for an overall committee to ask for an overview of which parts of the non-public part of the report could be released. As a result, there is now a report with a great deal of gossip. But I can say so much as that what is still outside of publicity, more detailedly substantiates the basis of the Riksrevision's strong criticism in the open part of the report. One of the things that emerges clearly is that when Chief HV, Eirik Kristoffersen, in the hearing, claims that more HV areas than in 2014 are more ready to respond by the end of 2017, it is wrong – without me being able to refer to the actual figures. Neither the Minister of Defence nor the Prime Minister has so far corrected this misinformation in the hearing, but they will have the opportunity later today. In large parts of the setting, there is consensus. The seriousness is underlined by the strong criticism of the government, which is also promoted by the government parties. In fact, a large part of the critical comments in this setting is a unanimous committee behind it. Therefore, I hope that after this treatment – if the government continues to sit – the setting will lead the government to take responsibility for security more seriously, that the Prime Minister will follow up matters below, and that we will have a comprehensive and comprehensive review of plans and expected progress and costs in securing critical objects for society, as a unanimous committee requires in the vote. It is very serious when the government does not follow up the Storting's assumption of important social security, in the light of the Constitutional Law in Section 82: ‘The Government shall communicate to the Storting all the information necessary for the handling of the matters it submits. No member of the Government shall provide incorrect or misleading information to the Storing or its organs.’;» In this respect, it is very serious and highly critical, in the majority’s view, that the Stortingen has not been properly informed by the government on the situation, on expected costs and on progress. In the light of the Committee's view, it is necessary to present the following proposals for decisions, which are also set out: ‘The government’s regrets the lack of follow-up of object protection with regard to the basic protection of protective features and the protection and protection of objects by the use of security forces from the police and the Defence of Home Affairs, including the lack of information to the Government on deferrals and costs.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e279	The National Audit Board’s follow-up report on the government’s work on object security has been widely discussed in the Committee. It has been a demanding job. Firstly, this latest report deals with a very short period of time. Everyone in this room knows that comprehensive action cannot be taken without going through thorough investigations and that economic arrangements must be made through the milestones underlying the work of the Stortinge. It takes longer than the report deals with. It has therefore been impossible to process the report without looking at what has been the basis of object protection work, starting almost ten years ago until today, and looking at how work started in 2017 has led to results and follow-up after the end of the report. Secondly, it has been difficult to get an overview and an understanding of the changes that are constantly taking place, affecting both the choice of solutions and the need for security by the police and the defence to be implemented. Both changes in the external threat picture and the development of new technical solutions make entirely different solutions today than was the case just a few years ago. Thirdly, I have to say that it has been difficult to relate to such a large material. Very demanding is also the material raised after a whole of 44 questions from the Committee or members of the Committee to the Government, with comprehensive and clear answers from the Government. However, it deserves a comment that the comprehensive question and the equally comprehensive answers do not appear in any way to have contributed to or reflected in the comments written in the case. It's for thought. The two hearings of the Committee on the matter provided further insight into the challenges facing the government and the work done to secure central features. When the government of Stoltenberg laid down the safety regulations for its work with effect from 1 January 2011, it was clear that there was in no way today’s need for protection underpinning neither deadlines nor economic priorities. It was established that the new provisions themselves would not entail significantly increased costs and would be implemented within three years. In retrospect, there is no doubt that the assumptions were unrealistic. This was also confirmed by the Chief of Defence Haakon Bruun-Hanssen, who said at the open hearing in Stortinget on 27 August this year: ‘The competence and resource need to map and describe the large number of displayable objects has been far more demanding than initially assumed in 2011. The need for resources to implement measures is also far more extensive and time consuming than initially foreseen. This is, in my opinion, the main reason why the time limit laid down in the regulation has not been complied with.» At the same hearing, the Director of the National Security Authority, Kjetil Nilsen, had a similar conclusion in response to why the protection of vulnerable objects in the justice and defence sectors is not in place: ‘One reason for this is that the resource needs of the implementation of the Feature Security Code under the Safety Act in 2011 were assessed too low. In retrospect, there has been a greater need for resources both in terms of economics and in terms of available competences.’» It is clear that on several occasions it would have been natural to take a foot in the ground and to make assumptions and deadlines realistic. It was already clear in 2012/2013 that neither the financial assumptions nor the deadlines could be met. It would then have been natural to put in place realistic assumptions for the work. After the government change in 2013 and the extension of the one-year period, it was also not realistic to complete the hedge as foreseen. I understand that communication to the Stortinget is demanding in cases where several departments have different, independent tasks, while these are part of a whole. It requires someone to take overall responsibility for the overall communication. Once the government in budgetary propositions has notified its bets and dispositions, this has been important feedback, but it has not been suitable to give the Storting an overall insight into the status of securing display objects. That is why I also understand that there is criticism of the government for a lack of information on new plans and objectives for implementing the measures. I am therefore very pleased that, particularly the Prime Minister, but also several of the Councils, at the hearing in August was so clear in the recognition that this should have been notified back to Stortinget in another way. The Prime Minister said this: ‘Knowledge of the complexity and demanding object protection work has been a gradual recognition. I see that this is something my government should communicate earlier and more clearly and more collectively to Stortinget, and I take it for myself – on behalf of the government. So we should have given more general information about this." It's a confession and feedback it says respect for. The Prime Minister's follow-up with concrete promise to get to Stortinget with further answers to updated plans should also give the Stortinget confirmation of the government's willingness to complete the work. Her statements show that she takes this matter very seriously, and this provides a good basis for the government's further work. The main outcome of the National Audit Office’s reports and debates here in Stortingen must be that the work on object protection is intensified and completed through concrete plans and the allocation of resources. It's good to see the work on object protection going forward. Still more objects are secured. Other features have been given temporary solutions pending more comprehensive and time-consuming final solutions. Further plans for securing and new solutions for the remaining objects we know today are being systematically worked on. However, it is important to bear in mind that objects and security needs are constantly changing, and that there will always be some new objects under investigation or work going on. This is a natural part of the continuous effort to ensure critical infrastructure. It's a fact that completed object protection has been, and is, a moving goal. Both in the 2017 budget and in their 2019 budget proposal, the government has shown in concrete terms that they are following the offensive plans they have announced. Police ICT security has been a priority, and efforts to do so through the last year’s budgets have resulted in substantial changes in infrastructure and data centres being secured under new safety laws. The large investments that provide the basis for the police to have modern and forward-looking training facilities and locations secured in line with the requirements of the new Security Act have received the necessary funding. Plans to ensure that all screening features in the police are properly secured during 2020 are on track. Also in the defence budget is the work on object protection provided resources that enable the work to be carried out. The defense has a very large number of single points to ensure, but it is also important to remember that some of these objects are located in areas that have an external security and good security. This means that the more vulnerable points can be prioritised in the first place. Home security is better rusted than in a very long time. Through several non-social budgetary settlements, HV has been given the means to re-establish a long-term lag in maintenance, spare parts and ammunition, and HV is now given the means to systematically carry out good practice. I am surprised to note that the opposition does not seem to have confidence in either the head of defence or HV and states that the answer, chief of HV, gave in the hearing, does not correspond to their own perception of the actual situation, and therefore is wrong. It is very special that members of the Stortinget rely on better detailed knowledge and assessment of this than top qualified leaders of the Defence. For our part, we have no reason to doubt Eirik Johan Kristoffersen's summation of the filling up of the Home Guard Emergency Reserves, nor his conclusion that: ‘The operational status of Home Protection has been continuously improving in recent years.’ Although the number of policemen is not directly related to object protection, this is also part of the total response effort of this government. Since the government joined, the police staff has increased by approx. 2 600 annual works. Of this, approx. 1 500 years of police work. The target of two police officers per 1000 inhabitants by 2020 is on track. It contributes to increased security for the population. So to a couple of points in the National Audit Office's report that, in my opinion, doesn't give a properly leftover impression. In the report, the Riksrevision criticises the Police Directorate and the Defence for the lack of a common understanding of the object protection directive. This is clearly rejected from both political and professional leadership. After a thorough check in their organisations, they can conclude that this is not the case. There has been a discussion about the timing of a review of the instructions, and the parties have agreed to start this work when new law and the National Audit Office's report are in place, but the report adds a negative to the parties here that is not real. Also, with regard to the criticism of temporary compensatory measures for objects waiting for a new location, there is a strange observation. The National Audit Office points out that there are no concrete plans for compensatory measures pending final basic insurance. Of course, this is true, as compensatory measures have been established. If they had fully satisfied the requirements of the Security Act, they would not have been temporary compensatory measures. It is claimed that the government has not prioritised object protection. It's obviously wrong. What has been done on object protection has actually happened to Erna Solberg as Prime Minister. Over tough years of refugee crisis, oil price falls and high unemployment, however, the government has cut over 7 billion. kr on the civil side and approximately 10 brd. to the defence sector for enhanced preparedness and object protection. This is a priority! So it's the opposition's right to think it's too small. That criticism would be a lot more credible if they themselves had made completely different priorities in this area, which I can't see is the case. In particular, when the red-green government resigned in 2013, two months before the expiry of the deadline in the regulation, there was no indication that it had prioritised this work. Of course, there is no excuse for the sitting government, but when it always refers to the original deadlines, it must be appropriate to point out that this was a demanding starting point. Finally, I must say that I am surprised that so much of the political environment seems to be more concerned with a political game around the matter than quickly to put in place the necessary protection of objects, increased preparedness and security so that we can defend ourselves in the event of crises or threats. It is good for the government to take that responsibility and now clearly answer this to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e340	The national audit studies are important, especially in areas where public authorities are to provide safety and security to citizens. In its report, the National Audit Board has made strong criticisms of the follow-up to object security. This is a criticism to be taken seriously. And taking this seriously is about delivering – providing security and security to the inhabitants. Let me therefore make it clear immediately that the Group of the Advance Party has full confidence that today's government is delivering on this important mission. At the same time, we are pleased that the Prime Minister has been clear that progress in this demanding work should have been continuously communicated to Stortinget, so that the complexity and costs of this work – and that the timetable proposed would not have been kept – had come to light. Let me take a brief look: the Special Committee, set up after the 22nd of July, provided that all objects should be classified by the end of 2012, and that the implementation of security measures should take place as soon as possible and no later than three years after the entry into force of the Object Safety Regulation, i.e. during 2013. The Committee stressed the importance of its follow-up within the specified time limits. We know in retrospect that neither the classification nor the implementation of object protection measures was carried out by the previous government as foreseen. This should have been in place two months after the government's resignation in 2013. In other words, everything that has been done in this area has been done in practice by the current government. In addition, the time-limits and costs involved in the implementation of the Object Safety Regulation were unrealistic. We see that very clearly in retrospect. The Regulation entered into force on 1 January 2011. In Ot.prp. No 21 for 2007-2008, which was presented by the Red-Green Government, we can read on page 42 that it was considered that ‘the proposals taken together should not involve significantly increased costs’. In kilograms. Res. from October 2010, where the regulation entered into force, it states that ‘the new provisions therefore do not entail new costs in themselves’. In retrospect, object protection has cost billions of dollars, and it will cost billions of dollars in the future to be invested. Therefore, the criticism that the Riksrevision targets in its document affects as much the previous government as it does at present when looking at what was done in advance and subsequently at adopted law and regulation, and what clear recommendations were there from the special committee. So what has today's government done in this area? The current government has cancelled over 7 billion. kr for civil protection measures and approx. 10 B.C.E. kr to the defence sector. Examples of this are new police helicopters, a police emergency room for $2.6 billion. kr, the joint counter-terrorist centre, the joint cyber coordination centre and the replacement of the defence radio line network with the fibre network. Only to replace the radio network is it set at 900 million. kr. Ørland Air Station has received increased appropriations of 1.6 billion. kr for protection and protection. In its position and comments, the Committee stressed that the Grand Duchy was the granting authority and also recalled that there was a broad consensus on the appropriations for these emergency measures. There are unanimous remarks that have been made today in this area. The opposition has shown that there are still large gaps, but has not even come up with a single penny in increased appropriations that have been earmarked for the purpose of the report and during the period covered by the report. Nevertheless, the opposition chooses to promote distrust of the government because it has not given enough money. Let me remind you again – as you say in a unanimous remark – that it is the Stortinge which is granting authority. It may also be worth remembering that there was no distrust of the then government of Stoltenberg after the 22nd of July terror, even though the Gjørv Commission, which then presented its report, made very clear criticism of the preparedness and lack of follow-up, among other things. in the case of the closure of Grubbegata in the Government Quarter and several other measures not implemented. The criticism that then emerged from the Commission's report is probably the strongest criticism that is directed at some government ever. Nevertheless, the Storting concluded that the work to ensure the safety and security of the citizens was a work that we would jointly deliver, and it was concluded that there should be no distrust of the sitting government at that time. Today, when we take stock of the situation, we can see that all the measures proposed by the Gjørv Commission and the Special Committee are either implemented or implemented. Many of the measures are of a continuous nature. In this area, one will never completely reach the goal. The goal is moving all the time, and new measures must be taken continuously as the threat picture changes in the world. The list of measures following the terrorist attacks on 22 July is available in the Notice. St. 10 for 2016–2017, Risk in a Secure Society. The list is based on these recommendations – 31 recommendations of the Commission and 14 decisions of the Specific Committee. It is then very exciting to read through and see that it is or will be delivered on this. Let me address several important aspects of this work that the government is delivering on. Home Security has a nationwide territorial responsibility, where the protection of the key points of Defence is the design of the Home Security strength structure. The structure shall also facilitate allies' reception, ensure the delivery of their own and other countries' forces and provide adequate situational understanding. Both the head of defence and the head of HV have been aware that the Home Office has sufficient capacity to secure all the key points. The National Audit Service assumes that Home Protection should be able to secure and protect all civil and military key objects, while also ensuring all objects that the police have pre-planned with the assistance of the Defence. This has never been the premise or the design of the structure of Homeland Protection. If such a situation should arise in Norway, then we will be at war, and then the total resources of the defence must be prioritised and used where they give the greatest fighting power and fighting ability. Furthermore, it should be noted that if civil objects are protected by military personnel in a war situation, these objects become a legitimate military objective. Only civil objects critical of their defence capability will be protected. Home security has been significantly strengthened in recent years through budgetary conciliation between the four non-socialist parties. Only in 2017 the Heimevertet was strengthened by 191 million. kr, e.g. to re-establish a long-standing aftermath on maintenance, spare parts and ammunition. It is of direct concern that the head of defence and the head of HV are not believed by the majority of the Committee when they say that the operational status of Home Security has improved in recent years with the introduction of new material and more time for practice. Then to the emergency centre at Taraldrud: After a long-standing localisation debate on a new emergency centre, the government decided in August 2012 that the emergency centre would be established at Alnabru. Project Alna, which started with a letter of assignment to Statsbyggen in February 2013, was completed when the draft project was in place in December 2014. The background was that the site at Alnabru was too small for the resources planned to be colocated there, that is, the police helicopter service, the emergency team, and the dog service in Oslo police district. One of the alternatives that existed when Alnabru was elected was the Lahaugmoen military camp, which was to be destroyed. This camp had many of the facilities needed — for example: 200 metres of firing range – and has a good location between the centre of Oslo and the Gardermoen. After Alnabru was elected, Lahaugmoen was sold to the private sector and thus not available as an alternative. In December 2017, the Stortinget adopted the establishment of the National Emergency Response Centre at Taraldrud, Ski Municipality, with a cost framework of 2.6 billion. kr and with a planned move by the end of 2020. The emergency centre shall address the need for improved training facilities and the necessary facilities for the emergency team, the bombing service, the crisis and hostage handlers and the helicopter service. When the opposition criticises the government for the fact that permanent basic protection is not in place on all the twelve shielding objects in the field of justice, they are largely co-responsible that this is not in place. The Emergency Response Centre will secure one third of the police protectionable objects. Had e.g. Lahaugmoen was elected instead of Alnabru by the Stoltenberg government, the emergency centre had probably been in place several years ago. In addition, it is very striking that the same batches that are now criticising the government for not delivering have tried to stop – or at least postpone – construction on Taraldrud, which would have further delayed the process considerably. We know this through proposals that the opposition has promoted, and the debate that has been held in the Committee on Justice. So to Ørland Air Station: When Ørland was selected as the main fighter base with Evenes as a forward-looking operating base in 2012, Ørland was planned to be built as a peace base. As a consequence of the change in the security policy image — with an increased need for protection and security — costs have increased by 1.6 billion. kr to secure this base alone. This was a little bit of an insight into the work the government has done in this area. Should you go through everything that has been done by action, probably the debate would have been extended by many hours. The government must have a good conscience for everything that has been delivered together with supporting parties in the Storting on the budgets for which it has been implemented. It is also important to point out that the threat picture against Norway is complex and that a one-sided focus on object protection may go beyond the protection of soft targets and cyberattacks by state actors. Much of the intelligence activity targeting Norway takes place in the digital space. In general, this activity is about collecting information, and the actors have both the ability and the ability to carry out cyberattacks. With regard to the terrorist threat, in its annual threat assessment, the PST has assessed it as ‘possible that attempted terrorist attacks will occur’. There are particularly soft targets that are exposed. A majority of the control committee has assembled on a proposal expressing distrust of the government. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the motion of censure is part of a political game in which the red-green parties should be too good to participate. As we in the Committee have gained insight into the work on this matter, there is no doubt that the government will deliver. There is no doubt that the preliminary work done by the previous government was too poor, and I remember that they even informed the Storting that this work ‘should not involve significantly increased costs’. Today we have the fasit. There is also something special to read in a committee position that the opposition must refer to a heated debate on the Eighth Day to try to justify its distrust of the government. It testifies to the fact that there are very bad arguments for this mistrust. We're now on the right track. It is provided for the safety and security of our citizens. There are several billion dollars invested in actions, to which I have referred. Reforms have been implemented in key sectors, both in justice and in defence, to adapt actions and services to today's societies and the threats and challenges we face today. In the Committee's position, I also register that, among other things: The centre party is very critical of all these reforms undertaken by the government and the majority of the population. They are being implemented precisely to adapt our actions to the situation we are facing today, not the one we stood for many years ago. It's important to note. We are not implementing these reforms because it is good to reform, but because it is necessary to reform. The Progress Party will contribute to the implementation of this work, and at the latest on Monday this week, the majority of the Storting, with the votes of the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, once again adopted a government budget with considerable commitment to this work. The Group of the Party of European Socialists will therefore vote against the I vote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e399	Our security is vulnerable. Over the past few years, both large and small events have shown us that in a short time, we can see that the security we expect is not there. We saw it in Aust-Finnmark last weekend, where both the net, the broadband, the mobile network and the fixed network were located in several municipalities and created difficulties for the inhabitants. We learned in the last week that the Swedish Food Safety Council has discovered that there is little notice in the business community about cyberattacks, and that four out of ten Norwegian companies have been exposed to breaches of information security. And we are constantly told that hackers break into e-mail accounts etc. Our foremost task as ombudsmen here at Stortinget is to secure the security of Norwegian citizens. The citizens should be sure that police and defence are there when it comes, and that they come. And we need to be sure that even if the defence authority is subjected to action, there should be plans to ensure that they can function even if they are to be framed. The question we have to ask ourselves today is: are we sure that they will come, and are we sure that they will come? Both the basic protection of protective objects in the police and the defence and the protection of objects by the police and the Home Office by the use of security forces are decisive for the security of Norway. The national audit has shown in two stages that we cannot be sure that the security is good enough. Realities may look worse after the last report came. Despite promises, there has been little progress, so the main question is now: Who should secure the inhabitants of a country if they are not the ones to secure them? That's what this object protection case is essentially about. It was the security of people who were among the most important matters Prime Minister Erna Solberg went to elections in 2013. Following the presentation of the July 22 report, Solberg said: ‘That’s why I have always thought that good politicians cannot concentrate on being offensive in the media, they must also follow up their decisions, dry down their involvement in the details and how the policy actually works for ordinary people.’ Six years have passed since the 22nd of July. What we have seen in the reports of the National Audit Office and in the two hearings we have had in the last few months is that they are still the words and not the action that has been the greatest. For more than two years, the government has had the opportunity to come to the Storting to tell us that the deadlines set by the Land-to-Land Object Protection Survey were too short. Size has not heard a split word. It was the Riksrevision, not the top responsible for our security, that made Stortinget aware that both police and defense were on the heels, and that much was not on the care. Over the years, our defence ministers and justice ministers have gone by, but the top in charge of security work in the government has been the same: Prime Minister Erna Solberg. She's the one with the main responsibility to coordinate security in our country. In two rounds she has acknowledged that she has not had control. The first time was March 21st, 2017, when in her earring in the Stortinget she said: ‘The government was not aware that the situation was like this until we actually received the Riksaudition report and got a status on it. That was when you first saw that it was worse." The second time she admitted that things were not going well, she was listening on 27 August 2018, when she said that they should have given the Storting more additional information, and that she took criticism of it. In the same ear, she said that she had been upresis in the previous earring, as did the fainting Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Although the Prime Minister has said that she could tell the Storting more clearly, before and more gathering, it is clear from my point of view that the top responsible for people's security has not been aware of the serious situation and how her government's work has failed this work. I want to say that from the start I have been in doubt if it would be right to do something that could indicate a lack of trust in this matter. But after the report was submitted, and especially after the two hearings we've done, I'm not in doubt. There is reason to ask why the government has not done what they said they would do, and not least because they have not done what they said they had done. There is also reason to ask for reasons for missing follow-up to basic police and defence security, and for the protection of our important institutions. There may be various reasons why object protection work has not been a priority. But it is striking that the Prime Minister has tried to point out a three-year period from 2010 to 2013 under the red-green government as a foundation rather than pointing to the five years she herself has our commander. Over the five years she herself has been the boss, the Prime Minister has entrusted the government councils and departments with prioritising progress and promises. It's got bad results. One example of this was that former Minister of Justice Per-Willy Amundsen in his hearing in 2017 said that he would continue the follow-up to the object protection in the management dialogue with the directorate. A few days later, his employees in the Department of the Police Directorate asked for an assessment of the amount of property protection work that could be pushed out in time or reduced to a minimum. – Then the talk of better security is not just talk, but empty talk. The same five years since the government of Solberg took over the country, both the police and the defence have been through major reforms – reforms that have led to a greater distance from those to be safeguarded. Reform work has taken time and resources, resources that have gone beyond the operational potential of our security seats. In the defense, a set of things has been started to map which types of objects are to be hedged. The whole country - securing displayable objects is the name of this project. But even if this work is started, it may not keep water, as the Riksrevision writes in the report: ‘It is uncertain whether the project Whole country – SVO will actually lead to the basic protection of the shielding objects complying with the requirements of the Security Act and the Regulation on Object Safety. The project covers only physical basic security measures and not the response requirement.’ Well, here's where we're at the core -- that's what it takes for us to get the quick response that's needed to make people safe in a crisis situation. Even if you have been mapped and secured, it says little if the defense actually comes out. That's why we in the Center Party have been strongly critical of the degradation of the Homeland Protection. Having a protection of the world that has the opportunity to move out when the crisis is there is is absolutely decisive. The closure of Sjöheimeverterung is another example of the wrong direction of reform. Once the Sjöheimewert is gone, there is less operational at sea to secure the important installations at sea and on the coast when necessary. The government is reforming away from people. What has been a good sign of Norwegian society is that it has our short way to those who fit. The road is now longer. During the open hearing of the Stortinget on the Riksrevisions report, it was made clear that the police are expecting support from the Homeland Protection Agency on about 25 p.m. by several hundred objects. The home security feature does not have sufficient capacity to secure and secure all of the civil and military key objects. During the hearing, the head of Homeland Security said that with today's number of soldiers, they are not dimensioned to secure police objects and military objects at the same time. In addition, when we know that there are several thousand important civil sector installations in need of security, it is discouraging to hear the praise measurements that have come from the government in the debate since the report came. It is with this in mind that several representatives of the Central Party have put forward proposals to stop all cutting processes in the Home Guard, increase the number of Home Guard soldiers to 45,000 and restore the Sjöheimewert. With the serious backlash given by the National Audit Office reports, this is crucial for the response time and security of people. The police have twelve displayable objects. The Prime Minister mentioned four of them when she laid down the foundation stone of the new emergency centre at Taraldrud, and in the revised report from the Riksrevision, it appears that three police operating centres are so-called protective objects. But basic insurance work has taken years, and the Directorate of Police has determined that it will continue to be many years before one is in the process of doing this. Minister of Justice Tor Mikkel Wara said to NTB on 22 October this year that it was only in 2015 that the government was aware of the extent of the object protection work and that one did not take the consequences. However, although they were aware of the extent of the work and that the deadlines were not met, the Stortinget was not informed. Formally, Stortinget has not yet taken any formal notice of this from the government. The same year, in 2015, Stortinget, with the support of the Government Party and the Labour Party, decided to launch the reform with the misleading name of the near-police reform. The number of police districts has been cut from 27 to 12, 126 LEN offices have been shut down, and within the police there is confidence that the reform will lead to a more visible police force and contribute to a more effective fight against crime. In the years after 2015, there has been more internal attention in the police to the reform than there has been to focus on the operational security of key police objects. From the Ministry of Justice there has been little help to get. The safeguards put in place have been implemented over the police’s own operating budget and not over an own investment budget. First in the revised national budget in 2018 there was a promise of 20 million. kr to the object hedge work. It may not come from the government's conscious efforts in this area, but the crushing criticism that the Riksrevision brought with it. The 'Remote Policy Reform' from the government has, as mentioned, taken a lot of time and resources. This comes at the top of the fact that the laws of the government have not been in line with the promises. The government budget for next year, as the government party and the Christian People's Party have agreed, gives no thought. We stand far from the goal of two policemen per thousand inhabitants here to land, and even longer it will include the budget agreements that are now on the table. When we see how this government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Erna Solberg, has built up the local labour offices and otherwise built up public administration in the districts and increased the number of government jobs in the Oslo area, we have less to deal with local and decentralised installations, have more response time and less local knowledge. In the Committee configuration, the Centre Party has a comment on this. It's all about us. It takes note of us, but the struggle to build up police and defence, and not down, we will continue – not because it is popular in these times of centralisation, but because it is absolutely necessary for us to continue to use the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e476	The political attack on 22 July 2011 was a serious stirrer in how bad the Norwegian Constitution was the security of terrorism and preparedness. A collusion underlined the importance of deadlines and requirements under the Security Act, with regulations and instructions, through the treatment of the government’s outsourcing and the special committee of the Storting. Everything should be in place by the end of 2014. The government would report on progress and costs on an ongoing basis. One time after the last deadlines had passed, on 1 January 2015, and the security work should have been in progress, the National Audit Office began to examine the status of the defence and police work with the objects and functions for which they are responsible, both the basic security of their own building and functions and their responsibilities and ability to act with security forces if other critical functions in society needed it. So we're talking here about securing far beyond the building of the property to the police and the defense, as opposed to what the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice claimed just before the summer. We talk about the nation's most critical functions: politics, management, police, food, communication, water, defence, health and well-being – to name a few. The first report from the Riksrevision in the autumn of 2016 came down as a lightning strike in political Norway. When Stortinget dealt with saka in the spring of 2017, there was strong criticism. Neither police nor defence had fulfilled the legal requirement. Work on basic safety was still largely ongoing at the stage of analysis and planning and far from being targeted. This was in stark contrast to what was the criticism from the right-hand side after July 22, where it was claimed that security would be far better under a right-hand government. André Oktay Dahl, judge of the Right at that time, even in the VG just before the 2013 elections, claimed that Norway would have been a safer country if Erna Solberg had our prime minister in front of the dark summer day of July 22, 2011. Security was also one of the main issues for the party in the election. In the same interview Solberg would not comment on the statements of Octay Dahl directly, but said laconically: ‘I don’t need a discussion about the Prime Minister’s leadership or anything like that. However, management is an important part of the conclusion of the Gørv report.» The follow-up report from the Riksrevision came in summer 2018. To the surprise of most, he showed that little had happened since the first report, even after sharp criticism from the Stortinget. We also got a much more detailed insight into what actually happened to the government. In the police, a lack of track record of time fixing when a person would be in line with the Security Act – loosely mapped to within 10 years, at the earliest, depending on funding. In the defense, it was dictated that not until 2025 would be a goal. In the defense, a wider view only had 25 pst. of its protective functions. In the case of securing strengths and temporary measures while waiting for permanent protection, there was much confusion, lack of transparency, unclear roles and poor capacity in relation to securing requirements. The analysis showed, however, that there was a great deal of lack of priority and funding on the part of the government. That the government has been hand-on is perhaps the last thing we can draw from the two reports of the National Audit Office. Rather, there is a lack of action, leadership and implementation that characterises the two highly critical reports, the latter concluding on the Riksrevision's very strict approach. ‘Very serious’ in four of the main conclusions of the report is perhaps the Riksrevision’s strictest sentence on a sitting government ever. And according to the National Audit Office, the notion of ‘very serious’ is only used for ‘conditions in which the consequences for society or the citizens concerned are very serious, such as the risk of life or health’. The National Audit Office's report, the hearings and replies from the government show that the government has not prioritised giving money to terrorist security in the police and the defence, despite the clear emphasis of the Stortinget after July 22 that it was important that a target was reached by 2015. The cause is no less serious because Stortinget and the Norwegian people have lived in uncertainty about what has happened. The National Audit Office's report and its own investigations clearly show that the Stortinget and the public have been misinformed over a longer period of time about what is the actual state. The studies show that for the government, none of the reports were any surprises, as they claimed in the March 2017 control hearing. They had been continuously briefed through supervisory reports, reporting and budgetary dialogues with both police and defence. For the Stortinget and the rest of the Norwegian public, it was not to be expected that one had not arrived more than seven years after the events in 2011. Unfortunately, we can state the following: The government has misinformed the state at several times, without any errors being corrected in an comprehensible way for Stortingen before the Riksrevision started digging into it. We can state that the Ministry of Justice and Defence misinformed the Stortinget in the 2016 budget proposal to build in the justice sector was secure in line with the law. That was wrong. Only two out of 12 buildings in the police were then secured in line with the regulations. The net was also not secure. The police directorate quickly contacted the Ministry of Justice and Defence and informed them that this was wrong. The information never arrived at Stortinget. Six months after the Police Directorate informed the Ministry of Justice and Defence of this error, the Minister of Justice Anundsen repeated the error in Stortinget in the spring of 2016 in response to Hårek Elvenes. The Storting had to get the Riksrevision's first report to get the right information: that the security of construction in the police and the defense was so bad, and that the instructions, i.e. the use of securing forces to secure power, water, etc., were also not met. Furthermore, we can state that the Prime Minister's explanation last year's hearing about how this could happen was wrong. Last year’s hearing, the Prime Minister explained the misreporting to the Stortinget in the budget – and from the Minister of Justice in the spring of 2016 – that it was the Police Directorate who had said that one was in charge of securing within the deadline. This is a documented error. On the other hand, the Police Directorate had clearly communicated that they were not in the target, that they needed more money to get into the goal, and that the Storting had been misinformed. The Ministry of Justice and Defence does not listen to the Police Directorate on this matter and instead chose to continue to misinform the Stortinget. Furthermore, we can state that the government has not prioritised the security work. The Police Directorate asked for money in the budget dialogue in 2013, in 2014, in 2015, in 2016 and in 2017 to come to an end, but did not receive this from the Justice and Security Department because a priority was given to other matters over it. This admits the department itself in the report. The basic protection of displayable objects is not a priority in the budget. Other considerations were considered more important. This is black and white in the National Audit Office's report. In the Ministry of Defence, one has also had the lead to the effect that, before the deadline, it would not require exceptional budgetary appropriations. It is difficult to believe that there have been no consequences for progress that the government has not allowed the necessary funds for the defense. The Minister of Defence himself now says that this requires extraordinary promises. The government claims that the error information from Anundsen and the 2016 budget was corrected afterwards. It's also wrong. In the 2017 budget, where the Prime Minister claimed to correct the error information from the 2016 budget, it is very difficult to read the text and understand that previous government information has been wrong. This has not been clear and conscientiously cleared up by the government. Several respondents received the report — in the open, written and media replies — are alarming. The Minister of Defence writes that they only found out during 2016 that a major investment tool was needed to secure the defence's protective object. How could it take five years to figure that out? Former Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen said several things in the last year's hearing that were directly wrong, without it being corrected by sitting Justice Minister or the Prime Minister. Why does the government not see that there is a lack of information obligation, that the Storting should always sit on the most accurate information possible? In the evening post 3 October 2018 the Prime Minister was asked for more money in the past could get the government faster in terms of terror security and preparedness. The answer was: ‘I don’t think we could spend more money and get more sense of things. The only thing that could have hit us faster was that we had used the 2010–2013 period in a better way." It's very special, when we know that both the police and the defense have reported that working with regulations and instructions will require considerable investment, and have asked for money for this occasionally, for a long time, without getting it. But the special thing about the answer to Solberg is that she points to the previous government. They're the ones who are responsible for this taking time. And that's pretty much the standard answer every time you don't want to take responsibility. It has been dark and sad to read how little government has prioritised this work. It becomes even more gloomy when you see how far the government is willing to go to misinform, make up and want both the Storing and the people when they're going to explain their omissions. Of course, we can't be in a position to ensure that the highest priority of the top elected body is ignored and sub-prioritized by the government. And of course, we can't have the government leading the Storing and the people behind the light by systematically misinforming, keeping back information and making up the truth, and with the case of concrete lies in communication with the Storing. As a result, the Prime Minister regrets that the work is not in progress, that she regrets that one has not given priority to this work, and that she regrets that incorrect information has been provided. If the Prime Minister doesn't, she can't trust the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e518	The rapporteur has had a thorough and thorough examination of the matter in the Committee. I'm not going to repeat it, but I'm going to stress some of the things that I think are absolutely central to the assessment that Stortinget is going to do today. Let me start with some very central points. The reason for the gravity of this case lies in our shared experience of the terrorist incident on 22 July 2011. After that event, a very critical report was presented, pointing to serious shortcomings in the field of object protection, basic security and not least the lack of police and defence cooperation. Firstly, object protection is not a detail in the work of security and preparedness. The concept of object protection can be heard as a somewhat diffuse and abstract concept. In many situations, the term ‘terrorism protection’ can be a well-intentioned expression and much more understandable to people than object protection — especially in the light of 22 July 2011. Object protection or terror protection is not a small part of the security work – on the contrary. It's a very central part. Securing features and critical infrastructure is a very important and necessary part of our common security. Secondly, after 22 July 2011, society and the Stortinget have had clear expectations and demands on how to better secure ourselves against terrorism. The Gjørv Commission documented a failure in Norwegian preparedness that was a serious trigger for many. We were vulnerable, and action had to be taken in both the short and long term. The size of the population took important decisions on important actions that needed to be taken. Securing objects would be better. That was an important point – of course not the only crucial point, but it was and is an important point. Now we see that the work has gone too late, and even after report number two from the National Audit Office, we have to note today that we are far behind the deadlines set by the Stortinget in its time. Thirdly, when the government of Solberg took over power, there were clear promises of enhanced efforts on security and preparedness. Yes, a lot of good work has been done, especially after 2015. But I feel that even the Prime Minister now admits that the work has not been focused enough, or has gone fast enough. There hasn't been enough pressure. The work on object protection has not been a high enough priority, in our opinion. The documentation is clear: serious deficiencies have been identified. It is highly critical and very serious. For the Christian People's Party, these three points are at the heart of the debate. This is what is at the heart of the matter. In such an important matter and in so-called key areas of security and preparedness, this work has gone too late, despite the government's own promises and the demands of the Storting. It is not only highly critical, but very serious and very, very disappointing. Then we all know that it's a complex task we're facing, and that the government is responsible for handling it. Safety and preparedness work is complex. We should all admit that we don't solve these problems overnight, and we'll never get to the finish line either. Work will be dynamic and measures will change continuously as the threat picture changes. However, it is such that any protection of critical features must be assessed by virtue of the Safety Act and its regulations. Basic protection and object protection are central to this work, which should have progressed better than what we experience today. This applies both to the basic protection of protective features and to the protection and protection of objects by the use of security forces from the police and the Defence, at the Home Office. The audit covers the financial years 2016 and 2017. The size has given high priority to the work on object protection, and the Riksrevision sees it as very serious that the improvement work is not ensured well enough progress. The Christian People's Party agrees with this conclusion. We have now had hearings, spent a long time, gone through a lot of documents. The National Auditorate has done a thorough job, and so has the Committee. The matter is very serious, and the criticism is sharp. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a solid basis for this criticism, unfortunately. The Committee held one open and one closed hearing and conducted a comprehensive correspondence with the Prime Minister and the departments concerned. The reason why the committee has done such a thorough job is precisely the fact that object protection cannot be seen as a detail or as a marginal part of the safety work – far from it. Protective objects are property that must be protected for the security of the state or allies or other vital national security interests. It's both about permanent basic security of buildings, installations and other things that could be terrorized, and about having good plans for extra effort when something happens and crises occur. The National Audit Office’s investigation shows that there is still a lot to be done before the basic protection of the protection features of the police and defence can be considered to be in accordance with the requirements of the Security Act and the Storting. Non-priority by the police and incomplete overview of the status of the basic protection of the shielding objects in the Defence are among the conclusions of the National Audit Offices. The National Audit Office further states that the departments have improved the follow-up to the use of securing forces, but that they are still far behind what the Stortinge provided. The National Audit Office further indicates that the two departments do not have a common understanding of the object protection directive and that there are weaknesses in the defence process with the designation of civil key objects. There are also weaknesses in the operational capability of Home Security and the lack of clarification and analysis of the capacity of police and Home Security to secure and protect objects using security forces. The Court of Auditors' judgment is harsh. Important features are not guaranteed by law and regulation, and failure can pose a risk to life and health. Any government must take such a judgment from the Riksrevision in the highest seriousness – yes, in the highest seriousness! As politicians, it is our primary responsibility to provide security and security for the citizens. Then securing critical objects in society is absolutely central. When faults and deficiencies are identified, the authorities must take responsibility. Some of the lessons after July 22 are precisely that there must never be any doubt about who is responsible. In this case, it is the government with the Prime Minister in charge. That's why it was important for the Christian People's Party to summon the Prime Minister to the hearing in Stortinget. That is why I am also pleased that the Prime Minister is here today. It gives an important signal. It underlines the seriousness and complexity of the matter, and it shows that the government is taking the matter seriously. For it is the overall responsibility of the College of Government to ensure that the emergency situation is as secure as possible, within an acceptable economic framework. This responsibility does not go away even if, for practical reasons, sectoral responsibility has been added to one or more expert councils. The government has recognised the findings of the Riksrevision and is behind the report. Professional councils and the Prime Minister have confirmed the seriousness of the report, although attempts have been made to nuance the picture. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the level of seriousness has been maintained after the committee's thorough investigations. The findings are very serious. The content and findings of the national audit are confirmed in documents and hearings. The same applies to the serious consequences which may result from the deficiencies identified in the event of a possible crisis situation. The government has recognised that the reporting to Stortinget could have been clearer. Former Minister of Defence Eriksen Soreide stated during the open hearing that the Ministry of Defence could have a more comprehensive and comprehensive orientation for the Stortinget, in addition to the ongoing orientation. The current Minister of Defence, Bakke-Jensen, admitted in the same hearing that they had earned more complete reporting to the Stortinget. The Prime Minister stressed that the government should communicate more clearly and comprehensively, and has taken self-criticism on behalf of the government. The Prime Minister showed during the hearing that she is taking the matter seriously. She recognized that it was a complex work, and she shared far on the way to the reality description given by the Riksrevision. This is a good starting point for further work. At the same time, in the view of the Christian People's Party, there is a clear basis for claiming that the government during the 2017 hearing, when the previous report was discussed, gave a makeup picture of today's situation. The government is now promising a concrete plan for further follow-up, with deadlines and funding. On direct questions from the undersigned during the hearings, it was confirmed that the plan was to be anchored in Stortinget – a plan that will apply to both the police and defence sectors. The criticism of the government’s lack of follow-up by the National Audit Office is characterised as ‘very serious’, which is the highest level of seriousness in the Riksaudition criticisms and is used in situations where the consequences for society or the citizens concerned are very serious, for example: the risk to life or health. This underlines the great seriousness of the matter. In particular, the Christian People's Party will highlight the following elements as the basis for its conclusion: the object protection of the Defence and Police remains not in line with the Security Regulation and the Object Protection Instructions; that the Ministry of Justice and Defence has not prioritised securing its own objects that the Ministry of Defence has still not implemented the necessary securing of its own features that the government has not informed the Storting about deferrals; the government has withheld information on expected costs; that at last year's hearing a makeup picture of the actual situation was drawn the public government is trying to de-dramatise the situation by limiting what the Riksaudition report actually describes that there are still weaknesses in the defence process of designating civil key objects When, in 2016, the Stortinget examined Document 1 for 2016-2017, the National Audit Office's report on the annual audit and control for the financial year 2015, the Christian People's Party chose to go for a critical decision on the strength "strongly critical" as a result of the findings revealed. The 2016 report referred to significant weaknesses in the object security of the Directorate of Police and Defence. In the treatment of Inner. 483 S for 2016–2017, Stortinget decided to ask the National Audit Board to follow up the case and come back to Stortinget with a status report on object protection as of 29 May 2017, and that is this report we are now examining. The aim of the study was to provide the Stortinget with information on developments in the financial years 2016 and 2017, including on the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence improved the object protection as foreseen by the Stortinget. It is quite clear that the follow-up has not been in line with Storting’s assumptions and that insufficient action has been taken in the period from the first report to the present. The government has recognised that the reporting to Stortinget could have been clearer. Former Minister of Defence Eriksen Soreide stated during the open hearing that there could have been a more coherent and comprehensive orientation for the Stortinget, in addition to the ongoing orientation. State Council Bakke-Jensen admitted in the hearing that it had earned to report to the Storting more fully. The Prime Minister stressed that the government should communicate more clearly and comprehensively, and has taken self-criticism on behalf of the government. We recorded during the hearing that the Prime Minister was well aware of the situation. It is an expectation from the Christian People's Party today that the Prime Minister will repeat and underline this recognition. We believe it is necessary to tighten up the criticism in relation to what the Christian People's Party proposed at the previous reading. Follow-up failures have also been identified following the adoption by the Stortinget of its decisions based on the Riksrevision report in 2016. Therefore, in the view of the Christian People's Party, it is necessary to use a stronger instrument. We therefore invite the Stortinget today to make a decision that is the strongest before any mistrust. We do that because the thing is, as we've been saying all along, more serious than last time. We must now demand and expect that society's security and security be given far higher power and priority in the future. We now see that important work is going on. In the 2019 budget, we see priorities in the field of justice that will contribute to speeding up the pace. With a prime minister who acknowledges the facts, I still trust that the work will be given a far higher priority in the time that comes than it has had in the time that lies behind us. I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e602	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e607	In the issue of object protection follow-up, Red has doubted to support what is in practice a mistrust proposal against the government. The National Audit Office has revealed that the government has reduced its priority of preparedness and has broken down by important decision-making decisions. It has also been found that the government has misinformed the Storting about the many and large holes in the follow-up to decisions, laws and instructions on object protection. The attitude of the Supervisory Committee to be debated and voted on today is based on the third round of the Riksrevision with criticism in this matter. This means that after two reports in which the Riksrevision points out serious deficiencies in the follow-up to object protection, and two rounds of consideration of the Riksrevision criticism in the Stortinget, the government had not taken the necessary steps to meet the requirements. The National Audit Office calls the findings ‘very serious’. It is the highest severity of criticism in the National Audit Office’s reports. According to the National Audit Office, there are so many shortcomings that it can have serious societal consequences, with a risk to life and health. The fact that the government has also misinformed Storting about the matter makes it even worse. For example, in the 2016 budget of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, which was presented in October 2015, it is named. att ‘all activities in the justice sector have reported that protective features are secured under the regulation on object safety’. The current Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen repeated the same claim in his reply to a written question from Stortinget in April 2016. Then the government blamed much of this misinformation on the Police Directorate. And it is true that POD provided a minor error information in 2014, but it only applied to securing forces, not basic protection and not to object protection as a whole. And: POD itself notified the government of this error, without the government giving the Storting clear information about this error. In addition, the government received information from several teams over a long time that it was far behind in object protection during that period. For example, the classified report of the National Audit Office shows: the police were in vain asking for more money to secure sheltered construction and infrastructure in 2013, in 2014 and 2015. Nor has the government fulfilled its obligation to provide information to Stortinget in a satisfactory manner in terms of object protection in the Defence. The Riksrevisions report Document 3:11 states, inter alia: the following: ‘The Ministry of Defence’s plan to establish basic safeguards for the shielding objects by 2025 is not in line with Storting’s decisions and assumptions.’ One thing is that the Ministry of Defence did not come to an end by 2015, as intended, but the most incomprehensible thing here is that the department starts operating with the 2025 year, ten years later than the deadline that was foreseen, without informing the Storting about it. During the hearing on object security on 27 August this year, Foreign Minister Eriksen Soreide was asked several times about when, as Minister of Defence from 2013 to 2017, she was informed that the Ministry of Defence first saw separately to comply with the basic security requirements in the Defence in 2025. Red also asked written questions as to why Eriksen Soreide did not inform Stortinget about this huge aftermath. In the reply we received, Minister of Defense Bakke-Jensen confirmed that the government could have been clearer to the Stortinget. We have not yet received a satisfactory answer from Eriksen Soreide as to why in 2015, when the deadline expired, she did not inform the Stortinget that the government was still years away from following what was the Stortinge's assumption. Furthermore, misinformation and the retention of important information in the subject matter of object protection are intertwined in a wide range of cases of what we consider to be a breach of the government's obligation to provide information to the Storing on security policy issues. We see similarly in the case of the satellite project, where the government asked the Stortinget for money for satellite broadband, without informing the Stortinget that the money would go to a project that also meant connecting the US offensive nuclear war systems in the northern areas to Norwegian civil satellites, or that we have seen with the US-led war adventure in Syria, where the government still refuses to disclose which armed militia groups one has used Norwegian defence resources to train and support in the war in Syria. In sum, the breach of Storting's assumptions, along with incorrect information and retention of information in the object protection case, is enough for us to support the proposal that the Storting regrets the government's action in the matter, and requires that something like that not happen again. At the same time, we support the proposal, with some reservations. The lack of object protection is not the sole responsibility of the current government. The Stoltenberg government made some unrealistic assumptions that the new object protection requirements would not cost anything. Neither did the red-greens make a good enough effort in the field during their reign. Red will also not uncritically benefit from the thinking behind the extensive and costly object protection, because we fear that maximum protection of hard targets can be done in a way that, in worst cases, could go beyond securing soft targets, i.e. civilian targets. With soft or civil targets, we think in particular of digital infrastructure, connecting points for physical infrastructure such as water, electricity, sewerage and passenger and goods transport. This is probably today the most likely target of unwanted actions intended to affect our country and is not necessarily adequately protected by today’s preparedness concept. In 2016, Chief of Defense Haakon Bruun-Hanssen came up with an opinion that we do not miss when we talk about the government's down-priority of object protection. Bruun-Hanssen then said that participation in war operations abroad has gone at the expense of domestic preparedness. We believe that this reflects an unacceptable prioritisation of our resources. In the last 20 years, Norwegian politicians from changing governments have implemented a drastic conversion of Norwegian politics, from peace nation to war nation, through participation in a number of foreign war operations, more and more of them under the command of the United States and NATO. The fact that Red is against it is not unknown, but when even the head of defense says that these war operations are at the expense of domestic preparedness, the alarm bells should ring for all those who care about a safe Norway. Unfortunately, this is a lesson that this government seems to have difficulty learning. Only a few months after the deadline for complying with the defence object protection requirements expired in 2015, the then Secretary of Defense – Eriksen Soreide – replied yes to sending Norwegian soldiers out on a mildly complicated US-led military mission in the unbridled Syria. The same thing happened earlier this year when the government, after being informed by the National Audit Office about another forthcoming report on the lack of prioritisation of preparedness, agreed to send Norwegian forces to Sahel in Africa. The government disposes of the population's tax money and the entire defence resources of Norway. These are the Community's resources, not Erna Solberg's own money, and they should be used to defend Norway and the Norwegian population, not in the US wars in the Middle East, Africa and Asia – wars that also create more problems than they solve. Red's demands are therefore simple: it is time for the government to put protection of Norway and the Norwegian population first.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e649	I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough work on an attitude based on the Riksrevision report. There have been two hearings in the case, one open and one closed, which have helped to clarify the matter. In the hearings I have also stated that I am serious about the weaknesses that the Riksrevision has pointed out regarding the work on object protection. The Riksrevision's findings have been, and are, important to the ongoing object protection work. At the same time, I recall that the present report states that improvements have been made since 2015. The National Audit Service concluded in its first report that none of the police protection features were fundamentally secured by law and regulation. According to the report, which is the basis for today's debate, there are ten out of twelve objects that do not have a full basic assurance. However, even if work remains, it is important to point out that compensatory measures have been established for all objects. To provide an example that is not graduated, redundant solutions have been established for all police operating centres, three of which are protective. That is, if one operating centre is outsourced, the function will be performed by another operating centre. The Directorate of Police has now established a comprehensive plan of permanent and temporary object protection measures and the closure of the deviations detected by the National Audit Office. The plan, which goes over five years, also includes securing operational centres that are not currently classified as protective objects and are cost-effectively estimated by the Directorate of Police to approximately 300 million. kr. In the schedule, current displayable objects are given priority. As the Riksaudition writes: Of the twelve objects, two are already secured under the requirements of the Security Act. It is added that another four objects will be fully secured next year, and the remaining six objects will be secured the following year. This means that all current shielding features will be within the provisions of the new Security Act, as the Directorate of Police considers it, during 2020. This government has given priority both in 2017 and 2018 to compensatory measures for police shielding objects, as well as to financing the establishment of a new national emergency centre and data centres. In next year's government budget, the government has proposed a solid funding of property protection by granting 171 million. SEK, of which 142 million. kr is linked to the Police Directorate's plan and SEK 29 million. for redundancy measures. It also proposes 17.5 million. SEK to PST – a total of 188,5 million. kr to object protection work. This is in addition to appropriations related to data centres, of 148.2 million. NOK 865,3 million and a new police emergency centre. kr. The National Audit Office writes in its report that compliance with the instructions on the use of securing forces has improved. Police have established criteria for the designation of objects, developed plans for securing the designated objects and pre-designated objects where the Defence shall assist the police. Regular exercises are also carried out. The police directorate regularly follows up the enforcement of the instructions to the police districts, and in my opinion a thorough and good job has been done in the police in this area. In the light of the report of the National Audit Office on the lack of clarification and analysis of police capacity to secure and protect property through the use of security forces, including the requirements and level of ambition for police security work, the Directorate of Police is entrusted with the task of carrying out a work that further clarifies, analyses and determines the level of ambition of police object security work using its own security forces. Work shall also include analysis of the need for strength in different scenarios on the crisis scale. The time limit for the implementation of the work is set by the Directorate of Police by February 2019. I have noted the Riksrevision's assessments related to the lack of a common understanding of the object protection directive. I think it is important to clarify what the police director and the head of defence also pointed out in an open hearing, namely that there is no disagreement on how to interpret today's instructions. It is now more than six years since the instructions were laid down, and then it is quite natural to consider any changes. That is why, in consultation with the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Ministry of Defence has set up a working group which is well under way to review the current instructions. The group will discuss, recommend and justify any changes to the instructions. Since 2013, this government has increased the appropriation by over 7 billion. kr to various preparedness measures in the justice sector, and the government has provided a history of police recruitment. In addition, bets are well over 1 billion. kr in 2019. A number of measures have been taken to strengthen police preparedness, including: a significant strengthening of the Police Security Service, strengthening the preparedness team, ordering three new police helicopters, the possibility of point-arming by vulnerable objects, demands for police response time, the establishment of a new annual national terrorist exercise and the establishment of a national emergency centre. I would like to stress that the government has taken seriously the assessments and recommendations of the previous report of the Riksaudition. I believe all the work we have done since 2015 shows that. We are also taking seriously the new recommendations for the Riksrevision. The instructions will be implemented during 2019 and the Police Directorate now has an obligatory plan that will ensure that all current protective features will be within the provisions of the new Security Act during 2020. Finally, I would like to remind you that the work on standby and object protection is a continuous work and something we will never be able to say is finally done. Protecting citizens is one of the most important tasks of a country, which this government has taken seriously and will continue to pay great attention to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e673	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e678	As far as the Justice Department is concerned, there is a place where people come and go, and the current Minister of Justice has not been Minister of Justice for the period covered by the National Audit Office's report. However, the current Minister of Justice has taken note, for on the same day as the report was presented, the Minister of Justice in News of the Day was eighteen and claimed that the Riksrevision's report was only about securing the police's own property, and referred to it as concrete and barbed wire. Will the Council of State now regret that he has thus misinformed the population, as he did at the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e683	When you're in a debate, it's important to be able to keep the different concepts apart. It's important both in the Biggest, in the New Year's Eve, and elsewhere in society. It's very important to know if we're talking about the safety instructions or the regulations. As far as the regulation is concerned, it's about the police's own objects. As far as the instructions are concerned, the Riksrevision points out a significant improvement, and here I can show that we have a plan that allows us to cover it by February 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e688	What I referred to was the Council of State's report on the Riksrevision. But the Council of State now mentioned the instructions, and that's good. And he admitted that the instructions are not satisfied with what the police are about to do with security forces. But then I wonder if the Council of State is as precise about this itself, because as late as yesterday, in the Storting debate here, the Council of State raised the question of earring – that is what the Committee has said, that there must be own funds for object protection in the Ministry of Justice and in the police sector. Yesterday the Council of State said that there was too much ringing, and again the Council of State mentioned object protection as concrete. How in the world are we going to be able to take the seeming concessions from the Council of State seriously when, as late as yesterday, he mentions this important matter only as concrete?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e695	Yesterday we did not talk about the National Audit Office's report, yesterday we talked about the use of funds within the police. To be honest, I have to admit that we have spent a lot of money on concrete in the last few years in the police department. But it is not that there have been no earrings, as I saw someone talking about. The emergency centre's money is earmarked, including some concrete. Some of the other things we've given money to are also earrings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e700	When we talk about earring in general in the police, we're really talking about jobs out in the individual county offices and how much the police chief should be allowed to dispose of his own crew.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e703	The Committee notes that, in the case of object protection, no specific funds have been allocated to it so far. And it is quite striking – because it was concrete related to object protection that was mentioned by the Minister of Justice yesterday – that he apparently, after such a long time in the chair, still does not take the topic seriously. That is my question, because the Minister of Justice is not only Minister of Justice, he is also Minister of Defence and is responsible for the fact that other departments and state agencies also follow up their responsibility for basic protection of property: how can the Minister of Defence think that other parts of the State administration should assume their responsibilities when the Minister of Justice does not follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e710	I would like to make it very clear that I take the responsibility we have. So we have a plan -- almost to say it with Egon Olsen: it's an hour and it's organized. We know when we're going to be in goal according to what the Riksrevision has pointed out, and we've made use of the means to get to the goal. This is the case in the rest of Norway that there are always object owners responsible for securing their objects. Under the new Security Act adopted and implemented, the Ministry of Justice will be given increased responsibility for taking action against other departments. But initially, there are objects that are responsible for securing their objects.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e717	Last summer, the Directorate of Police sent a list of actions they wanted to be funded on the 2018 budget to the Ministry of Justice. The size was not aware that it had been sent, but it was done – a concrete list of measures that would make one step further in securing the police's work on object protection. This is a situation that extends at the moment before the Council of State sits down. Earlier he said that no, this was before my time, so I can't answer that. But that is the constitutional responsibility of this Council of States. These are relationships that have happened before, and that concerns the issue of government as a whole has prioritised this work. Will the Council of State now complain to Stortinget that a non-priority object protection in the 2018 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e724	It is difficult for me to explain what assessments were made in the department before my time. But let's say it like this: it's a natural part of any governance dialogue to discuss the proposals that come from the underlying agencies. I don't think it's an eye-catching thing. I think that is a natural part of any Minister of Justice. The proposals that come will be considered, critical questions will be asked to them, and priorities will be set accordingly. That's my general statement. I asked for a plan from the Police Directorate to cover the deviations in object security – this year, after I became Minister of Justice – and got that plan. That's the plan described in the State budget, which will make us target the shielding objects in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e731	It seems that the art of being the Council of State for this Council of States is to be as much as possible a soap piece in answer to questions from Stortinget. But this is actually what this Council of State has been talking about when there was a big press release in the evening post just before the budget was presented this year. When the Council of State said that now we had finally got a plan, this Minister of Justice himself had asked for such a plan to finance actions from the Directorate of Police. So for the first time, one of them had got it, and now it's time to start financing. But we know – all of us who have worked on this matter – that that plan has come from the Police Directorate in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and thus before the budget we are in now. I ask again: Will the Council of State complain to Stortinget that one did not prioritize it for this year, and that it was wrong what he said in the evening post?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e739	The President would point out that the characterisation of a Council of States as a ‘soap’ is not in good parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e744	The representative gives the impression that the plan presented this summer is the only plan on object protection. I have to remind you that the entire emergency centre is object protection to a very, very large extent – an object protection project that SV wanted to postpone, which would result in us not being in target in 2020. Projects with data halls are also object protection, and a number of other measures. What we're talking about here was some of the remaining objects of the Police Directorate. They we now have a plan to make sure that we're going to have covered them in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e749	I don't seem to get any answers from today either. Governments call Taraldrud, that everything will be so much better when it is clear. But Taraldrud is a co-location matter. The requirements of the safety laws with regulations and instructions are something that you should always follow, whether you have co-located things or they exist all around you. What the National Audit Office's report shows is that the security of the functions to enter this centre is currently not in accordance with the law, i.e. we have to wait several years before these functions are secured. Does the Council of State also see that the point of Taraldrud is quite weak, all the time the functions of defence, police and also other parts of society are always going to be consistent with the Security Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e756	Let me start with the end. Yes, it should be under the Security Act. That is my general position. The Taraldrud Emergency Response Centre will ensure that the latest features will be secured in 2020. It's hard to build Taraldrud faster, but it's easy to postpone the emergency centre if you want it, for example. by promoting a proposal by the Storting to postpone it, as the Workers' Party and SV voted in favour. Then we wouldn't be in the target in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e763	It has been interesting to sit and follow the debate and hear Ulf Leirstein, who is a party trap for Tor Mikkel Wara. He said in his post that you have a “good conscience for everything you have delivered”. It's a quote from Ulf Leirstein. When you read the National Audit Office's report on what has been done in the Ministry of Justice's area, it says that you see "very serious" about what has happened in terms of basic insurance and how the Department has followed up the decisions taken by the Stortinget. Does the Minister of Justice agree that there is a 'good conscience for everything that has been delivered', as Mrs Leirstein, the spokesperson of the Progressive Party, said in the debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e768	This government has spent over 7 billion. kr for emergency measures during their period. Then I also look seriously at the criticism from the Riksrevision – let it be clear. We're not in the target, and we're not where we should be. So I want to say that if we look at that budget that I can first talk about, that I'm presenting here, it's over 865 million. kr to the emergency centre, it is 188 million. SEK for police security projects, in addition to SEK 148 million. kr for data halls and 25 mills. for cybersecurity. This is the budget proposal for 2019, and I am very proud of that. I think it shows that we take object protection seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e775	It has become an exercise for this government to be full of self-confidence and to lift up different budget lines. But many of us who are elected people travel a lot around Norway, we meet the police locally, and we discuss with them: how is reality? The police's own trade union, the Joint Police Association, has described that there were crisis-like conditions in eleven out of twelve police districts this summer. So the party numbers here in the hall and the reality description of those who wear the uniform are very different, and the parties of the Progress Party figures here in the hall and the reality descriptions in the National Audit Office's report are also very, very different. When Minister of Justice Tor Mikkel Wara now hears the spokesman from the Christian People's Party saying that it is'very serious' and'strongly critical' what it says about how the government has followed up the Riksaudien report of 2017, does the Minister of Justice then agree with the Christian People's Party's criticism that the way the government has followed up the justice sector in the last two years is'very serious' and'very critical'?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e780	I take the Riksrevision's criticism seriously, and I can also sketch out what I think is obvious – in retrospect – we could have done better. I agree with what the Prime Minister said at the hearing. We could inform Stortinget in the past, clearer and more comprehensive. So yes, there were absolute possibilities for us to be better at those points.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e785	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e790	First, I would like to thank the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee for its extensive work on this position. This case extends, as I said earlier and as you know, back to 2015, when the Riksrevision made the first of its two inquiries. The majority has received two detailed reports from the Riksrevision. The matter has been debated in this Chamber earlier, and in the autumn the Committee has also received answers to 44 written questions that it has asked the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and Defence and the Minister of Defence. The Ministry has informed about the object protection work in its budget proposals to the Stortinget. We have recognised that we could inform more often, better and more fully about the work of strengthening object protection. The store should be given more clear information at an earlier time. This is a complex area involving several departments, several agencies and several institutions. It involves classified information and up-to-date information. Looking back, we had made a lot of money to inform better. As a contribution to this information work, I would like to go through the three most important aspects of the Ministry of Defence. I will first repeat some of the main points from the hearing in the autumn. I take the weaknesses the Riksrevision has found, in the greatest seriousness. I would like to stress that although there have been clear improvements since the first survey in 2015, there is still a lot of work to be done before the hedge is at a satisfactory level in all areas. I base the Riksrevision's findings and recommendations on further work. The Ministry of Defence commissioned the Defence and Defence Building to follow up on the National Audit Office's report shortly after it was presented in June. The government has already spent large sums on object protection, and substantial budgetary resources have been used in the coming years. The first of the three areas is the basic preventive protection of the defence of its own protective features. The National Auditor sees it as positive that we started a comprehensive investment project in 2016 to put the basic insurance system in place. At the same time, they point out that completion of this work will take a long time. We have a committed and funded plan to put the basic insurance in place. We have also followed up the Riksrevision's finding that there was a complete lack of an overview of the state of the defence objects. The defence was given such an overview before the open hearing in August. In addition, Defence Building works with an assessment of the specific technical security measures needed on the individual object. The establishment of basic insurance has proved to be far more complex, time- and cost-intensive than that envisaged by the government of Stoltenberg in 2010. When this government took over in 2013, there was not enough status overview of the hedge. We have therefore had to spend time getting a complete overview of the remaining security needs and building up the necessary skills across the defence sector to address what has proved to be a very complex area of concern. So the 2025 is not a change in a deadline in the regulation, but it's the year of the last planned payment in an investment program for securing displayable objects. We have been open that the plan did not meet the deadline in the regulation before it was started. The government has opened up financial support for the programme and has therefore set aside EUR 180 million. kr for 2019. That is why we have also announced that, in the context of the revised national budget, we should be able to respond to the practical feasibility of completing the work earlier than 2025. Significant funds are used for object protection in the defence sector. The programme already mentioned has a framework of 450 million. kr. The size has been made known to this sum through the budget proposals for 2018 and 2019. In addition, we have started, or are in the process of implementing, other basic insurance measures with a total cost framework of over 1.6 billion. kr. Only in Ørland, about 600 million are now invested. kr in new basic insurance measures. Then there is not only money here, but also the capacity to project and get regulated companies to implement the projects. Work must also be aligned with other high priority construction projects, such as Ørland and Evenes. It is important for me to make it clear that the defence objects are not unsafe. All objects have a form of basic protection. About half are in military camps, with fences and military guards. An object may have a number of safeguards, but as long as it does not have all the four categories of measures required by the current Safety Act, it is nevertheless assessed as unsatisfactoryly ensured. The new Safety Act makes more functional requirements for the fuse, which facilitates more accurate and cost-effective security measures. So for object protection with security forces: For the defence, this is assistance to police security and military security of key objects in war. The National Audit Office is quite clear that this work has been improved – and not just improved. The National Audit Office mentions several concrete examples of how it has improved, while pointing out that there are still significant challenges. I want to compare with the Riksrevision's findings for 2015. Then was the work of designating the civil key objects of the Defense, upon which the Defense depends in war, to the extent begun. But now all of these are largely designated. There was not enough quality of the information related to this work, but now there are good ICT solutions and up-to-date databases. At that time, there were weaknesses in the exchange of information and cooperation on planning by the police and the defence. It's now improved. At that time, the Home Guard had an object plan for less than half of the objects, as it is now approaching full coverage of the object plan. While weaknesses were identified in police/home security exercises, there is now agreement on at least one annual joint exercise or other competence action in each district. I still recognise the Riksrevision's observation that there is still a lack within this part of the object protection. We are now making improvements in the process of designating civil key objects, and the Defence Quality Assures its analysis of the Home Security capability to secure the objects. The quality assurance confirms so far prior information that the Home Protection system initially has the capacity to secure all the listed objects. The Riksrevision report states that when the Home Office also has to carry out wartime tasks other than object security, there will not be enough capacity to simultaneously secure both all the key objects and the pre-selected objects from the police. The National Audit Office’s assessment is consistent with the information provided during the hearing last year and this year on the capacity of the Home Protection Agency. At the same time, I remind you that there is no requirement for all objects to be secured simultaneously. The protection of the home and other parts of the defence is not dimensioned in order to perform all of their tasks simultaneously. The defence's object protection capacity is not limited to Home Protection, as it has created an impression in this case. The defence may also use other departments, other strengths for this job. During the hearings in the autumn, the Chief of Defence and the Police Director were aware that the object protection directive did not cause any difficulties in cooperation. The adjustment needs identified by the police have been included in the joint review of the currently ongoing instructions. The third main area is the National Audit Office’s observation of weaknesses in the operational capability of the Home Protection Agency. The government has been open that there are weaknesses in it. This has also been clearly demonstrated by the Chief of Defense’s assessment of operational capability, which is presented annually to the Stortinget. Although challenges remain for Home Affairs, I am pleased that Defense is now reporting a significant improvement in this operational capability. This is the result of a conscious effort on plans, materials, personnel and exercises. In the first part of the 2017-2020 planning period, we started a further modernisation of the Heimevernet. In 2017, the Home Guard budget was significantly strengthened with an additional budget of 191 million. to resume a long-term lag in maintenance, spare parts and emergency stocks. This is a continuation of the ambitions of the long-term plan, and the slowdown is now largely in place. The Home Office is now adapting the organisation to an area structure of 37 000 soldiers, in line with the Storting decision. In the revised national budget for 2018, the government proposed to strengthen Heimevertnert by 11 million. kr related to an increase in the area structure. We also proposed an increase of 25 million. kr for the faster acquisition of new clothing and equipment. For watchkeeping of seaside objects, the government would provide a smaller number of commercial small boats and markings and barges. At the same time, the aim is to establish a system for the requisition of civil ships to assist that service. I note that the majority of the Committee has not been willing to listen to the information on the operational capability of Home Affairs and the number of areas ready to respond. Instead, the Riksrevision report is used as a facilitator to establish that the Ministry of Defence misinformed the Stortinget. It's a strange way for me to deal with it that's part of the whole point of a hearing, namely to ensure counter-dictation and better case information. As the head of Homeland Protection said, the operational status of Homeland Protection has been steadily improving in recent years. This applies to the updating of plans, the introduction of materials, the upgrading of skills and the training and training of personnel. In the last five years, home protection has had a generally good status on exercise in relation to requirements. This was last tested during the NATO exercise in the fall, where well-equipped soldiers in the Home Guard trained for the organisation and reception of allied reinforcements. The tasks also included strength protection and protection of both pre-planned objects and objects for which there is no plan. The feedback from the exercise is that this was done in a very satisfactory way, and the Home Protection System was made visible that strength protection and object protection are something they can. For 2019, the government proposes to allocate 61 million. kr to increase the length of the annual exercise for the entire area structure – similar to what we do for HV-16 in Troms and HV-17 in Finnmark. This will also allow a greater share of the area structure to be practised annually. This will contribute to further improving the capability of the Home Protection System for object protection. So that we've given a makeup picture of the situation. I must be allowed to disagree with that. We have never stated that everything is on the care, but have been clear that a lot of work remains before the object protection is satisfactory. The reports from the hearing and the debates provide evidence of this. We have pointed out that there are shades and that there have been clear improvements since the first survey in 2015. We have also informed about the improvement measures taken and planned. It has been natural to mention such measures when there has been a focus on how government will improve object protection. I therefore believe that we have not done any fine-tuning of the situation. But I would like to be clear that we could have given the information work to Stortinget a higher priority at an earlier time. I hope the hearing, the answers we have given the Committee on many written questions, and today's debate helps the matter to be sufficiently informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e843	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e849	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for sharing many of the ambitious plans he currently has, but that is not the issue here today. I hope we can agree that it is the Swedish Audit Office's report for the period 2014-2017 that is the topic today, and no financial debate or other plans for the future. Then I want to say one thing: I can understand that it is annoying that the opposition hangs on in detail and like that, like HV's operational capability and the state council itself took up in terms of ready-prepared shelter areas, where he felt he had to come up with a counterjection. Then I really hope we can clear up a little bit in the room today, because there was a discussion, both in the hearing and afterwards, about how many areas you actually have, and what has been the status of the period during which the Riksrevision has examined. So I have to try again, even if the Council of State thinks it is premature: Were there more or less areas ready to go in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e856	First, I have to start by saying that I do not look at HV's operational capability as any trifle. I have been quite clear that I believe this is serious. We have also been clear in the hearing and in the debates that the way we measure operational capability is different from the Riksrevision method, which says that either you are off or you are on, while the defence manager's method, the head of the Home Office's method, measures operational ability in terms of material, training, practice, planning, how to set up. So I know that there has been a debate – I have also been present in it – on the preparedness areas from 2014 to 2017, and there we have been open about a change in measurement method. So when the HV manager has said that the operational capability is significantly better, we think it's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e865	So what the Minister of Defense says is that a method of measurement has been made that gives a different impression than the Riksrevision can come up with. Is the Council of State standing here saying that the Riksrevision is unable to count and has misinformed the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e870	No, I'm not saying that, but I'm saying that an important part of this debate is that the defense chief measures operational capability in one way, looks much more nuanced and more complete at it. The head of HV also does that. The measurement method The Riksrevision used in the field of ready-to-use areas is to reduce area level and to ask questions. Thus, a zero-one response to a HV area does not automatically describe the operational capability of the Home Protection System, the ability of the Home Protection System to perform object protection and be ready for battle. That's what we've been pointing at. We have been open that the method was changed along the way to become more accurate, in order to become more accurate. Therefore, there is a difference between the figures on the areas of readiness for response from 2014 to 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e877	I'm sensitive to interesting changes, even when it comes from the Minister of Defense, but again I have to ask, because it's a little serious for us in Stortinget. If we deal with documents from the National Audit Office when we make control cases, it's a little serious that we don't sit on the information the Minister of Defense thinks we should sit on, and that the National Audit Office actually gives us the wrong information. Does the Minister of Defence actually think that we have been misinformed by the Riksrevision?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e882	No, the Minister of Defense doesn't think so, but we've been open about measuring it in different ways. We have also been open in communication with the National Audit Office that when the Chief of Defense and the Chief of Defence measure operational capability, they do so not only according to the method used by the National Audit Office in their report, where the National Audit Office lists the number of areas that are ready to respond and uses it as a description of the operational capability of the Home Protection Agency. We think it's important and we're open about having a more nuanced view of it, more comprehensively looking at what Homeland Protection can deliver, what you have of material, it gives you a different picture. That's the method the head of Homeland Security uses when he looks at his area and reports on to the head of defense. That is the method used by the head of defence when reporting on the operational capability of the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e889	The National Auditorate is the Supervisory Body of Storting. State Council Frank Bakke-Jensen first uses the pulpit to undermine what is stated in the Riksrevision report, that there is one version of reality, while he has a slightly different version of reality. Of the line change now, it seems like it's the measurement methods the Riksrevision uses, the Frank Bakke-Jensen that state council disagrees with. But it's a pretty simple question to answer. Has the number of HV response areas increased from the first report to the present day? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e894	The answer to that is yes. So I think it's important to say that we've always pointed out in our communication with the National Audit Office that measuring the operational capability of the Home Protection Agency only in areas of readiness is using a very inaccurate measuring tool. You better measure the operational capability of the Home Protection System when you look at it completely. That is why the head of the Home Office was so clear about the improvements that have been seen in Home Office protection over the years, both in terms of personnel, in terms of material, in terms of who has been trained, and in terms of what is ready for. We have also been clear along the way that, in order to be more accurate when measuring operational capability, the method was, how to report an emergency area, changed along the way. Yes, there has been a discussion in our hearings, but my answer today is that yes, there are more areas of readiness now than it was in 2014. But if we're going to discuss operational capability, we have to include all of the facets in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e899	It seems that the Council of State is more concerned with trying to undermine what is stated in the National Audit Office's report than to address the situation in Defence and Home Protection. The Riksrevision report says that there is a shortage of staff, a lack of critical material, and in some areas there is too little ammunition. Earlier today, the Christian People's Party has said that they want the Storting to decide that it is "very serious" and "strongly critical", what has happened in the field of defence, what has happened in the area of Homeland Protection. Does the Council agree that it is ‘very serious’ and ‘very critical’? Is the Council of State in disagreement with the great majority that the Christian People's Party stands for, that it is serious, what is actually happening? Or does the Council of State, as the right side here, think that there are political games, tactic, and that there is no substance at the root of the criticism of the government by the Stortinge in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e904	I do not want to give any characteristics of the opposition in this matter. I'm talking about what we've done. We have taken the reports from the Riksrevision, the work the Riksrevision has done, in the greatest seriousness. We've shown a number of points where we've improved the situation along the way. We've shown a number of concrete points where we've gone into and improved the situation along the way. We've been completely open that this is challenging. We've been completely open that it's complex, and that it'll take time, and we've been completely open that this case is so complex and difficult and involves so many that we should have informed earlier. But it's and shouldn't be anything in what I'm saying now, what I've said in my post, or what I've said in hearings before, which suggests I'm not taking this seriously. One way to describe how we've taken it seriously is to point to the improvements we've made, to point to the material we've brought to Homeland Protection, to point out that Homeland Protection should practice more now, to point out that there are several of the crews who are dressed up and in service when they should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e909	The government shall inform the Size of work on object protection. One of the big surprises for the Stortinget when the Riksrevisions report came was that for the defense, it did not intend to reach a goal in 2014. One had set up a new target in the defense, and that was 2025. It was quite fresh news for the Stortinget. So one had moved the deadline with at least ten years for when one was going to be in terms of this work. But there's a lot of uncertainty about 2025 too. Can the Council of State explain a little about each of these numbers, 2025, because when the Defense will finally come to the goal of work, which is ten years in overtime and break the promise every day, comes from?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e915	It's a grateful question to answer. It's an important part of the debate we've been in. It is not the government that has moved the deadline in the regulation. So it's an investment plan. 2025 is a number that came up when we saw the complexity of this. We saw that afterwards. The deadline had expired a long time ago – for the reasons we have said. We lacked the competence of this kind of planning, we lacked knowledge of the objects in the Defense, the status of them. That work has been started. In order to point the direction and to be ambitious, we created an investment program that said we were going to spend 450 million. kr. We turned off 50 million. kr every year for nine years to come. We will take this work seriously. So it's an investment program, not a transfer of that deadline, as many people think.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e920	Moving the time limit here is no one in this room has suggested at all. The deadline comes from a unanimous growth, that a deadline by 1 January 2015 should be in line with the requirements of the law. That's the way it is. No one in Stortinget has claimed anything else. I don't know where the government has it from. So it's interesting that he now admits that one had no competence, one had not set up resources, etc. in order to attain the time limit laid down. It's rare that we on the Storting get right state councils in this government actually say what's the case. But then it is the whole country project – securing protective objects, which was started in 2016 and will be completed by chance in 2025. But there's a lot of ambiguity about whether it's such that when you're done with that project, one is actually in the goal. My question to the Council of State is: Does the defence staff believe that it is realistic to reach goals in 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e929	First of all, with the move of the deadline: it was the representative of Fylkesnes who suggested it in the previous question. So I had to correct that. So to it with the defense staff: yes, there are uncertainties around it. We have also said that we should review whether we can carry out the work, so that we might be able to get to port earlier. That would have been the wish. I'm dealing with the head of defense in my communication, just because we're constitutionally connected like this. My top professional military adviser and contact with the Defense is the head of defense. The uncertainties that can be explored in the National Audit Office's report are there, and yes, there is an image of the complexity of this. But we've said that we've made an investment plan where we're going to spend the money on a continuous basis. We've said that we know a lot now, so we'll see if we can carry it out. We're going to improve the program, it's our ambition, while we're open – and I hope that's okay – that this is complex.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e938	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e943	I would like to take this opportunity to repeat in this Chamber that we agree with the Riksrevision when it finds that it will still take a long time before protective objects in the police and the Defence have a permanent basic security that fully satisfies the desired level of security. We're taking this seriously. When the regulation on object safety was adopted in October 2010, it was considered that it would not have any significant administrative or economic impact. At the same time, a deadline for implementation was set. Today, we know that implementation has proved far more costly and time consuming than initially foreseen. With the knowledge we now have, we know that it was unrealistic to reach the prescribed deadline in the regulation, 1 January 2015, for all objects. Knowledge of the complexity and demanding object protection work has been a gradual recognition. The complexity and cost of the work are something my government should communicate earlier, more clearly and more collectively to Stortinget. I would like to stress from Stortinget's pulpit that I take self-criticism at this. In the Ministry of Justice's budget proposal for 2019, we have outlined the overall plan that has now been drawn up by the Police Directorate to close the deviations identified by the National Police Audit Office. The plan is that the residual risk of today’s shielding objects will be within the provisions of the new Security Act, as the Directorate understands the law, during 2020. The Government has proposed appropriations for 2019 to enable the Police Directorate to follow up the plan. For the defence objects, the Ministry of Defence launched in 2016 a comprehensive investment programme with a framework of 450 million. kr in order to provide basic security under the Safety Act. The defence has a very large number of shielding objects, and it is a time-consuming and competence-intensive work to monitor them and implement the necessary measures. An overall state of defence features has now been established. The Ministry of Defence has approved three sub-projects and further sub-projects are under consideration. The government has opened up an economic support for the programme and has set aside a total of 180 million. kr in 2019, and the possibility to carry out further work is now under review. I would like to stress that this is not necessarily the money that is the most scarce, but the human resources that are going to – people with a safety professional background who can project and plan the measures. Entrepreneurs must be safety-cleared, and at the moment we have many major building projects in the Defence Department built by clear security contractors because of the conversions and the construction that are being carried out. So we have to look at what it will be practical to get to. Therefore, we will come back in the context of the revised national budget for 2019 – as I also said in the hearing – with a better overview and status of this. Due to technological changes and planned closures, some defence features could fall out of the list of protective features in the coming years. That means that not all objects on today's list are going to be prioritised in the work of repairing their protective status. Anyway, I want to remind you that an object is not secured under the regulations, not that it is unsafe. This means that the objects may be secured by several different types of measures, even if the measures do not fully comply with the provisions of the regulation. They can also be guaranteed by redundancy, that is, that the function can be maintained by taking over it by another device, and thus that the purpose for which we are actually protecting it is maintained. The NSM Director pointed out in the hearing that the method also has an impact here. An anomaly may indicate a breach of a code, but it does not necessarily say how much is up or down. New objects can be established, other objects are phased out, and there may be new threat assessments that affect work, such as: have looked at cyber and ICT security in recent years. I'm saying this, because we don't want to be 100 pst. finished with something in this area because the threats will change, the objects will change. That's why we'll always have to work with object protection, because objects will go in and out of lists when the need changes in work. In the National Audit Office’s 2015 survey and in the 2017 hearing, there was a great deal of focus on the weaknesses in the police and defence work on property protection with security forces. I am pleased that the National Audit Office recognises the efforts made between the first and second revisions of this area, when they say that ‘the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence have improved the follow-up to the use of security forces by the police and the Defence.’ At the same time, the National Audit Office points out that there are still significant challenges in this area as well. We are therefore in the process of following up on the Riksrevision findings and recommendations related to the securing forces. It is important and right that the Riksrevision and the Control and Constitutional Committee have put object protection on the agenda. We know that social security and preparedness are a work we never finish, a work that requires constant attention from both government and the Storing. We therefore believe that we also need to look at the threats we face. The world is changing rapidly. That's why from the first day we got into government, we've been dealing with the whole spectrum of work on social security and preparedness, not just object protection. We have had a significant economic boost in Defence, in the police and in ICT, to mention something. The work on object protection will be given priority in the future, not only in the 2019 budget to which I have referred, but also in the future state budgets. The ministries will follow up the dialogue with their underlying agencies. We take over the criticism that has been raised from the Riksaudition, and the signals that we now get from Stortinget through the setting today. The staging has adopted a new security law. The implementation of it is followed up by the government, and we are in the process of laying down new regulations and bringing the law into force from 1 January 2019. In the work on new safety laws, it has been important to establish precisely that it is the function to be ensured and that cost-benefit assessments have to be made of the security measures. This has also been achieved by Stortinget through the treatment of the new Security Act. In the context of the implementation of the new law, new assessments will be made of both objects and protective measures, and this will be followed closely in the future. So object protection is a dynamic field, and it's a high priority field, but also in areas that are highly political priority, we have to balance. When the threat picture changes, our priorities need to change so that we are at the best we can stand up to today's threats. Of course, we need a long-term response to the major threats, to war and conflict, but we also need to focus on the most current and immediate threats. In recent times, simple but deadly attacks on soft targets have been a major threat in Europe. It has called for the strengthening of the PST, the police present, better training the police, close cooperation between the PST and the Intelligence Department. Finding this balance between preparedness for war and a serious crisis and preparedness for various types of terrorist attack is also part of being responsible as a government and responsible as a politician. I look forward to a good and constructive dialogue with the Stortinget on these demanding balances in the future as well. There is no doubt that our challenges are great, and that we need to make priorities on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e977	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e982	Thank you for this time the Prime Minister is taking part in the debate, which she did not do in the serious debate last year. Some of what was highlighted by many, not just the opposition, is the obligation to disclose. Because under the Constitution, the government has a responsibility to inform the Storting properly and adequately. It is clear – and the Prime Minister has admitted it – that, in the context of the 2016 state budget in the autumn of 2015, completely incorrect information was given about the status of object protection to Stortinget. When the police department discovered it, they gave a verbal message to the department. As it did not help, they sent an e-mail to the department. And as they said themselves, to give it a note, they also sent a letter in writing on 20 November, that is, before the Stortinget adopted the budget, but without correcting the draft budget. Does the Prime Minister see that there is a clear breach of the Constitution § 82?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e991	The information provided in 2016 had a basis for misinterpreting the status. It was also answered why this was the case in the hearing last year, by Anders Anundsen, where he points out that this is because there has been talk about insurance measures, i.e. temporary insurance measures. However, as I said in the hearing, it has a basis for misapprehending what was said there. But it is true that the correct status has been reported in the post-budget budget, and that means that even if that was the basis for the information that was not sufficient at the time and could give a wrong impression, the correct status has been disclosed the Magnitude time after time. Therefore, I believe that Stortinget has been well informed in these matters on this issue, and it does not appear to be a breach of the information obligation of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e998	So one year later, when the next state budget was presented, there was no error there in 2015. That's not what I asked. What I asked was, when the government's budget and the Ministry of Justice's budget were under review in 2015, there was a budget error. The ministry was made aware of this, but without further telling the Storting that what was in the budget proposal was wrong. Can the Prime Minister really believe that knowing that one has said wrong to the Storting and not correcting it is not a breach of Section 82 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1003	The correct situation is therefore given to the Storting in all subsequent budget rounds on this, without any misunderstandings, so I believe that this has been corrected in the form of the information given to the Stortinget later.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1008	So the Prime Minister believes that when the error was not corrected – it was known, but was not corrected for the Stortinget – and even repeated in letters from the Minister of Justice in spring 2016, is it satisfactory with regard to the government's obligation to inform the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1014	I believe that we have informed about the actual circumstances of this issue, but I have admitted that we should have talked more and more coherently about where challenges arise in relation to the entire object protection area. But I believe that this issue has been corrected by the fact that other actual information is given in recurring budgetary information given to the Storting after that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1019	I record that the Prime Minister thinks it's okay that a government council knows that it's wrong what you're saying to the Stortinget, let alone correct it, but says it the following year, in the next budget. That's pretty special. But in addition, as we tried to get answers during the hearing, it is clear that the government has been operating for a long time that the defence – as we just heard in the previous round here – now plans not to finish their projects until 2025, without the Storting being informed of that postponement. Does the Prime Minister believe that this is also satisfactory with regard to the Basic Law's obligation to provide information in Section 82? So here, the department knows that they have a completely different time horizon than the Great thing is presented to, without the Storting getting along with it. Is that good enough information?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1026	In the budgets of the Ministry of Defence in recent years, the Stortinget has been made aware every year that object protection work is more demanding and more costly than what was originally done. But then there is not 2025 as a date set up, because there is a project where the last bit is to be completed in a rather large project. That is why I have also said that I am self-criticizing that we have not informed enough about the complexity, coherence and development of these projects to the Stortinget, and this is one of the areas we take for granted that we should be better informed. But it is that the Storting has been informed that it is more demanding, and that it is more costly, without the Storting having had any comments on the issues in the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1033	Stortingsrett Hans Fredrik Gruvan said that there is never any doubt about who is responsible – the Prime Minister. That's the way it is. Today, there is a motion of censure, and if it does not get a majority, the proposal that the Christian People's Party is promoting will have a majority, because then – and I will believe the other opposition parties too – the Senter party will join that proposal in round two. Then is the question to the Prime Minister: What position does she have on the decision that is then taken by the majority, where it says that the work is highly critical and very serious, and on the criticism that the government has received for the work done on object protection? What is the position of that decision, and what is the change in behaviour of the government, when they get the strongest possible majority against themselves in such a serious matter, where one is to secure objects, secure the preparedness of people, secure the country against terror?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1040	Let me stress that in the government we also take the Riksrevisions reports seriously, and believe it is serious that we are not where we should be. Then we can have a discussion about the reasons why we're not there. Some of it's about the ambition of where we were going to be, obviously not being able to fulfill, because it's more complex and demanding. But I agree that the actual situation is a situation that we also take very seriously. We've done that all the time since these reports came. That is why we now have a plan related to police protection, and we have said that we should report on timelines and the defence plan in the revised national budget. That means we're going to have a clearer follow-up to these projects. The challenge with regard to the defence objects is that we now have an overview of the status and can go through all the content of the projects. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1045	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1050	So there's a plan for this, and we're going to get back to the Storting. It is the most important behavioural change related to this – that now we also have a significantly better overview.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1055	The decision states: ‘The size believes it is highly critical and very serious that the government has not followed up well enough the work on object protection with regard to the basic protection of protective features and the protection of objects by the use of security forces from the police and the Defence of the Home Office, as well as that there has been a lack of information to the Stortinget about delays and costs.’ Then I have to understand the Prime Minister so that if this is adopted, we will in future get better information for the Storting, there will be fewer delays, object protection will be better, and the decisions we have made in Storting will be followed up. Will the Prime Minister take this decision seriously? And does the Prime Minister comment that after her first five years in the Prime Minister's chair, the criticism is so strong in such a fundamental area as readiness?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1067	I have said that I take seriously the control and results of the National Audit Office. The government has done that since the first report came. We have taken self-criticism in the information related to Stortinget, and we see the need to carry out the work. That is why we are now making sure that we are on track with the police plan by 2020, and we are going to deliver a plan in the revised national defence budget. So it's important to say that we also have to ask the question of why we are in this situation. That's because – which is quite obvious – we set a deadline based on a lack of information when the regulation was made. This costs a lot more, it's a lot more demanding, and it's a completely different canvas to bleaching than what you saw at the time you made this regulation. Then it'll take longer. We can be clear that at some point we should have informed better – and more collectively – about this, and take self-criticism for it. But I might also think that the opposition should think about how complex this case is, and that it has a history that more than us are involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1074	Then the prime minister got the extra seconds back.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1079	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1085	Svein Harberg from the Right started the debate by calling it a political game, what we in the opposition were running with. It's not a political game, it's very serious. In its ultimate consequence, it is bloody serious how we work on preparedness in a country. So the spokesperson of the Progress Party, who said that he had a good conscience for everything that was delivered – a good conscience for everything that was delivered? Does the Prime Minister have the same opinion as Svein Harberg, about a political game, and the same view as the Advance Party – good conscience for everything that has been delivered? Or do we want to see a completely different attitude from that of the Prime Minister than from her party traps here in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1090	I have said that I believe this is a serious matter, and I think we should have informed more fully and assembled for Stortinget. At the same time, I think the debate should perhaps provide a greater basis for reflection from some of those who have previously been in government and made a regulation on the basis of a likely poor decision-making basis at that time – at least what they communicated at that time to the Storting that it should not cost more money, and how far they had come at that time. We may not have had that audacity in the debate, but that is what political debates are like. The important thing for me is to look forward. We now know that this is complex and demanding, and it requires security-cleared people to do the work. We have a lot of investment in Defence, which makes us use our resources heavily on this. We need the capacity we have. It is striking, I think, that the representative of the Battle of Vedum and the Workers' Party in their alternative state budget are proposing cuts in precisely those areas where this work could be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1097	The reflection one has to do here, is that without the Riksrevision, the Storting had not known anything at all. That's the big reflection we have to do. We didn't know we weren't in the goal, and we didn't know that the government didn't give priority to this. We had also not known that they had misinformed the Storting repeatedly. I want to go back to the question about Constitution § 82. The Ministry of Justice informed the budget for 2016 that all the protective items in the field of justice were secured in accordance with law and order. It came in autumn 2015. The police director said this was wrong. The government did nothing more to inform Size correctly. Then the same mistake is repeated by the same minister in the spring of the following year – 2016. Then comes the call in the previous round. There the Prime Minister claims that this was due to POD error reporting, but it turned out to be wrong. Only when we had heard the autumn of 2018 – only then will we know the full truth about it. Is that in accordance with Grundlova § 82?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1106	I have answered the question about how I experience the information that could be misinterpreted in the 2016 budget. I also feel that what Anders Anundsen said about this in the hearings has been asked questions about – where it is not possible to see that it is related to the compensatory measures that have been taken, and that is the background for this. At the same time, I have said, even in the hearings, that I believe this could give rise to a false impression, and that is so that every subsequent budgetary orientation to the Stortinge has been briefed on the actual situation. This error has been corrected in actual other information, in Stortinget, several years later.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1111	Could not parse error? The sentence that all displayable objects in the field of justice are secured according to law and order is 100 pst. Error. It is the same as that it can be misinterpreted when I say that the weather outside is fine, but it is rain. This is how an error interpretation can be done. It's directly wrong. That error was not fixed by government, at several conditions. Only when the Riksrevision gets on the track will that error occur, and not from the government – it's still a long way inside. First of all, in the fall, it turns out that it doesn't apply to the rest of the justice field. The question is whether the Prime Minister can now calmly explain to Stortinget how this cascade of incorrect information that Stortinget has received can be suspended in accordance with Grundlova § 82?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1116	I think, as I said before, that we should have reported comprehensively, we should have reported more coherently to give a broader picture of the challenges associated with this area. We are critical of that. With regard to the question put here, about a number of incorrect information, there is one – one – sentence one place in one budget. The following budgets came up several years later with a different content, which is the basis for this. I have to say, in fact, that when it is already corrected in the 2017 budget in the form of actual other information, the Stortinget has been informed of the actual situation in the sector from the autumn of 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1123	You don't think that is right. The 2017 budget states that work on object protection is progressing. The year before one had said that one was in the goal, and then one says that now the work is going forward. To put it this way, the size has reason to be a little confused by that kind of correction, if we can call it that. The Prime Minister now stands here and will only take self-criticism on the information and that one could be clearer before and after. Would the Prime Minister here, towards Stortinget, regret that the information that one had moved the deadline or the goal of reaching the goal of the 2025 Defense Object Protection did not come at a much earlier time, and that he came from the Riksrevision and not from the government itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1130	I have said that we should report on this more collectively. If 2025 is the right time, we can't say today either. The government will come back to that, as we have said, in the review we are going to have in the context of the revised national budget. In the hearing, we have said that we will report on this in the revised national budget when we have an overview of how many measures are involved and how much the actions to be implemented on those objects that are now finally identified will actually cost. It's important to remember that these objects were not fully mapped in terms of their state when we took over the government power. They were so designated and there have been rounds of designation and review thereof. There has been a review of the state, and now there is a need for a review of the measures. They have started with those who are critical and most important, and there are a number of further measures. The question of 2025 remains, is a question that the government has never taken a decision on, and that will only be clear at the moment we have presented the report in the revised national budget, which I would already signal at the hearing. I agree that some of the information we have had has been critical, but precisely in this area, I believe that the revised national budget is the time we have set for the report and for how far we will go with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1141	I note that the Prime Minister has today acknowledged, from the Chair of the Storting, that the government should communicate more clearly, more comprehensively, and on behalf of the government has taken self-criticism and acknowledged that the follow-up has not been in line with the Storting's assumptions. In the opinion of the Prime Minister, what should have been done differently from the government in the field of object protection during the period examined by the National Audit Office, the years 2016 and 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1148	I think the most important thing would have been that the organisation that got the defense in place in 2016 had been in place earlier. It should probably have been in place right after the regulation was adopted, because it is first through the one you get an overview of the status of the objects that have been designated. It's been used too long to designate objects in this process, it's about the state of those objects, and then it's going to be planned and designed, and then you're going to hire contractors to do it. In all of this, everyone has to be cleared for safety. That's the area that would probably slow down time the most. Then I can criticise that we should have done it at an earlier time, but we did it when the first report and the first review from the National Audit Office came to the Defense Department, whereupon the Ministry of Defence made changes and created a better follow-up structure for this. Had it been done in a better and more structured way at that time, we would have gained some more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1155	Error information must be corrected correctly, not only with so-called complete information. In 2017, Erna Solberg said that she did not know about the aftermath of object protection. So two years after the deadline, Solberg did not know that the government was not close to meeting Storting's requirements. Since then, something even worse has emerged, namely that the government actually knew that the Home Office and the police were telling us about the lack of resources to get ready. In the department, it was so clear that they operated with a year of 2025, i.e. ten years after the deadline. It didn't tell the government about it to the Storting, but they made up and disappeared instead reality. Solberg has lamented poor information, but this, in our view, is not the only case of deception and fortification on important security issues. What will Solberg now do to put an end to the government's breach of information obligations towards Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1165	I would like to underline some of what we have already begun to do: in the budget for next year, which is now being dealt with in the Stortinget, there is a plan for the police that is clear when we are going to be in line with the regulation in view of the protective objects that are in the police force. We have said that in the revised national budget there will be an overview and a review on the defence side. We need that time to have state assessments on each object, and therefore also an assessment of which plan is to be implemented. Then we're down to the physical "nitty gritty" level: how much wall and barbed wire are we going to have? What redundancy is that? Is there any possibility of other measures? This has to be on every single object, so that we can clearly see what we have the opportunity to do, and how fast we can do it. In this context, we also need to assess what we have of available knowledge and competence in order to be able to follow these things. There is a lack of security-cleared persons to do this work, and it is currently the largest bottleneck.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1172	There were many words, but there was not a very clear answer to the question of the government's breach of information obligations to Stortinget, as we have also seen in other cases. We saw what happened to the satellite case, as I mentioned in the debate earlier. We saw it with the contribution to the training of militias in Syria, where they refuse to inform us of who they have trained for warfare there. We know that the obligation to provide information is crucial for Norwegian democracy and the trust between the Storting, the population and the government. But we have a government that has taken a little light on this constitutional information obligation. I would like to have an answer as to what the government will actually do to change the practice, so that the government stops breaking the disclosure obligation to Stortinget and rather fulfills this obligation to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1181	I believe that the representative of Moxnes now confuses two questions: the question of how transparent we should be about important security measures, and the question of information obligations towards Stortinget. I believe that in the other two cases mentioned, we have not broken the information obligation. The Stortinget has also, through the treatment they have had of those matters, found out. But there are a number of issues where, for security reasons, information will not always be publicly available. There may be issues of importance for national security; there may be issues of personal security importance. This could be done, for example, by: be related to who has been trained and other, and their protection at a time. So here I think that the representative of Moxnes is not talking about the obligation to provide information in line with the provisions of the basic law on information obligations. We also need to ask when to take care of security issues. I believe that the obligation to provide information was also made clear, for example. on the issue of investment in new satellite surveillance measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1188	In the work on these issues, there is a lot to consider, and we have the Riksrevision report as a starting point. It's hard to interpret the answer when the Minister of Defense says, "No, when it's about Home Security, we think in a slightly different way, and that's why the speech shows that it's better. How should we, who are supposed to sit and work on this and try to raise this issue, be able to see whether to start using new calculation methods to get better results?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1193	Every year, at the Foreign and Defence Committee, the Stortinget will be briefed on the status of Norwegian preparedness related to the Defence. They are also briefed on all changes made to these concepts for how to measure them, every single year. We have made some major changes in how we assess our defence in the future, because we feel that the security policy situation is the reason why we need to have faster clear time. That means that if you read an old report and then you find a new report, you might find that there's a big difference. It's because the old report was based on a different time of security policy, and therefore a different time of clarity. There are changes, and this is actually something the Storting is being informed about. It is a bit challenging that one part of the Storting should be informed — that is confidential information in substance — while this may not be transferred to the work of the Control Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1198	My point is that it's now the report we're dealing with, and then it's the measurement methods that the report is based on, which must be the starting point. The report shows that there has been no impact from the first to the second report. Then it is not gratifying for us that the Minister of Defence is showing us that we now have new methods of calculation, and that is why it is solved. It'll be hard. I see well that in the future there may be reason to change this, but the report is actually about what has happened before.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1203	I understand that this is big, complex and difficult. I believe that you should perhaps pay more attention to the answers you received from the government in the setting. There you've tried to solve some of these questions to show you what it is. We report on the status of Homeland Protection every year to the Stortinget through the Chief of Defense's review of the position in Defence and how the emergency situation actually is. It has shown that the Home Protection system has been improved every year. I believe that the professional-military briefing would be an important source of information to focus on – when the HV-manager himself clearly says that you are in a much better position now. We believe that you are better trained and better equipped. We've given this a lot of priority, most recently through the comparisons that have been made in Stortinget, to get home protection that can actually do the job a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1210	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1215	We must now acknowledge that the Prime Minister is not sorry. She takes self-criticism for the way she has informed her, she takes on the criticism of the Riksrevision, but the criticism of Storting – quite clearly – she has not commented in a word. The terrorist attacks in 2011 revealed major weaknesses in the preparedness for terrorism. The nation gathered in grief – and in the will to correct weaknesses and strengthen preparedness. The games here at Stortinget also came together. In fact, right-wing forces in the field of preparedness were served as an electoral campaign in 2013. In most contexts, however, in most parties, the desire was to come together, to cooperate, to be stronger here on the Stortinget than the interest of conflict and competition in this policy. That is why, after 22 July 2011, there was a broad consensus here on the high priority of preparedness. Let me add this: there was also a broad consensus that the work would be done in transparency. I would say that this was an important part of the common will after July 22, the will for openness, sometimes painful, but at the same time absolutely necessary. The population expected – rightly – openness and honesty about what failed, and transparency about action to improve preparedness. We got the Gjørv Commission. It delivered — a report of openness and honesty. Both components were considered essential for the success of the necessary improvements. It is against this back ground that we have to read the Riksrevision's very serious reports on object protection, one from 2017 and one from 2018, and the suspension by the Supervisory and Constituent Committee on the Riksrevision's last investigation. There have been classified and unupgraded hearings. The media have illuminated and informed the matter. In sum, we can conclude that the government of Solberg has broken the consensus and principles we agreed on after 22 July 2011 in this area. The securing of protective objects and functions in line with laws and regulations has not been high enough priority. These deficiencies remain significant – over seven years after the terror. The government has failed its duty to keep the Storting informed. Close and trusting cooperation on the preparedness for terrorism between mass destruction and government has ended here, today, in a debate where the majority in this Chamber are going very far in giving strong criticism to the government – and a criticism that I see is that the Prime Minister is barely dealing with. It's her responsibility. It is under her leadership, and as a result of her leadership, that trust has become a distrust in this hall, in this important and sensitive area. Let it be said that securing Norway against terrorism is a broad and complex task. No one doubts it. It is dynamic, demanding and in development. And it's about far more than object protection. We agree with that, and we really don't need any lessons about it. However, it cannot be emphasised clearly enough that object protection was and is important. Instructions on the protection and protection of objects through the use of defence and police forces in peace, crisis and war were one of the main measures to improve cooperation and clarify responsibility between the police and the defence. The Special Committee on 22 July paid particular attention to the need to give priority to this work. The Committee underlined ‘the importance of follow-up within the specified deadlines’. The national audit revealed that this was not done in one, but in two subsequent audits. From 2016 to 2017, significant weaknesses in police and defence object protection were identified. The National Auditorate wrote, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘Neither the police nor the Defence, together or separately, will be able to exercise adequate protection of essential objects when a threat situation so warrants.’ The same gloomy main picture was then redrawn by the Riksrevision in Document 3:11 for 2017-2018, now based on a revision until 31 December 2017. Again, the Riksrevision concluded with ‘very serious’ criticism. That wording implies that there may be a risk to life and health. At the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee on 27 August this year, Prime Minister Erna Solberg admitted: ‘In terms of basic security, there is still a lot that has not been put in place’. The police director confirmed that the police are only in port with the protection of two out of twelve shielding objects. Today we hear new promises that this will be in place by 2020. With regard to the use of hedges, the effort is still far behind the size envisaged. There are still major questions about the operational capability of Home Affairs. There is a lack of clarification of the capacity of the police and the Home Office to protect objects through the use of security forces, and we still cannot be sure that the police and the Defence have a clear and common understanding of the important object protection directive. Against this background, Stortinget has to conclude that there are still serious shortcomings related to this work. It is very serious and provides a basis for regretting the government's failure to follow up work on object protection. Equally serious is the question of information to Stortinget from the government and the Prime Minister in the case in question. Once again, after July 22, we agreed that openness and honesty were crucial. Transparency was important in rebuilding confidence in the population that preparedness had improved. Transparency was important for Norwegian authorities and elected representatives to be sure that preparedness actually improved, in line with decisions and priorities. At this point, too, the government has acted in a way that Storting must regret. I agree with the Christian People's Party representative Gruvan when he says that the government in the processing of the first report of the National Audit Office, in 2017, gave a ‘minor version of the truth’. The left-wing impression was that the Riksrevision criticism was no longer valid. At the time that had passed since the Riksrevision completed its investigations, things had come to a standstill, we heard. It was the impression Erna Solberg – at the entrance to the election campaign last year – was well served to create, and that was the impression she left in the media and at the hearing in 2017. Now we know that this was wrong. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice, Wara, have also signed what object security really is about. By wrongly pointing out that the case is only about the police and the defence’s own buildings – or concrete, as the Minister of Justice is talking about – the members of the government acted in a way that reduced the seriousness of the case and that must also be said to be directly wrong. The majority of the Committee also points to several cases of concrete, misleading government information, including: with regard to the error reporting by the police on object protection in the State budget for 2016. Individually, these cases of misinformation are serious. The most serious thing, however, is the general attitude the government has taken towards the Storting in this case for several years. The government has repeatedly neglected to involve and inform the Storting about the progress of a work that the Prime Minister ought to have been very important to the country and to us in this room. Once again, after July 22nd, we agreed to work closely together, government and big business, on preparedness for terrorism. We agreed to do it based on trust and transparency. That the situation changes is natural, but then the Storting must be kept informed. Nevertheless, the government has failed to inform about deferred time limits in Defense and has failed to inform about increased costs. Both parts had been normal and curative, the Storting is used to it, that there may be changes. But that's when it has to be informed, not grievances. If 2013 estimates of costs did not prove to be comprehensive, the government’s responsibility is to take the consequences and update the estimates. The Prime Minister said in his speech: ‘the knowledge we now have.’ But that is the knowledge we had to have in the past, and as the government has gotten in the past, about which the Storting should have been informed in order to be able to follow the case. Instead, the government has presented made-up truths and let day - to - day power arrogance in an area where life and health can be at stake. Two lengthy audit reports and several extensive hearings had to be carried out before the Prime Minister in the autumn, similar to self-criticism that the information has not been comprehensive enough. It's plain government management, and there's a clear breach of the openness that we in this room, across parties, agreed on after July 22. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on the subject of this debate. The representative of Gruvan talks about a «solid basis» for the criticism. I agree. He referred to the Committee’s ‘in-depth investigations’, which he referred to as ‘very, very disappointing’ and ‘very serious’. He's right. We have behind us two very critical reports from the National Audit Office, and open and closed hearings. The Prime Minister says that she could have been better informed, and she has come up with a word that should perhaps have participated in the competition for new words for 2018: She talks about the information that may have been ‘wrong experience’ – the Storting has misexperienced the government’s information. We have to chew it more carefully to see the consequences. The Prime Minister says that she takes over the criticism of the Riksrevision, but she has not responded if she accepts the strong criticism that is likely to be adopted here in Stortinget today. It also comes from the representative Harberg from the Right, who says that the opposition is most concerned with games, while the government is doing its job. The representative, Leirstein, concludes that the government can have a ‘good conscience’ for what it has received under adopted budgets. If, after examining this serious matter, this is the situation and role of the government parties, having read what is likely to be the decision of the majority in this case, there is reason to be very concerned about further follow-up. It is also alarming in the light of the previous hearing, where the government took self-criticism. Now it seems that the government parties are back where they paint the picture and owe it to others. I therefore repeat the Workers' Party's conclusion: We regret the government's lack of follow-up of object protection with regard to basic protection of protective objects and the protection and protection of objects by the use of security forces from the police and the Defence of Home Affairs, including poor information to the Stortingen about delays and costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1283	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1289	I didn't intend to take a reply, but I got such a clear invitation. First of all, I have to replicate that I did not say that the opposition was driving games, I said that parts of the political environment seem to be more concerned with games than with the matter – just so it's corrected. So to what made me take a line: the representative Gahr Støre was very clear that there was going to be openness and honesty in the follow-up after July 22. Does Gahr Støre think that the Stoltenberg government in 2013 was open, honest and sincere to the Norwegian people and the Storting about the situation in 2013 when it was about the fulfilment of what was the prerequisite in deadlines and goals, when it was obvious that they would not achieve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1296	I think it might be useful for the political environment to know who in the political environment the representative Harberg thinks is gambling. I assume it's going in the direction of the opposition, but it might be useful to clarify it later. Yes, I believe that Prime Minister Stoltenberg and the government did what they could to facilitate this work. We had 2011, we had the special July 22nd Commission, we had the Gjørv Commission, it got a big job going. I myself sat in that government, and the Minister of Justice of that government has explained to the Committee on the Work done. So it's the follow-up that comes, where you have to learn all the time, and if there's not enough money, if there's not enough schedules, it's a perfectly open case to come to the Storting and say that this should change. But it hasn't happened, and it's on the basis that the government hasn't proven to be a learning organisation that shared knowledge with the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1303	I almost have to repeat the question, because I asked if Gahr Støre believes that the Stoltenberg government was open and honest and reported back to the Stortinget about the status of the object protection, and that they obviously would not achieve the objectives within the deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1308	I believe that the government of Stoltenberg was open and honest, and that when it left early in the autumn of 2013, there was still time for these deadlines to be met. Had that government continued, it would and should have had to announce that the deadline was difficult to reach – if it had knowledge of it, if it had come to that conclusion, both in terms of budgets and deadlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1313	I record that the representative Støre is engaged in transparency, information and information obligations. In December 2007, when the representative Støre was Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Stoltenberg Government, a proposition was promoted to the Stortinget on the Security Act where it was written that: «the proposals as a whole should not involve significantly increased costs». That's what they told Stortinget about. We know today the fasit. What does the representative think about the accuracy of the information he was in, in relation to the information he gave to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1323	With regard to the success security of the representative Leirstein – when we discuss what has happened in the last few years since July 22, after the Gjørv Commission, after all we know about how vulnerable we are – he has to go back to 2007 to figure out what was then assumed to be the cost of this. The fact that this should not lead to costs, as we've learned gradually, has obviously not been right. Then it is a government responsibility to say – with what we now know, with the scope, with what we have learned dramatically after July 22 from the thorough Commission work done in another terrain – that we must follow up and deliver the goods. That in 2007 we should be able to predict conclusions that were reached in 2013, 2014 and 2015 – that is not the case. But a government that gets that knowledge must immediately inform the Storting about it, so that we have a common understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1328	Then it could be exciting to ask if the representative Gahr Støre believes that the image that started to be given in 2007 has recently been corrected, which was followed when the Royal Resolution was promoted in 2010 by saying that this should not have costs. And just before you left in 2013, when you had a short time left to reach the deadlines for work, did you still believe that this was on duty, and that the previous government was going to deliver within specified deadlines?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1333	The National Audit Office has not revised 2007, they have not revised 2010, they have not revised 2013. They have gone into and looked at the work that has been done in recent years, by this government. I would like to take part in a seminar on what happened to the previous government, but this is a very eye-catching discharge from a representative who says that the government can have a good conscience after the most comprehensive critical remarks of a national audit I have ever seen. They use the most serious words they have: ‘very serious’. It means danger to life and safety. And then Leirstein is going back to 2007 and is going to discuss what happened then. That's not interesting for this situation. It just confirms that the bulk of the population here, with the two government parties, does not take the matter seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1338	It is such that this case has a back cover. It is such that someone should have done a job before the government that is sitting today took over, and there is no doubt that they did not deliver. This, of course, makes the job tougher when the starting point was that this would not cost anything particularly with money. Today we see that we have soon spent 20 billion dollars. kr to comply with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions adopted. Of course, this national audit report deals with these years, to which the representative Gahr Støre refers, but there is a backstop here about what work was done. My question is really whether you are satisfied with the job that the government did until this government took over. I guess the representative Gahr Støre is very pleased with that. But I would like to confirm that he is satisfied with the job he was in, and did in relation to the basis that was laid for what was to be done in this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1345	I encourage the representative to crawl out of the back porch and discuss the reality today. I am pleased that I was in a government asking for an undefiled and honest report on the state of Norway. I am pleased that the parties in this will deal with the committee chaired by Hareide, in an open and honest way. I am pleased that then Minister of Justice Grete Faremo and the Minister of Defence of the Government who was sitting there went through a great deal of work to prepare what was necessary in the light of the new knowledge, in order to escalate. I am dissatisfied that we had to leave in 2013 because of the election result. Then there was a new team that was going to work on, and we were busy working with that team to increase readiness in openness and cooperation. The National Audit Office has shown that this has not happened. The representative is holding on in 2007 and 2010, we can discuss this, but he has therefore believed that this government can have a good conscience for the work it has done. That does not mean – I think – many parties in this Greatness, including parties with which he will cooperate in government. The representative should take that seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1354	I understand that Jonas Gahr Støre does not want to talk about earlier times, and he was lucky, because the National Auditor did not assess this in 2014, what had happened and not happened in the period 2010–2013. We have now been told that Stortinget was given incorrect information both in 2007 and in 2010 when the regulation was made. When we learn that the Storting is misinformed, should we not take it seriously and consider what consequences it might have for those who may have misinformed, or is there different thinking according to the type of government that has misinformed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1360	If an estimate has been made that turns out to be wrong, in the light of the experience gained in implementing decisions, it is a very honest thing – as I said in my post – to come to Stortinget and inform that new estimates, new knowledge have led to adjustments. Then I think the Stortinget is constructive about it. That's what this government hasn't done. It has not informed about deferred deadlines, has not informed that the cost estimates have changed – it should have done so. Then I think it's not a mistake initially, but you've made an assessment based on what you had of information. Then there's new information, and then the estimates can change. Then it is a good thing to come to Stortinget and inform about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1365	The Special Committee, chaired by Knut Arild Hareide, presented a number of actions and stated clearly that all objects should be classified by the end of 2012 and that they should be fully secured by the end of 2013. It was two months the sitting government had in that period. No information came to the Stortinget at the time from the government, after having the 22nd July Commission and the Special Committee, and they had full knowledge that what had been built on in the past was deficient, and that there were huge costs to come. They told you that, and they didn't say anything to the Storting. Does Jonas Gahr Støre agree that once we have been told about these things, it would be natural – as Jonas Gahr Støre goes to the main penal measures in the parliamentary governance system – that perhaps others are beginning to look at the clear violation of Section 9 of the Liability Act that occurred during his reign from some responsible government councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1370	I am aware that the Control and Constitutional Committee has gone beyond this government's period of consultation. I am concerned that the Minister of Justice has been heard from the government I was in, who has explained the work we have done. What this matter is about is the follow-up to the Riksrevision report in the areas in which the Riksrevision has entered, during the period considered by the Riksrevision. That is the issue in Stortinget today. Then Carl I. Hagen would like to open up a new case in other periods of time. I like to participate in it and prepare for it. But it's the Riksrevision's work, the review of their audit, we're now talking about, and where the representative Carl I. Hagen and his party think the government can have a good conscience. It's alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1375	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1380	When Erna Solberg took over as Prime Minister in 2013, she was very critical of the emergency policy, and she was concerned that her government would be much better. There they would be more concerned with following up their decisions. They should dare to get more involved in the details and how the policy worked. They increased the focus on preparedness through, among others: a contingency element at the Office of the Prime Minister, and there should be more coordination. It's kind of the fasit that we're left with when we're sitting with the National Audit Office reports. The fact that two reports from the National Audit Office show a lot of criticism. It is a criticism, first and foremost, of the fact that object security is not in line with regulations, but also of the fact that the Ministry of Justice and Defence has not prioritised securing its own objects, that the Ministry of Defence does not have an overview of the state of its own objects, and that in several ways the government has not informed the Storting correctly and well enough, neither on expected costs nor on completion. It is not only the Prime Minister who is dependent on the National Audit Office to acknowledge that she did not have an overview. On 21 March 2017, the Prime Minister said in the Stortinget hearing: ‘The government was not aware that the situation was like this until we actually received the Riksaudition report and got a status on it. That was when you first saw that it was worse." Nor was Stortinget familiar with the situation, but was dependent on the National Auditor's report to get the correct information about what we were up against. For five years, the Prime Minister has been head of government and has left to his government councils and to the departments to give priority to progress and appropriations, and it has produced worse results. Then it is not supposed to be hidden that this government has sent both the police and the defence into major reforms, which have meant that the reform work has taken time and resources, among other things. from work that could have agreed to update and improve the operational capability of our preparedness. I have to say that it is both interesting and slightly emotive to listen to this debate. It is reassuring to hear that the government parties have made themselves some kind of division of labour here today. The representatives from the Right and the Advance Party are going out and trying to make a sense that this is about a political game. Then the government's representatives come and are a little balanced again before they go into a line change with Jonas Gahr Støre, where the Progress Party and the Right go all the way back to 2007 to try to disrupt what is the actual basis for what we are dealing with here today, namely the two reports from the Riksrevision that were issued in 2017 and 2018. It's not like the Riksrevision is playing games. It's not that what we've pointed out from the criticism that the Riksrevision has made is a game. What the National Audit Office is doing is pointing out the status of a case and placing the responsibility for what may not have been done. That's what we're dealing with here today. That is why it is encouraging to see what dualism the spokesmen of the government parties and the state councils here today are acting on such a serious and important matter. But it's also interesting to hear the debate, because it's very interesting to see the tension in today's debate between the reality of the representative Leirstein or the representative Harberg and the reality of the Christian People's Party representative. I very much agree with a good part of what the Christian People's Party has brought up here today. I understand well when they say that there is a solid basis for criticism, and they point to very many of the same things that the rest of the opposition also points to. But excited in the way that one chooses to deal with such a serious matter, is really quite perceptive. There are some aspects of this matter through the debate that one must also comment on, and one thing I want to comment on is that the Stortinget cannot relate to the fact that there may have been a discussion between the Defence Department, the Ministry of Defence and the National Audit Office about what are the right parameters for preparedness. The Storting cannot relate to that. We have to deal with what the National Audit Office has actually done. I find it unfortunate that in the change of line, the Minister of Defence suggests that the Riksrevision's way of assessing preparedness is not good enough, or not good enough. In any case, it should not be seen as an invitation to us to nuance ourselves away from the National Audit Office's assessments of preparedness, the Riksrevision conclusions about it, the Defence Agency might have another way of assessing it. What is being treated today must be what the Riksrevision has said, also about the preparedness of the Home Office. I would also like to mention that if the motion of censure does not get a majority today, it is the proposal that the Christian People's Party has tabled, a serious proposal, as serious as it may be without being a motion of censure. It is a proposal which, if the motion of censure does not get a majority, will probably have a majority. I'm a little worried about the Prime Minister's review and the answers given in the change of line, about how serious the government will actually take that decision and the follow-up to what is in today's position when it comes to both correcting various errors and being more open in its information to the Storting. I think that is one of the things that remain unanswered in today's debate, whether it is one or the other proposal that is being adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1404	Unfortunately, we are here again – a year and a half ago – and will probably deal with a very serious report from the Riksrevision. After hearing the Prime Minister and the Councils, I think there is a need again to recall the content of the report. It documents that once again the government has not done its job on terror protection and preparedness well enough. It's not possible to emphasize many times the seriousness of it. Protecting their own people in crisis is one of the most fundamental tasks of a government. The Prime Minister has been present and speaking in this debate, and this is a major improvement from last year's debate. She has also taken self-criticism that the government has not communicated earlier, more clearly and more collectively to Stortinget, as it is called. I believe that the Prime Minister has reason to complain, that she is right to take self-criticism, but the content of this self-criticism is not close to being as strong as we need. Compared with the seriousness of the matter, with the content of the report and especially given that this is the second time, self-criticism is sylt thin. This case has a degree of seriousness that should make it clear that the government was really sorry. There's a lot of reasons for that. First of all, this is a matter where the government has provided incorrect information to the Storting and has not properly corrected it afterwards. Secondly, this is a matter in which the Stortinget has clearly asked the government to give priority to a job, but where the government has not followed up as intended. Thirdly, this lack of follow-up has also come after the government received a very critical report from the Riksrevision on its table. It was after 22 July 2011 that an overall increase emphasised very clearly – through the examination of the work of the Special Committee, chaired by the representative Knut Arild Hareide – that the deadlines for complying with the Object Protection Regulation should be followed. Now we know that the government still chose to downgrade the follow-up of these deadlines, while the Stortinget in the 2016 budget was told that it had come to the goal of securing the justice sector by the deadline. That error was never – we have been given a clear explanation here today – corrected in an understandable way. Last year, when the Riksrevision had explained to Stortinget what the situation really was, Stortinget was once again clear that this was a very important matter. The members of the government then gave the impression that they were in the process of cleaning up, that the matter was to be given priority and the money was granted. Now we know that that's not what happened. In the defence sector, security of the buildings was not better followed up during 2017. In the justice sector, the Minister of Justice chose to shift the appropriations for object protection in the 2018 budget, even though the Directorate of Police reported that it would delay the work. Like the representative Arnstad, I would like to stress the seriousness of the criticism that is expected to be adopted, through the proposal by the Christian People's Party, but also the very clear criticism that is in the comments of the government parties in the vote. It's strange with this gap between what's written there, even what was said on the radio this morning by the representative Harberg, and that tone the government parties have had here in the hall when this is actually being treated. It is as if any ability or will to criticise the government is darkening as soon as the Prime Minister is in space. It's a trick. Our view in this matter is clear – the government will follow majority decisions from Stortinget conscientiously. If you see that the follow-up is difficult or is delayed, you should inform the Storting about it. I would also like to add that if the government had come to the Stortinge at an earlier time and said that it was unrealistic, too expensive or inappropriate to follow up the decisions that had been made, in the manner that was intended, a host in his full right to ask the Storinge prioritize differently. In that case, all the explanations or explanations now provided could have been submitted to the Stortinget in time. The problem is that it was not done in time, and the Storting is totally dependent on the necessary information coming, even when the information is uncomfortable with the government. Not every day SV chooses to support a mistrust suggestion. It was no later than one on Monday that we voted against because we thought it was too poorly justified. We believe distrust is a parliamentary tool to which there must be very high thresholds to use. But in cases like this, where the Storting has revealed that the government has not done a good enough job of following up what it has said it should do, or informed the Storting about the situation in a sufficient way, we believe that the basis is present. The consequences for society if police, defence or critical societal functions such as water and electricity are out of play are very serious. It doesn't have to be underlined. That is why it is up to the government to take this work very seriously. The National Audit Office's second report tells us that what the government has done has not been good enough. They call it ‘very serious’, a concept they themselves say they only use ‘in situations where the consequences for society or the citizens concerned are very serious, such as the risk of life or health’. We wouldn't do our job as elected voters if we didn't respond to such a report, especially when it comes for the second time. Today, the Prime Minister had the opportunity to sincerely complain, regretting that the government had not prioritised a clear direction from Stortinget after working with the Special Committee, regretting that the Stortinget had received incorrect information that had not been corrected before the Riksrevisions report came, not only information that could be perceived as a mistake. ‘Deficient information’ is a parliamentary innovation that the Prime Minister has launched today. I don't think we're going to include it in the Constitution right away, to say it like that. Incorrect information is what is crucial in this case. The political revelation is that a prime minister who just had an executive role in this area as his main argument for being elected Prime Minister is in this situation today. The key to the issue of trust is the follow-up of commitments to the Storting and the question of correct information. We've seen a government that doesn't answer questions, that don't have the ability to take self-criticism, that seems very self-satisfied and self-righteous. Lack of humility is a very clear feature of the behaviour of the government parties here today. One should remember that these are parties that for a long time did a great deal of criticizing the Workers' Party for being arrogant in power. What we see now is a show of power arrogance. It must also be a cross of thought for the Christian People's Party that the government does not go one centimeter further in lamenting today, with the serious criticism that is on the table than they have done before. The government can trust that it will not be killed, obviously, but there is no doubt that this behavior weakens this government. We were open to reconsider the motion of censure if there was a clear regret in this debate. It is my very clear assessment that the Prime Minister has not said anything that would indicate that our assessment, that there is a basis for distrust of the government, is changing. We will therefore maintain the proposal in the vote, and I would ask the SV's group to vote in favour of distrust of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1438	Since accession in 2013, the government has been focused on improving security and enhancing preparedness. The government has improved the operational capability of the Home Office. Guards and fuses are the primary mission of the Home Guard and HV is the main part of the Defence Security Forces. But the government has not come as far as it wanted in terms of basic preventive protection of objects. The reason for this is that implementation has proved to be far more complicated, cost-intensive and resource-intensive than was foreseen when the regulation on object safety was laid down in 2010. The deadline set for 2015 in the regulation has proved unrealistic. In addition, the work on object protection has had little attention until 2013. Insufficient funding of defence over many years resulted in a large maintenance kit run, a shortage of spare parts and cut-offs in operational operations. This also affected the operational capacity of the Home Office. The long-term defence plan has reversed the trend. Step by step, the defense is built up. There is now consistency between the structure adopted by Stortinget for the Defence and the appropriations made available by Stortinget. The alternative has been a managed liquidation, as the defense chief Haakon Bruun-Hanssen characterized the development of the Defense as. The government has significantly increased the budget of Homeland Protection. The strengthening of HV started in the previous planning period and is continued and reinforced in this long-term planning period from 2017 to 2020. In 2017, the Heimevertet was granted an additional grant of 191 million. kr, just to pick up the maintenance trigger, purchase several spare parts and increase the emergency stock, as well as money for the purchase of anti-lock equipment, which has helped to increase the object protection capability of HV. The training activity in Home Protection has increased. Home security is getting a lot of new material – new uniforms, new weapons, new connections and new vehicles are being acquired. Recently, a contract was signed for the purchase of 360 new field wagons for the Home Protection Agency. In addition – and it is not mentioned in fact – tens of special vehicles are transferred from the Army to HV, which will be armed with heavy weapons and which provide HV with enhanced preparedness and, in fact, greater impact power. The Home Security budget in 2019 is expected to increase by 216 million. kr. It gives more practice to the soldiers, and it gives more new material. The duration of the annual training will in all HV regions up to the next year be equivalent to the duration of the exercise in the highest priority HV districts. In addition, several HV soldiers shall practise throughout the year. The Head of the Heimevernet, Major General Eirik Johan Kristoffersen, stated in the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee that: ‘The operational status of Home Protection has been continuously improving in recent years. Home security is increasingly being provided with material and ammunition in its emergency storage facilities. This material fulfillment is part of what is called the long-term pavement. The ambition is that the Home Guard should have filled its inventories with mission-critical material during 2018, with the exception of the material to be delivered in new projects. The filling of materials is absolutely necessary because, like the rest of the Defense, the Home Protection system has been in stock for many years without adequate refilling.’ The National Audit Office's survey concerns the protection of the property of the Home Office's territorial units. While the HV is the primary capacity of the defence within object protection, when assessing the overall security capability of the defence, the available capacities of other parts of the defence must also be considered. I mention above all the Home Guard's own effort forces, I mention the guard forces in the garrison, and I also mention elements from the Coast Guard. It is also not necessary to ensure that all listed objects can be secured simultaneously. In a real situation, it may be appropriate to ensure some selected objects. In this case, it must be based on a situation-specific assessment of the object to be given priority in the current situation and of the threats to be faced. The securing strengths may also be transferred between the districts. - Enough about HV. The National Audit Office's report is taken as seriously as possible and is used as the basis for the government's further work on object protection. The report points out shortcomings, but it also points to a positive development from the previous national audit report, which was presented in 2016. And not least: the report illustrates the complexity of this work. When the Ministry of Defence’s instructions on securing and protection in the use of securing forces came into force in 2012, the starting point was very demanding for the Defence. Overall defence plans as a basis for concreteising the right key objects were not up-to-date. The departments that were previously responsible for the planning, development and follow-up of the key objects were all closed down. In 2012, the existing list of defence key objects was reviewed and obsolete objects removed. After the object protection directive came, a new key point directive was established in spring 2013, where responsibility and tasks were shared in the Defence. Finally, there were empowerment initiatives, which were implemented in the period 2013–2015. Defence has updated its defence plans over several years following the new security policy situation. Similarly, NATO's plans for Norway and the North have been updated. It makes us today have a significantly better basis for identifying key objects, including civilians. Against this background, civil key objects have increased through 2016, 2017 and 2018. Closing the deviations in the Riksrevisions report of 2016 has been very demanding – I would say almost impossible. Substantial funds have been allocated to improve basic security in Defence, yes, in fact several billion dollars. The appropriations from Stortinget are not the critical factor in the implementation of better basic security in the Defence so as to comply with the Security Act and the Security Act. It is necessary to set realistic timeframes for the implementation of such complex projects. The projects require special expertise. Special competence is required when describing the need. Special competence is required when projects are to be projected. These professional environments are small and limited in Norway, and those who are going to work on this need to be cleared up for safety. It takes time, it also takes time to contract, and physical work of this variety also takes time to carry out – no matter how quickly you want it to go. The implementation of object safety measures and the speed to be achieved are also determined by other laws and regulations to be observed in the project implementation. If we don't do that, we're going to give food to the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1471	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1476	It is very interesting that it is the representative of the Harek Riveres who takes the floor in this matter. He has had a role in one of the most critical things that has happened in this matter. This applies to the information contained in the 2016 State Budget from the Ministry of Justice and Defence, where one claimed that one had secured all the protective features in the field of justice. That information was wrong - it was totally wrong. One has not come to terms with the entire field of justice, and one is far from coming to terms with the police. This information was also never corrected by the department, when the Police Directorate pointed this out in the autumn of 2015. Then comes the representative of Riveres, who asks a question to the Council of State Anundsen in March 2016 about how it is, and where he repeats the same error – that is systematic misinformation. What did the representative of the Rivers think of just being lied to by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1483	The representative of Knag Fylkesnes is well aware that the tools of any representative of the city to come into contact with a government council are to ask a written question – whether you are in opposition or in position. I asked this question, despite the fact that I was not in opposition, simply because I, as the elected representative of the public, needed to get the Minister of Justice's clear assessment of what the situation really was, and a written answer to it. I think the Minister of Justice did well. He clarified the misunderstanding – it was VG that raised this matter – that touched on the matter, and clarified in his reply to me what was the situation. One must not dramatize that I asked a question to my own Minister of Justice. It is to be honoured that the government has representatives in Stortinget who have the ability to think critically about their own state councils and have their system-critical instinct intact.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1492	I found a big-time representative, either in position or in opposition, having an obligation to follow up the work of the government. There was nothing critical about it. But when the government has given the wrong information to Stortinget and then gets this pointed out by the Police Directorate – repeatedly it is pointed out – the government does not correct the error. Then the same fault information of the Storting is repeated. Then – when one is aware that that error information has been provided, and when one repeats that error information – we are left in systematic error information, or lie, to call a spade for a spade. And it was the representative of the Harek Rivers who was the subject of this lie. How does the representative experience Riveres?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1500	The representative of Riveres has never felt that he has been lied to by the Minister of Justice. He has never carried such a feeling. The representative of the Rivers was grateful that he received a proper reply from the Minister. The minister mentioned is no longer in the government, so I cannot stand here and answer for a former Minister of Justice and possibly what he thought when he was the pen leader for his own answer. I can answer about my own response to the answer I received. I was comfortable with the answer that came, and I am also in retrospect satisfied that I asked the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1507	Today, we are discussing the Riksrevisions report on the lack of object protection, including: from the Defence. So the representative of the Rivers performs to spend 15 minutes of his speaking time boasting of everything the Defense does, instead of going into what is at the heart of the matter, namely, looking at the Riksrevision's criticism and its follow-up. So my question to him is, is there nothing in the Riksrevision points out on the defense side, to which he can join, and also regret?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1512	If facts are perceived as bragging, we probably have different perceptions of what the word "crusade" means. The facts must not be perceived as so painful to the opposition that they must resort to the caricature of the facts, as one finds in documents to the Stortinget. I spent a long time on the Home Protection System – but not 15 minutes – because the Home Protection System is mentioned in the Riksrevisionen report, and the Home Protection System has a primary function in the object protection system. After all, the primary mission of HV is security and security. Then it has to be clear that the Riksrevision gives a snapshot of the time they're in and they're looking at, but that snapshot is a function of past decisions – or lack of decisions. That's why I felt a need to explain what this government has done in the field of defence policy, not least Home Affairs. You've picked up an inheritance, you've turned it all around, and you've got it all in the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1519	Thanks for the answer. I'll take the self-criticism that I used the word "crust". I recognise that the representative of the Rivers wanted to inform them about the facts. Then I go to my second question: What in the Riksrevision's criticism of the defence will he join and complain?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1524	I want to join in what the Riksrevision specifies, that HV has a key function in the object protection, and that on that basis you need to have a HV that is competent, that has the sufficient capacity, and that is able to fulfill the mission that the Storting has given to HV. And that's exactly what this government has actually done by strengthening HV as much as you've done – cf. my post – not least that HV now exercises more than they have done before. In 2009, none of the HV area forces exercised. Only the effort forces exercised in 2009. And it's clear that a HV that doesn't practice is a HV into the sunset. We've also done something about this: HV is practicing far, far more now than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1531	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1536	As we all know, six years have passed since the Stortinget first dealt with the issues related to object protection and the attack on the government quarter and Utøya. We are in the very political paradoxical situation that it is not until last year and this year that the government says very clearly that they are now in the process of what the Storting has decided on dealing with protective objects. It raises the questions that lie as a subtitle in this discussion: Has the government taken this serious matter sufficiently seriously? Has it followed up what the Storting has decided? Has it really participated in this? That is the main issue of this debate. I have, as the Stortinget is familiar with, followed this matter in various ways over many years, especially from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and it is with some complacency that I now record that the Prime Minister of the country today says she is taking self-criticism. This means, of course, that the government admits that the criticism that has been made against it has been justified. It has not been easy to get that information, I would like to say that. Everyone who has worked on this matter for many years knows that it has been very difficult to get the government representatives, not to talk about the Prime Minister, to say exactly this. So today she's said it, and it means in many ways that we've been very right. It must be noted. It was necessary for her to say so, but there is no regret. It surprises me very much, and I must say that today the Prime Minister is not willing to say that she is sorry, since the Christian People's Party's position must be put under considerable pressure. For there is no doubt that the Christian People's Party's argument and understanding of this matter is entirely in line with what is in the position. I understand the background for this, there may be so-called power-structural reasons that you don't do it, but nevertheless I would say that I believe that the Prime Minister doesn't regret from the Stockholm pulpit, puts the Christian People's Party's position under what I call a considerable pressure. I need to go back a little bit and remind us of what was in the report from Alexandra Bech Gjørv. The Commission had six main conclusions that were devastating to the situation at that time. It also led to the then Prime Minister, Jens Stoltenberg, having the following confession in Stortinget: ‘The Commission demonstrates a failure in Norwegian preparedness and preparedness culture that is more extensive and deeper than I was prepared for. It is difficult to take over." Stoltenberg regretted this situation and the failing preparedness for Stortinget. It's in stark contrast to what we're experiencing today. I notice that several of the representatives, among others. Harberg, who is the case rapporteur on the government side of this case, tries to say yes, it was difficult before. There is an important distinction here in that Stoltenberg came with a basic recognition, which we miss from the current Prime Minister. This is an important difference in the current parliamentary situation, which I am asking the Stortinge to take note of. This is also the case – I would like to remind you, because it is easy to forget these things from a historical perspective – that the Stortinget unanimously adopted a decision to deal with the report of the Gjørv Commission was the Workers' Party's proposal, which contained a significant criticism of its own government. We showed humility in the situation. Of course we had to, because we had the huge tragedy right in front of us that had hit our youth who was executed on the Utøya. What else would we do? But now, when it comes to object protection, which, after all, is an important, but a technical question, today's Prime Minister does not find reason to complain at all. I think that's very regrettable, and I actually think -- to use the popular expression -- that she should have been big enough to do just that. Because it's her government that's been on these reports, it's her government that's got this criticism. There is no expression of a political game in any way; it is actually an expression of a completely necessary control of the government's work in this important area, with the dramatic backbone that this matter has in Norwegian political history and, of course, in our actual history. Then we also know that an important aspect of the follow-up was precisely this which has been discussed here, the instructions on the protection and protection of objects by the use of defence and police forces in peace, crisis and war, which was established by the Royal Resolution back in 2012. It is the compliance of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and Defence with this instruction that the Riksrevision examined and presented documents on it already in Document 1 for 2016-2017. In addition, the National Audit Office on Defence and the Directorate of Police examined compliance with the Security Act and the Code on Object Protection and Basic Protection of Own Protective Objects. As has been said here by several, but I also say so, the case was dealt with in Stortinget in June 2017. The Committee, i.e. the previous Committee, then concluded that the Riksrevision had made the following main findings in its study: One was that the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence ‘has not provided for strengthening and improving cooperation between the police and the defence. Important measures to ensure good cooperation and preparation have not been implemented. [[...]] Thus, there is a risk that important objects will not be able to maintain their operations or functionality in critical situations.» The second was, ‘The two departments have also failed to ensure that the Directorate of Police and Defence have established a permanent basic protection on their own protective features.’ In the 2016 study, the final remark of the National Audit Office was that neither the Minister of Justice nor the Minister of Defence has provided an adequate explanation of the reason why the work on object protection and basic security is not necessary as a matter of priority – not a necessary and good enough explanation. The Police Directorate and the Defence, the current and the former Minister of Justice and Defence, who was then Per-Willy Amundsen, then Minister of Defence Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide and Prime Minister Solberg agreed with the Riksrevision's findings and criticism. When the Riksrevision in a survey states that neither the Ministry of Defence nor the Ministry of Justice, individually or collectively, are able to protect essential and decisive objects, i.e. infrastructure, water, electricity, food supply – functions that cannot be done without more than seven days, as DSB defines it – or the Castle, the Storting or military installations such as the important buildings they are, it is of course very serious, and then it must be taken seriously. That's what the committee did at the time. Two hearings were also held in the previous round, one open and one closed. A closed procedure was subsequently absolutely necessary to clarify the aspects of the case that the government would not share with the public. We had big rounds on the public issue. I now believe, as if, that on issues of population security, the population should be involved. That is an important prerequisite for an open democracy. And not least: the transparency line that was followed after July 22nd should have been continued. I'm still sorry that the government chose to break the publicity line. The most important thing is that the lack of transparency dimmed down the great seriousness of the Riksaudition report in 2016. For my part, I sincerely believe that that was the purpose, that is, to dissipate. Because although the drug was inaccessible enough as it was, a thorough effort was made to misrepresent the substance in the findings further. Also in 2017, there were persistent attempts to wrap it up in the story of buildings and roadblocks, which we have heard now. The Prime Minister understood perfectly well that people were far more concerned with power supply and water supply than exactly this physical object protection. So clearly the same thing happens again. I also register and see that it says in the vote what the Prime Minister has said – it has been referred to, so I do not repeat it. The problem is, as it seems to me, that the Minister of Justice and Defence and the Minister of Defence, with the Prime Minister as the highest responsible, do nothing more than what they must actually do as a result of the very critical bulk of flooding. The criticism was most critical of the lack of follow-up of the object protection directive. That's where the government has done a little, though not more than the Riksrevision still characterises the deficiencies as very serious. In conclusion, I would like to say this – I refer, of course, to the understanding of the current situation of Mr. Terje Andersen: the majority of the committee joined the findings and conclusions of the Riksrevision last time, and even concluded that the government had not been able to follow up the Storting's decisions and assumptions on object protection, and that this was highly critical. This was the last time. Another trick — at least it worked that way — was that the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Right and the Progressive Party, felt that learning that would result from the review of the events on 22 July 2011 was the most important thing. The Right Party and the Advance Party did not join in. There was a rush in the situation. But it was also stated that it looked like both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice had some sort of lesson from the round. Based on the answers we received, we believed that everything was indicative of that. Both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice and Defence said that a number of measures had been taken. I want to say here that it was actually so that we believed in it – a lot. We thought it was too late, but it was still good to hear that it was said. But we had a suspicion, and therefore we promoted the proposal that led to this debate: ‘The report requests the Riksrevision to follow up the case and return to Stortinget with a progress report on object safety as of 29 May 2017.’ So it turned out to be necessary for the Storting to make such a clarification. That's why we're there today. Then we experience the same thing again, and that is why, of course, it is absolutely legitimate, absolutely necessary and absolutely right that the motion of censure being promoted today be promoted, because here the government has not done as the Stortinge has said, and the misinformation is clearly documented already in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1587	The security law behind the regulation, which is also the beginning of the object protection, was promoted by the government of Stoltenberg in Ot.prp. No 21 for 2007-2008. On the economic impact of that legislative proposal, it was said that ‘the proposals taken together should not involve significantly increased costs’. Had it been said that this law and its follow-up would cost a few billion dollars and take a very many years to implement, the Storting might have thought a little better about when they were going to adopt that law. The reason it went well was that it would not cost anything. It was, with the opposition's use of words today, a mere misinformation of the Stortinget. Then, in the Royal Resolution, came a regulation on object protection some years later. The regulation was then worked with the government, and it was said, ‘The new provisions therefore do not entail new costs in themselves’. It should not cost anything. That shouldn't be a big deal. There were no significant things at all. Both the rapporteur and representatives Jonas Gahr Støre and Martin Kolberg have highlighted that the terrorist action in 2011 changed the situation dramatically. I fully agree with that. Then everyone got a waker, and then the Storting gathered, as Jonas Gahr Støre has said. What happened then? Well, the Gjørv Commission was set up and presented, as Martin Kolberg also mentioned, an alarming report to the Stortinget. But is object protection the big, overall issue of strengthening the preparedness for terrorism? Is that what this is about? The Yard Commission had 31 concrete actions — one of the measures concerned object protection. The other 30 were different relationships. So highlighting that exactly object protection, i.e. protecting buildings, machines and different things, is the most important thing when it comes to terror preparedness, I think it's taken out of its context. Because it's not like that. It's an element of the preparedness for terror. In St.meld. No 10 for 2016–2017, the government took these 31 measures. 19 of them were completed, 7 of them were catalogued as ‘under continuous work’ – i.e. work that will never be done, because it is a continuous work effort – and 7 were in progress. After the Stortinget had received the Gjørv Commission's report, we got the special committee, which Knut Arild Hareide chaired. What did that committee do to follow up the Yurv Commission? Yes, it has presented 14 concrete proposals in the form of the 'Government asks the Government...'. How many were concerned with object protection? No one. Object protection had not been found within the Hareide Committee to be followed up by any decision. Of the 14 are the status according to St.meld. No 10 for 2016-2017 that 11 are completed, 2 are in progress and 1 is in progress. So in reality, I don't quite agree with those who say that the exact object protection is the most serious matter. Then we come to the Riksrevision, which has looked at object protection, one of the many things that were to be done. The government parties are also on criticism in the setting that Stortinget is currently dealing with. But we have also noted and taken into account it when the Prime Minister and others have presented self-criticism both during the hearings and now here in the Chamber. Then the question is, what is common in such cases? Is it common for you to go to the strongest parliamentary weapon you have and promote distrust, or is it common for you to be content with taking self-criticism? I cannot remember – and on questions from myself the other day, no one in the National Audit Office could remember – that there had been mistrust proposals when the National Audit Office had promoted criticism. The National Audit Office promotes criticism in approx. 12 cases every year, in addition to Document No. 1st@item: inlistbox So the fact that there's criticism, even serious criticism, from the National Audit Office, is nothing new, but it's never led to any mistrust in the past. Then it's not quite unnatural, if you see this in the context of the political situation after the elections last year, that someone uses the rather eloquent expression 'games', that you try to do what you can to contribute to a kind of government crisis, and that you lure everyone to get into a possible government crisis to get a new government. It's part of the political work, and of course it's part of an opposition that wants to take over power. But when you first go to that step – many say that the main reason is incorrect or incomplete information for the Storting, and more in the opposition are talking about a breach of Section 82 of the Constitution – then it is serious. The case rapporteur read up from the Constitution, and then I can do it to remind the assembly. Now, fortunately, it's in an easy-to-understand language: ‘The Government shall communicate to the Storting all the information necessary for the handling of the matters it submits. No member of the Government shall provide incorrect or misleading information to the Storing or its organs.’;» The law is ready. Here it is a discretionary assessment whether it is broken or not. The opposition believes it is broken, and I am sure that the opposition in many other cases also believes that it is broken, that misleading information has been obtained. There is a repetition in the debate. But if it is to be the basis, it is also a principle that it should be treated equally for everyone. When you go back in time, you can also go a little bit further back in time. When the law came in 2007-2008, or when the regulation came, or when the Stortinget examined the report of the Hareide Special Committee on the Follow-up to the Gjørv Commission in the Stortinget in 2012, the Stortinget should know about the economic consequences of what we are now going to do with preparedness measures, including the object hedge we assume will cost billions of dollars. Here, too, there was an obligation for the government in 2012 to talk about the economic consequences of the follow-up to all the actions and proposals for action of the Gjørv Commission and the Special Committee. There was nothing at all about major economic consequences. I then think it is natural – if serious parliamentary sanctions are to be introduced first – to look at the constitutional sanctions as well. Then I will read Section 9 of the Liability Act: ‘If a member of the Government fails to provide information relevant to the matter, or provides incorrect information, he shall be penalised by fines or imprisonment for up to 5 years.’ When it is believed that the present government has not fulfilled the obligation to provide information, I would argue that the obligation to provide information was not fulfilled when the Security Act was dealt with, when the Royal Resolution came in 2010, and when the Gjørv Commission was dealt with in 2012. In 2012, the deadline for implementing the regulation from 2010 to the end of 2013 was also set. This government joined two months before the end of 2013 and did not come to the covered table, so everything was ready to implement everything that was in the regulation. No, they came to a blank table, a nice table where there was nothing done to clear for dinner or do anything. That's where we say that this government has at least done very, very much. I mentioned everything that had been done after the Yurv Commission and the Special Committee. We also have St.meld. No 21 for 2012-2013, on the preparedness for terrorism, which refers to a number of things that have been implemented and which is also an annex to the Committee’s suspension. Finally, from the first time the Riksrevision pointed out the lack of object protection, in Document 1, the Storting has known that there is a need to do more. And when the first special report came from the National Audit Office, Stortinget knew very well that expensive measures have to be followed up here. Did the opposition parties propose in the budgetary procedure to grant more money — significant amounts — earmarked object protection? No, no, no. And as far as I have learned, there was also no major issue during the budget negotiations last autumn or now in the autumn that we have to have much more money and get ahead, especially for object protection. It is the Stortinge that grants money, and it has been free for all opposition parties to propose earmarked additional funds for object security both at the police and at the Defence Department. Then it hasn't come, and then I don't think it's completely unnatural to believe there's other political things behind it. It reminds me a little bit of when you hold a political speech and have a manuscript that you follow, but where it may sometimes appear in the margin: ‘weak and poor reasoning – raise your voice and wave your arms!’ It is a description of the opposition parties today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1619	I can assure both the President and the previous speaker that I have nothing to write in the margin, but there's a lot on the sides. A joint committee has noted that the Riksrevision's criticism of the government's lack of follow-up is considered very serious. It is the highest degree of seriousness in the Riksrevision’s criticisms, and is used in situations where the consequences for society or the citizens it adopts are very serious, for example. the risk to life or health. This just underlines the seriousness of this. The Committee notes that the Riksaudition takes a very serious view that neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Ministry of Defence have kept the deadline for the implementation of the permanent basic security of the shielding objects in the police and defence, as the Stortinget had as its authority, and as laid down in the regulation on object safety. The deadline after a possible one-year extension expired on 1 January 2015. In the case of Home Security, the Committee points out that the National Audit Office's investigation indicates that there is still a lack of operational capability in the Home Protection Agency, and that there is a lack of responsibility in certain material categories, personnel and competence. When there is a lack of understanding of the object protection directive, the Committee points out that the National Audit Office criticises the Directorate of Police and the Defence Department's lack of common understanding of the object protection directive and their This is in stark contrast to the Prime Minister's statement during the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee on 21 March 2017, where she said: ‘But I’m probably not able to see that this is a coordination issue. I don't see where the coordination problem is. And when it comes to police and defence cooperation, I actually think it's good, and it's solved. That part must be the only part of this matter I believe has a coordinating side in it." In the absence of a key object selection process, the Committee has noted the Riksaudition’s reference to missing contact between the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness — DSB — and the statesmen in the process of identifying civil key objects, and finds it unsatisfactory that the Ministry of Defence and Defence have little access to processes to ensure that the objects in question are pointed out. When it comes to missing information on the estimated costs, the Committee finds it critical that the Stortinget has not been informed of plans and costs for the establishment of basic safeguards for the protection of police subjects, and the Committee suggests that future budget estimates and appropriations for this purpose should be made. Under the heading ‘Inadequate and/or inadequate information’, the Committee notes that the Prime Minister has agreed to bring it to the attention of even some unprecise speakers. In its final notes, the Control and Constitutional Committee notes that after five years the Storting has still not been fulfilled. And on a general basis, the Committee would stress that the Riksrevision's report shows that there is still a great deal to be done before the Stortinget's decisions and intentions can be met. The points to which I have referred and quoted here are not the Workers' Party's own comments. It is also not the committee's plural comments. There are inconclusive comments from a Joint Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and in my view it would be natural to conclude that what is now being recommended by the Committee on Civil Liberties - the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party: ‘The government’s regrets the lack of follow-up of object protection with regard to the basic protection of protective features and the protection and protection of objects by the use of security forces from the police and the Defence of Home Affairs, including the lack of information to the Government on deferrals and costs.’ The fact that these matters have not been properly dealt with will be evident when a joint committee finally refers to its recommendations to the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Defence, where it is recommended that they: ‘Sustaining progress plan and funding, so that permanent basic protection of protective items in the police and defence is established in line with Storting’s assumptions. Implement the necessary temporary measures for displayable objects in the police and defence in accordance with the Security Act until permanent basic security is established. Ensures a common understanding of the object protection directive between departments. Clears and ensures that the police and Home Security have the necessary capacity, individually and collectively, to secure and protect objects using security forces.» The Committee proposed that the government should now follow the recommendation and that the budget for 2019 should be revised at the latest and that a holistic follow-up plan, including implementation timetable and expected costs, should be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1674	It has been a fascinating debate to follow, and what's interesting about the government party is that they don't want to agree to any criticism. They've put responsibility and guilt on everyone else. It's the review tone -- no, it wasn't them, it was the other, there were other conditions that struck. This is how it seems to be throughout, and it's unlikely to be weak, both human and in principle – an incredibly weak strategy. So I've probably noticed more than me that the left isn't in the hall at all. They haven't been in the hall all day. In the previous setting, they formulated very strong criticism – i.e. in 2017 – of the previous report. Then they said in their comments that ‘it is very serious and critical’, which is actually the criticism that goes furthest. Then we're all a few in that the situation hasn't gotten any less bad -- he's actually gotten worse since the first report. And there the left out of the case and out of the debate, in such a decisive case as this. I thought the representative of Kolberg had a good handle for it: that there is something power-structuring about it. In the same way, it is with the Christian People's Party. Now they go much further, they have exactly the same analysis as we do, but they do not choose to take the necessary consequence of the proposal – also because of power-structuring situations. There is a real number of people in this room who see the same thing, who see that the government hasn't done their job. I guess that's documented. They didn't give priority to the job they were supposed to do. I guess that's documented. And they have misinformed regularly about the Storting, and it's just as if they can't stop it either. Let me take some of the statements that have come. Erna Solberg said something that was very alarming. She said that it is obvious that we are in this situation because the temptations are too scarce. So that's why we're in the situation we're in right now -- not because the government has done something wrong, not because the government is at all guilty; it's because of the temptations that were set up in the past. Not only is it a crazy way to disclaim responsibility for the five years you have actually been in government. It is also hollow, when the Stortinget first learns that one has not managed to keep the deadlines in the law – by the end of 2014 at the latest – through the National Audit Office. In the meantime, the government has tried to keep this hidden from Storting, active. We also know that the government itself has not prioritised this. The police directorate has made recordings in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. None of the times the government has prioritised this. And then we have a prime minister standing here claiming that it was because the temptations were too scarce. We haven't heard anything, the government hasn't prioritised it, and they've misinformed the Storting about it. It's fascinating. To blame former governments, to blame the Storting, when you're in trouble – it seems to be the strategy. So this comes to the point that it was foreseen that this would not cost money. Let's take it seriously. Yes, it is true that in the odelstningsproposition in advance, as among other things. facilitates the object protection regulation, it is relativised with costs. That's absolutely right. But what is not to be said is that in the preparation of this regulation, a 2006 NOU entitled ‘When security is most important — protection of the country’s critical infrastructures and critical societal functions’, it explicitly states: ‘The committee has noted that the Working Party of the Ministry of Defence, which presented proposals for a regulation on object safety, had also assessed possible economic consequences. Although the proposed Regulation states that individual activities would cover their own costs as a result of impositions, it also provided for the possibility of applying for exemptions from the safety requirements or to receive government grants to cover the costs of overly burdensome object safety.» The government also knew that. It also knew the government party. There isn't one to say. Then, there have been many occasions – in budgetary dialogue, in police and defence reports – to know that there is a need for more means to get started. The fact that all of a sudden it's a surprise now – yes, but this shouldn't cost money – is really a fig leaf. That is an unlikely weak argument. I'll give them one thing: it's in that odelstation proposition. But it doesn't take responsibility. When you hear Prime Minister Solberg, you get the impression that it's not a goal of these things, it's actually because you're trying to orient yourself to another kind of threat picture. This has been about the plan all along – one actually does a little different things, and this regulation and the instructions and all that is too little dynamic. Well, the point is that we're still at the monitoring and planning stage. When it comes to defense, only 25 pst. of the defence's own objects of vision. There is no overview of the situation — no overview, because no views have been carried out yet. So one doesn't know. In the same way, it is with the police: it is still in the screening phase. And besides, the object protection regulation and instruction are dynamic -- there's a lot of game room there at any time to customize how to understand the situation you're in. It's a situation where there's actually luck that's made nothing wrong happen, because the government hasn't known. They have not had the opportunity to know what the situation was, because they have not followed the law and instructions. This is a situation they should perhaps reflect on, for the representative Harberg opens up to it: how have we got into a situation where as a country we are unable to implement as clear decisions and as clear leadership as the Stortinget saw, and that it goes for years? What is this? How is that possible? Harberg believes that the criticism that the opposition takes note of is about criticising the professionals. But what our research shows is that, fortunately, we don't have any ingenious professionals. It's because the government itself has not prioritised this. They have not seen the necessary resources; they have not been interested in doing so. On the occasions they've had, they've given priority to other things. I guess that's documented. That's why this isn't going to work until now. Only now does one start with the necessary funding. So to the representative, Leirstein, and his post – I was a little uncertain about whether I should get hold of it. But it reminds me of a book by philosopher Harry Frankfurt, called ‘On Bullshit’, where he defines ‘bullshit’ as a form of speech where the goal is to overestimate without regard to truth. A person only cares about the truth when he is busy hiding it. One doesn't care if what's being said is true or not. It's over-interpreting that's the only goal. Leirstein thinks that since it is the Storting that is the running power, why hasn't the Storting put money on the table? Well, the whole review shows that Storting didn't know what the situation was. We've been led behind the light. We have not known that there is a lack of funding – we have even been told that one is in the goal of object protection, and it is only with the second report from the Riksrevision that we get the first budget on the table. The National Auditor had to get this out of the government. It is only now – in 2018 – that we get the first numbers on the table about what this can cost. So that Leirstein manages to make it clear that it was the Stortinget that would allow money, while the Stortinget didn't know what it was going to cost or what it was going to cost, that's fascinating argument. One must be very much inside the world of Harry Frankfurt in order to have a good conscience for the situation that one is in, as Leirstein said one should have: that the government should have a good conscience for the work one has done. That a person has not done the job within a fixed time limit, that one has not given priority to the job at all, and that one has misinformed the Stortinget, so it should have a good conscience for that. There's Harry Frankfurt.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1714	This matter goes right into some very fundamental questions about our democratic governance and the responsibilities of our government. Therefore, it is also important that the debate engages more representatives than only those who are members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and the two relevant Scientific Committees. This concerns all of us in this Chamber. It's about any government that's sitting here, maybe the most important task, the defence of the country's critical functions. It is not least about some of our most important democratic principles, namely the relationship between big business and government, how the government is responsible for the country's elected assembly, about control and the follow-up to the decision of the Storting – that is, the fundamental trust between big business and government. Our parliamentary model, where the government is to be accountable to this House, which is elected by the people, is a pillar of our people's rule. But that pillar becomes only as far as a fiance and not a supporter without the principle that the government will provide the Storting with truthful information about the Biggest demand and needs to deal with matters. The whole relationship between accumulation and government depends on the disclosure requirement of Basic Law § 82. That is why this matter is deeply serious and should involve all the representatives of the assembly. The government has at several times misinformed the Government about the status of the security work, without the fault being corrected to the Storting before the Riksrevision started its work. The Ministry of Justice misinformed the Government of the budget proposal for 2016 that the buildings in the justice sector were secured in line with the law. That was wrong. Only two out of twelve buildings in the police were secured in line with regulations. The police directorate quickly contacted the department and announced that this was wrong, but the information never came from the department and government to the Stortinget, to the country's elected assembly. Six months after the police directorate informed the Ministry of Justice of the error, Minister of Justice Amundsen repeated the error in Stortinget in the spring of 2016. The majority had to get the Riksrevisions' first report to get the right information – that the buildings in the police and defence were so poorly secured, and that the instructions were not met. During last year's hearing, the Prime Minister explained the misreporting to the Stortinget in the budget and from the Minister of Justice in the spring of 2016 that the Police Directorate had said that they had been in charge of securing within the deadline. This is also documented errors. The police directorate clearly communicated that they were not on target, and that the Stortinget had been misinformed. This is very serious. It is a breach of the obligation to provide information. Something else is completely impossible to understand. And then there's also a relationship between collapse and government, and it's rocking at the Stortingens Control Institute. It is not only because we as representatives have to base our confidence on any government that the decisions taken here are followed up, and that the information and information we receive from the government is correct, but also because, as has been pointed out, this most conscious misinformation that stems from the relationship between collapse and government, is about the defence of critical functions in the country, perhaps the main task of the government, and, as has been pointed out, Erna Solbergs, the Prime Minister's, perhaps the most important commitment to the electorate in 2013. To date, the Prime Minister or relevant State Councils in this Chamber have refused to complain about any matter in the case, but instead chose to use words such as that it is recognised that information could have been misinterpreted. It is not a humble government, it is not a humble prime minister who meets the country's elected hall in such a serious matter. It's a big cross of thought. That is why the only correct consequence, for our parliamentary model, is that the Storting must then complain about the government's policy and behaviour in this matter, and that is exactly what it is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1733	I'm not going to spend the whole 15 minutes. There is a lot that has been said in this debate, which I do not see the need to repeat. But as a leader and member of the Justice Committee, I want to come up with some considerations from there. It is such that this debate is not just about barley, and it is not just about concrete. I would like to draw a comment from the majority in the Committee, which underlines that the Riksrevision report has also pointed to poor interaction between important actors. The majority suggest that better interaction between police, defence, state officials, county councils, municipalities, and voluntary organizations is a key to better preparedness. In addition, the majority say that in recent years society has become more vulnerable due to the switchover to electronic communications and satellite services, which have a strong impact on energy supply, oil and gas production, water supply, financial services, health and care sectors, transport and infrastructure, common functions and governance, etc., and that this creates major challenges in society’s efforts to establish good crisis management and the ability to meet digital attacks. The majority think these themes belong to the home of a new Total Preparedness Commission. For us in the Labour Party and the Judicial Committee, the theme of the Total Emergency Commission is well known. We're dealing with a representative proposal from the Central Party where a government asked to put down a total preparedness commission. The Labour Party supports that proposal, but it was down in Stortinget. The government party meant that one should wait until one had completed other reforms before one did. The ruling of the Riksrevisionen on the work of the government is unrelentingly precise: ‘Failure of basic security may lead to the disappearance of important and critical police community functions in the event of adverse events. This may have serious consequences for national crisis management and preparedness». That's what National Auditor Per-Kristian Foss said when the last report was made in spring. I am also concerned about the follow-up to the police reform. The Minister of Justice said as an intrusion into his speech in this discussion that there has been a historic growth in police personnel. But we are now going to go into a year – 2019 – when many of the largest police districts, but also some of the smaller ones, give strong warning of depopulation. Here in the Oslo police district, we may be talking about a downgrading of 130-150 positions. In the south-east, we're talking about 50. In Northern Ireland, there's a talk about 40, and I could've kept on listing up. Why do I mention this? That's because this is a very central part of the preparedness for terrorism and basic preparedness. The reason why I mention it in this debate is related to the former police director Humlegård said during the hearing on 27 August: ‘It is therefore the case that the police have plans for several hundred objects across the country. It's only in 25 pst. of these that we have planned for the prior assistance of the Defense, and in addition, as I said, the police under Section 2 of the Police Act are responsible for several thousand objects for which plans have not been made. So our capacity to ensure will depend on this. It will be the police districts in their own district that have to give priority to their resources. If there is a national threat picture, the Directorate of Police will play a role in coordinating the use of security forces.’ I mention this here, because there are too many of the government parties in this debate who want it to not be about this either. It does. I am concerned that the underfunding of police districts will also weaken preparedness for the next year. The Gjørv Commission was very clear that the most important preparedness was carried out by the ordinary police. The government will regret the lack of follow-up in this matter. I think the Prime Minister should do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1760	One of the biggest tasks is to create security — genuine security, but also a sense of security. A secure society also requires a solid rule of law and a police and a defence subject to democratic control. Operationally, we also need emergency situations that work in difficult situations and that are coordinated and interacting. That's exactly where our national audit has a key role. We should therefore be very pleased that we have a national audit that has on several occasions pointed out failure in the work on object protection and our national security. Because without these reports, we didn't know it wasn't good enough in the nation of Norway. So we didn't know that we had serious shortcomings, and we didn't know that it was so serious that it could even weaken people's lives and health. It was a feeling of insecurity that spread when the National Auditor concluded that basic social institutions were not well enough secured. There was considerable uncertainty because this also affected people's lives and health. There was a lack of money, a lack of plans, and temptations were not kept. The size was also not sufficiently informed about the state to follow up the deficiencies and not to budget adequately. I am pleased that the trade unions, both in the field of justice and defence, have gone quite far in admitting failure. In particular: The draft budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security acknowledges the findings and weaknesses of the National Audit Office and points out what will be done about it. We also hear here a Minister of Justice and a Minister of Defence who takes some self-criticism on things that could have been better, but we do not hear sufficient concessions from the Prime Minister today. The word self-criticism is used, but there are no complaints. On the background to which my party leader Lightbakken has explained, SV is still behind his mistrust proposal. Mistylit is to be used very rarely, but we believe that it is precisely in situations where the government does not follow up well enough what the Storting has said, that distrust should be used. We feel that the government is failing in this matter, but the undersigned actually find it even worse to be among the big business representatives of the government parties. Although it is the government and the Prime Minister who have the overall responsibility, it is also important that this be followed up from the Storting. In fact, the Riksrevision is the Supervisory Body of the Storting and reports to the Storting through audit, control and guidance. Therefore, it is with quite great concern and concerns that I have read the representatives from the Right Party and the Advance Party's device at the point of view of the matter, because with such convincing evidence, these depositors perform to place themselves in the defence position in the vote, and not to participate in key remarks that deal with the completely obvious things that the Riksrevision points out. The representatives accept as part of the main findings of a Joint Committee of the National Audit Office, but there is little will to trace self-criticism, at least in the reading of the special remarks. I understand that the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party will not be involved in concrete comments that directly criticize the Prime Minister, but the pattern being formed is that the Right and the representatives of the Progress Party do not support a number of comments that describe the problem, with reference to the Riksrevision report. Listen, for example. in this note: ‘The majority indicate that better interaction between police, defence, state officials, county councils, municipalities and non-governmental organisations is a key key to better preparedness.’ Who is it that can perform to say that they disagree with this? It's so obvious. But this comment therefore chooses the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party not to be present – nor does it refer to the findings of the Riksrevision, which have even been admitted in part by the Minister of Defence in the Chamber today, which says: The effort is still «a long way from what the Great Government has foreseen». That's what the comment says. Nor are the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party included in the vote. There is also a comment in the position that the national auditor still describes the situation as very serious, which means that the consequences for society or the citizens concerned are very serious. This wording is also not included in the Committee on the Right and the representatives of the Progress Party. When, in addition to this, we hear the representative Leirstein say that he has a good conscience for everything that has been delivered, and in addition totally trace the debate by asking what was done about this twelve years ago, and further the representative Elvenes, who lists up what the Defense does, instead of going into the matter itself, starts a pattern and an image to come forward. Based on the picture drawn both from the setting and from the reading of the special remarks in the opinion, it seems to be a strong reluctance of the representatives of the government parties to take self-criticism. In the reading of the statement, we get the experience that the Riksrevision findings are perceived as unpleasant. So they're not going to be able to leave a feeling that they think it's important that the National Auditor has pointed out what's being pointed out, they're not going to be able to give up on the idea that they're really worried, and they're definitely not going to be able to give up on the idea that they're going to do this constructively to make it better. The impression cannot be given by the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party in this matter. In fact, the National Auditor reports to Stortinget. It is essential that political Norway stands together on how to protect ourselves. It is therefore alarming that the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party in the vote and here in the Chamber stand on the outside and do not agree with the majority of the Committee on Substantial Observations and Recommendations in the case. This lack of willingness of the government parties to express recognition of the Riksrevision's findings, and the lack of willingness to recognise what the Riksrevision points to, actually presents us with an even greater problem, because it is crucial that the Storting – and all parties – have confidence in the Riksrevision's method, objectivity and integrity, even those who are criticized. Even those who are criticized must have confidence in the Riksrevisions method, objectivity and integrity. Of course, you can be critical of different findings, but it is absolutely essential that the majority of the population, even those who are criticized, recognize the Riksrevision's method, integrity and objectivity. If we do not have a major problem here in the country, and we will have politicised debates or reflections on the Riksrevision's findings on the basis of various political positions. It's very serious, and it helps to undermine the National Audit Office as an institution and as the Supervisory Board of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1782	Security against terrorism and people's security of water supply and life-critical flows are very serious issues. When the government fails to ensure that residents in Norway, people in Norway, have this security, it is precisely what the Riksrevision points out — that it is very serious. That is why there is also an important point we have heard from representatives from the Right and the Progress Party are trying to skip. You say yes, it's serious. No, it's not serious, it's very serious. When the National Audit Office says this, it means that ‘very serious’ is used in situations where the consequences for society or the citizens concerned are very serious for example. life or health. In meeting this fact, the strategy of Prime Minister Erna Solberg at the hearing of the Control Committee was to appear humble enough to hold his own position – to appear humble enough. It was written about it in the media afterwards that perhaps Erna Solberg was just humble enough to hold his own position. But that is not what this matter is primarily about. It is about – as the Riksrevision points out – consequences that can have serious consequences for the lives or health of citizens. It is also becoming incredibly paradoxical that Justice Minister Tor Mikkel Wara is trying to derive the seriousness here with a fun and a quote from the Olsen gang, just as it is serious that Per-Willy Amundsen and Sylvi Listhaug tried to learn the seriousness before the hearing with something that should be a fun thing – a selfie. We who elected the people here on the Storting – no matter what party, no matter what individual things we should be interested in – must at least be able to take seriously the questions about people's security. It is interesting to try to draw attention to such an important issue – and instead raised itself in the autumn over two bottles of wine. It says something about that we deserve a much more honest debate. What we have chosen to ensure is that people can be sure that the decisions that come out of the Norwegian National Assembly are made on a proper and honest basis. It is therefore quite clear that the position of the Committee of Inquiry today is quite correct. It is very critical and very serious that the government and Prime Minister Erna Solberg have done. And it's interesting that today we're presented that maybe it got the wrong experience, the information that was presented. Once again, there is actually a derailment of what we experience here at Stortinget. If you were to talk about experience, it would be important to think about those who have actually experienced terror in Norway or out. It's the curtain and describes the seriousness of the situation. That is why it is clear that people in our country deserve better governance than what we are witnessing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1797	I don't want to spend my time commenting on the constitutional consequences for the government in this case, it's the other thing that's been very clear. But the most serious thing is that you sub-communicate what's the reality of the matter to most people, and it's about security and security. It's something people have in their backs every day. And when there's a debate going on in the Storting where you say you have everything under control, when the Riksrevision is so crushing in its criticism, it's itself serious. I agree that security regarding what's going on in readiness, of course, is more than just object protection, but it's object protection that's the matter here. Object protection for the standing departments that we have in Norway, not least for mobilization departments such as Home Protection, is the whole basis for the task to be solved, no matter how you turn it around and turn it around, and it's been all year long. The most eye-catching thing is when the prime minister and two state councils are talking about us in a screening phase where we're going to make complete plans, we're going to have security-cleared contractors, and we're going to use a lot of concrete. That this should then be the status of this matter at the present time is alarming to me. When you look at Home Protection – and I've reacted to it in other contexts too, not just in this case – and say that they only have to be dimensioned to secure military objects, it's really a gust of the past, because that's not the case. I also know that it's not like that, in fact, but that's what's described here, and I think it's about a resource question, which I'll come back a little bit later. The Prime Minister says – and I agree with him completely – that we must have a dynamic object protection that is adapted to a changed threat picture, both in peace, in crisis and in war. That is what we want – together with other instruments. That's why what's been dimensional for Homeland Protection, with military objects, is a trail of blindness, which is absolutely crucial for what that structure looks like. So there's going to be a misunderstanding between the task being given and the resources being used. When the answer is that money is spent on the fighter aircraft base on Ørland, or that you build a new emergency centre, and that you do reforms not because it is fun, but because it is necessary, and use it as arguments in a case like this, I also get a little thoughtful. I really think that it's essentially about, especially on the resource side, that it's almost comparable to the fear of legislating response time for ambulances, because it means something for resources, it means something for preparedness, and it means something for graspability. Because no one is talking about tangible forces in the police and defense, and tangible forces are not when we move HV teams from Oslo up to Finnmark because there are too few people in Finnmark to solve those missions. So they're not tangible. I think, when this survey is completed after this round in Stortinget, you'll most likely experience a huge gap between the tangible resources that are needed to make people feel safe, and tasks that can't just be solved with concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1814	A lot is said in the debate, and we're starting to get a picture of how things stand. Nevertheless, there is something I think it says, and that may point to. First of all, I would like to tell Mr. Hagen, an experienced politician, that I understand that he wants to turn the debate over to another topic and far back in time. But even though I'm a quite new politician, I would like to point out that today's report is actually the Riksrevisions report we're discussing. I think it would have helped if we had stuck to that time frame and what the report points out, in the debate. We need to be sure, as a College of the Stortinget, that the reports coming from the Riksrevision are based on the Stortingen decision, and then it doesn't seem to point out that we've changed the definition when it comes to Home Affairs. I'm not sure when the former Home Secretary and trustee of the apparatus have a completely different view of this than the sitting lead. It seems that we've had a difficult word shift – where those who are on their way out come with an understanding, and those who are going up and down come with something similar to a made-up image. Today, a book was presented that looks at the impact of police reform here on the country. The conclusion of the book, Police Reforms: Ideals, Realities, Retorics and Practices, by Vanja Lundgren Sørli and Paul Larsson, is: ‘The reform removes the last remainder of local democracy’s influence on the police and provides less scope for local priorities and adaptations.’ Furthermore, it says: ‘The most comprehensive and far-reaching feature of the NP reform, however, is that it gives a new meaning to the NP model, and that it does so without a thorough debate on the implications for the role of the police in society and the fundamental values on which our society is built.’ As I said in my first post, this government is reforming away from people. But it never gets reformed away from the tasks to be done. She is also not allowed to reform away from the country's geography. Someone has to set up when the crisis is there. The impact of the reforms is now seen – longer response time, less proximity to the population and poorer prevention. The National Audit Office's report has, in two stages, laid the basis for criticism of the government's work on object protection. I can promise that the Center Party will follow up the work further, and I hope this is an area that the Riksrevision will keep an eye on and give a new assessment of whether or not this is a better situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1835	There is no doubt that it is a serious matter we are debating today. It has been claimed by several speakers that we, who are the figures for the government parties, do not take this seriously, and that we are trying to talk ourselves out of the reality of the matter. I think that's a funny statement. Even I just started my post by saying that the Riksrevision has come with sharp criticism of the follow-up of object protection. This is a criticism that we are going to take very seriously. No one disagrees. We're going to take this seriously. That is why I am very pleased that we have a Prime Minister and a government that is so clearly taking this work seriously. It is quite natural in this debate, too, that we are getting what has been done, since that is what we are calling for, both in the report and from the opposition. That's why we've figured out what we've done. It is not said that you should just stand and brag. That's not what this is about. It is factual information to say what has been done, rather than the scare image that some in the opposition are trying to create by pretending that something has not been done. The report from the National Audit Office takes up the status at the end of 2017. So it was a year ago. So yes, we're going to discuss the Riksaudition's report today, but things have also happened while the Riksaudition has examined, and things have also happened after this report was concluded. It is important to come forward, because, as many have said here today, of course, is the most important task for us as elected representatives, as a magnificence and as a government to ensure security and security for the inhabitants. Then it also makes sense that we use this debate to find out what this government has done and what it delivers. So I have recorded in the debate that it is the SV that has gone the highest on the field today. I registered that the head of the SV and the spokesperson from the SV talked about that they might consider drawing the motion of censure if the Prime Minister had been more humble. Well, now SV has been talking about mistrust at least since August, before the committee started with the consultation and before the committee started with the real discussion of the matter. Then it becomes a little bit like yelling at the wolf. Then I don't think you have to be very surprised that not all of us take everything that comes from that edge seriously. You try to give the impression that we're talking away from the reality of the matter, while that's the opposite we're doing – we're just talking about the reality of the matter here today. I think it is very good that we have both a Minister of Defense and a Minister of Justice today who has talked about what you have done, what you deliver, and what you should do in the future. I think it's good that we have a prime minister who heads a government that is quite clear on how to get the object protection in place now, in line with the decisions taken in Stortinget, and the laws and regulations that apply. So this takes absolutely more time than intended. We got a government change in 2013. Two months after the last government left, much of this would have been delivered. You did not get to a covered table, and a little humility the opposition could have had in this case today because you had not done what you should have delivered on. So rather than just shooting at today's government, there could also be some humility on the part of the opposition. Because there's a back carpet here. I registered that the head of the Workers' Party and others did not want to talk about the back carpet. But it is true that when this government took over in 2013 and was to deliver in a few months, it was not possible thanks to the previous government, which had not prepared the reason. We also have to bring that with us. We must certainly take the greatest seriousness into account the report that has come from the Riksrevision. There is no one here who disagrees that the Riksrevision will deliver what the Riksrevision is doing, and we are going to deal with these reports with the greatest seriousness, and so have we. For this reason it will also be seen in the setting that the Right and Advance Party have participated in a number of comments that are also critical of how the follow-up has been. Today, we have heard from the Prime Minister again very clearly that the criticism is being taken seriously, and that these are things you would like to do in other ways, for example. having had a better and broader information to the Stortinge on the way around about the situation and how much this would cost. Cost becomes an important keyword. This costs a lot of money. This government, with good cooperation with the Christian People's Party, has also provided many, many billions of dollars for object protection, which, for a time, was informed by the previous government that it would not cost anything. You've been granted about seven billion. kr to the justice sector and around 10 billion. kr to the defence sector. These are large amounts and important amounts, and it's the Storting that is granting authority. We fully agree on that. It has also been pointed out by a unanimous committee, although it is a matter of course. But it has not streamed up with a number of opposition proposals in recent years to further strengthen object protection beyond what has been the budgetary agreement between government and the supporting parties. So the representative from SV told me that they did not know because the government had not informed the Stortinget. Well, in that case, you have the last year, because that's the last year we've had this report. So then it would have been free for SV and other parties to make proposals about billions of investments in the state budget that we dealt with on Monday at the latest, if it was thought that there were still very many billions missing. But that's not what the opposition did. The level of object protection has been agreed in recent years, and this government is delivering, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1858	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, then asked for a line. At this stage of the debate, the President will open up one line of reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1863	I did not take a line when the representative had his opening post where he also claimed the same thing. But now I just couldn't hold on. When Stortinget does not know that one has not come to terms with the object protection because one has not been informed about it, because the government has informed about the opposite, and when one has not been able to figure out what action and what it is going to cost to come to terms with the object protection, can the representative Leirstein explain to me how the Stortinget should have given it money?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1868	In August, the representative of Knag County spoke about mistrust of the government. In August! Between August and today we have, among other things, Treated a government budget. So at least the representative of Knag County does. If he was very concerned that there were even more billions missing for the object protection, one could have made the proposals from SV this Monday, when the state budget was dealt with in Stortinget. At least you can't blame the government in the last few months based on what you've known or not known.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1873	Let's go back to the list of speakers. The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1881	This debate asks for the last replication: a try to find different types of fig leaves to cover the responsibilities that you have actually had. It's not a nice sight. The fact of the matter is that one of them has come up with what the government has done. We've been thoroughly demonstrated, we've examined what they've done, we've been based on the report from the Riks revision, and then we've done further research. It turns out they haven't done enough. That's the truth. They didn't prioritize it either. That's the truth. They have also misinformed the Storting. That's the truth. Then we have a Prime Minister who held the shortest main post of all, who has been passive in the debate – in such a serious matter – and who has given no cause, as we demanded. We therefore firmly believe that we will vote for the distrust of this government – unless the Storting is a big deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1894	I am not a member of the Control and Constitutional Committee, nor a member of the Trade Union Committee, the Justice Committee and the Foreign and Defence Committee, but I am a member of the Newsprint. I follow up on what's going on in the undergrowth out there, through social media, of course, and I'm a lot in contact with ordinary people. I'll try to talk so ordinary people understand it. It is not that easy in this case. This is about something that is important to people, I think: why distrust proposals? Why did a sitting government roll over, as most people call it? Most people don't like distrust in cabins and torment. Neither does SV. That has been said by several speakers from SV today. It shall not be used in time and out of time. In fact, it is very important in all political considerations, that people should follow the different curvatures of these politicians. So why right now? There have been explained many times from this pulpit today, and there are two main reasons: Point 1: There are very serious shortcomings in the follow-up by the government after the terrorist action on 22 July 2011. After the disaster had gotten a little away, we all said to each other: Never again! Never again! And that's the big question: would that happen again, and have we done enough that it won't happen again? That's what this whole thing is about. So it turns out, through the criticism of the National Audit Office, through the hearing of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and finally through the debate here in the Chamber today, that no action has been taken to prevent the recurrence of July 22. Probably it couldn't happen the same way, but in other ways of terror, against other goals, against public objects, that is. installations, public buildings and assemblies, military and civil. So, over seven years after the terrorist attack on Utøya and against the government quarter, this could easily have happened again. That's the serious point. Of course, I'm the first to admit that no government can guarantee itself against the most sophisticated estimates, but we have to do what we can do. What's now coming out is that it hasn't been done. Point 2: The Storing's error information – it's also very serious. That is perhaps the easiest thing to do with parliamentary consequences. So much misinformation has been revealed that the majority in this Chamber, in the innermost part, believe that the Prime Minister should take responsibility and go. Had not the Christian People's Party been in this famous political-structural situation described, that is – in pure, popular words – if not the Christian People's Party was on its way into government, the Christian People's Party must have taken the consequences of its harsh criticism and voted for distrust. The Prime Minister must have left — that is the simple expression. I want to say to those of the most people who have managed to follow this long mission from the hall today -- it's probably not that many, I'll assume, even with the NRK's slow TV and all the successes that have been there -- that I don't think it's the mistrust proposal that is not understood this time by the most people. Now I think it's the political game that's going on in some way, all the political assessments that's going on right now, including. in the assessments of the position of the Christian People's Party, and this is because of these so-called political-structural conditions, which means that there are some who knock on the government door and who are going in there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1915	I started my main post that the committee has done a thorough job on this matter, and it does. It is also reflected in the contributions made by the members of the Committee, and it is good, and it is important that it has been properly followed up. It also assures me that those who are closest to this matter, those who will follow it up, will also read the entire Committee's position. I have to say that I recommend the representative Petter Eide from SV to read the setting again, because it seemed that the government parties were not at all in criticism of what was pointed out in the report. Then they have to reread, or they have to listen to the others from the opposition who have pointed out that there is a unanimous committee behind many of the comments. There is a lot that has been pointed out by an overall committee, and I would like to make it clear that this underlines the seriousness of the matter, including for us. It's important. Then I record that the Central Party's mention of the need for dimensioning in the Defense, and in particular the Home Guard, both imposes on the Defense a responsibility they don't have, where they included all civil objects, and will require a dimensioning far beyond what the Center Party itself does. That's what we're going to have to do in another debate. Then I have to go back a little bit to Knag County and his posts, there's a lot one could have commented on. First of all, I record that – probably as a new principle – it is now that Knag County must have been notified by the government before he makes proposals in Stortinget. I have not experienced it this way – so far – so I tipped out that he could manage to make the proposal for both object protection and other without being notified by the government. And as I said, it's been known both in budget proposals and not least in the last year, so it gets a little weird. Then I react that Knag County repeatedly refers to the government as some kind of misinformation factory. I actually think it's a little disrespectful. So it's a government with government councils that really try to do the job, and that also – and it says respect for it – has recognised that the information could be in a different way. I think that's good, and it says something about them taking this seriously. We have in no way said that everything is okay, to which someone referred. No, there's a lot left over here, and it's going to be done. There is no doubt that both the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister take this seriously. They've underlined it, and it's not like the number of minutes on the platform determines whether or not a person takes it seriously. You might notice that. Then I have to say at the end: it must – in the course of which we are now going to – be allowed to point out what is now happening, without it being taken as a discharge. The important thing now is to put in place the fuse to be made, the fuse that has been planned. And pointing out that, fortunately, many concrete things are happening, now there are concrete plans that are followed up, resources are allocated to it, are natural – and should be natural – also in such a debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1934	As we approach the end of the debate on a very serious matter, there is reason to recall that. There is reason to thank the Riksaudition, who has done a thorough job of following up a previous thorough work, which gives us important information that is necessary to play our role in the relationship between government and greatness. And so there are important areas for the whole of social security we're talking about, not just some building associated police and defense. So it's true, as someone's been asking, that this isn't total social security. No, that's right. But that's the report we're dealing with now, and that's why we're dealing with that report, which is important for large parts of social security. Then I must allow myself to say that I react to the fact that some from two of the government parties have chosen to call what the opposition has said, and what the majority position implies, a political game. I have to admit that I came to think of an expression from home, what we say is that ‘the thief believes that all steals’, because after this report was presented, there have been a lot of games – from the government and from the government parties. We have all argued that the start of the process was that the State Council was in Dagsnytt eighteen and gave direct misinformation about what the national audit report was. The same was followed up by the Prime Minister in political debate in Arendal. A new word has appeared today: an error has occurred. And in the 2016 state budget, there was a direct error, so the Prime Minister said that it could be misinterpreted. No, it couldn't be interpreted. It was clear, and it was wrong. It was the same during the hearing, when the Prime Minister was taken directly into account. Then was the term that was used in her speech, ‘uprising’ — upresis had she been then, upresis of direct errors. When the Prime Minister says, and admits, that there has been a lack of comprehensive, collusive information, the main point is that we have not got the right information. That's the main point, and that's what we're saying. So there's been a lot of talk about it that doesn't apply. Both the defence budget and the justice budget as a whole are being used. Yes, it is dynamic which objects are to be secured, no one disagrees with it, but it cannot serve as an excuse that the objects that are there and that are to be secured are not safe. It actually also confirmed the NSM at the hearing, that it's not that the objects that should have been secured are not, and that there's going to be criticism of, are going to be lost with new security laws. On the contrary, there may be several objects. So there's no excuse for not doing the job. One of the examples that was referred to in the non-open part of the report is that it's cybersecurity, data lines, and the kind of thing that there's criticism that's not okay. Nor is anything new coming in the future, it should be part of the object protection today. There has also been another feature of government in this whole process, not just in the debate today: that one should owe others. At one point, an exercise arose that was about the previous government having the blame – after this government had been sitting for five years. I think it was quite special when the representative Gruvan in his proper way tried to invite the Prime Minister to make some concessions, and asked: What could the government have done differently in 2015 and 2016? Then the Prime Minister replied to what the previous government should have done differently in 2011 and 2012. This is quite typical of the discharge. This is an example of the fact that there has been a lot of media management and little implementation on the part of the government. Then there has been a discussion related to ready-to-use HV districts. There it was suggested by the representative Harberg that we have disputed the actual observation and information from the Defence. That's wrong. My question at the hearing was very precise. It was: Has the number of HV areas ready-to-cancelled increased or decreased from 2014 to 2017? And when I asked the question that way, and I repeated it because I was surprised at the answer, HV said that it has definitely gone up. But all of us who have read the secret documents know that it's not true. The National Audit Office has compared the numbers after talking to the Defense Department in 2014 and 2017, so they're comparable numbers. We got that clarified in the closed hearing, and we're allowed to say that, because the National Auditor was asked about it, and he could confirm that the numbers were correct. It's on page 115, and it's not a fig leaf, it's a cord they're hiding behind, the representatives who claim it's not right. But behind the wire is the truth, which shows that the number has fallen, and it also shows that the proportion is frighteningly low. But it goes into the sequence of attempts to dedramatize. Unlike the then Prime Minister Stoltenberg, when dealing with the issues that in many ways are the beginning of the process we are now evaluating, sorry, the Prime Minister does not. On the contrary, when she is asked for a response to the proposal that is likely to be adopted here today, which says that it is highly critical and very serious – the proposal from the Count and the Christian People's Party – we also get no response to, reaction to or follow up on it. It is shown that a person takes the Riksrevision report seriously. It confirms that the government does not take the matter seriously. Fortunately, it is rare for us to deal with mistrust proposals in the main hall, for it to have distrusted a government and a head of government has a far, far higher threshold than being politically in disagreement with the government. In this case, the basis is a very serious report from the Riksrevision, as in particular. demonstrates that the situation was painted last year, but which not least also underlines that not only has the Stortinget been given insufficient information, but partly incorrect information – not least after the reply I had with the Prime Minister here in the hall instead, where she clearly perceives that the information obligation is not broken, even if there is a concrete error in a government budget, which the Council of State is made aware of is wrong, but which does not choose to correct the misinformation that Stortinget has received, and that such misinformation can be left until the following year. For us, it is very much in our interest to promote a motion of censure. When one does, one wonders on the balance of it, but I have to say that after hearing today's debate, it is at the end of the debate a strengthened basis for the distrust, because of the demeanor shown here by the members of the government and the members of the government parties, but not least because the Prime Minister obviously does not take Section 82 of the Constitution seriously. Should the motion of censure be rejected, the Labour Party will vote in a subsidiary way for the strong criticism of the representative, Mr Gruvan, as an alternative – as said if the motion of censure were not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1962	I take the floor, among other things. in the extension of the representative Nävra's posts, where the Christian People's Party was almost accused that we have concluded and argued as a result of our investigation of today's government. If the representative Nävra and Stortinget have otherwise followed our argument since the Riksrevision report was presented in June, they will see that we have had a very consistent, coherent argument, where we have used terms such as ‘mutilated image’, ‘very serious’ and that the government has not done the job requested by the Stortinget. We have a story in this case that means that I will take a strong distance from the fact that we have adapted a position or a conclusion based on the situation that was suggested by the representative Nävra. Nor have we changed the argument since 2 November. I think everyone will be able to see that, based on what has been said both before and after. We found it necessary to further intensify the criticism in relation to the previous time. That is why we have also concluded with ‘strongly critical’ and ‘very serious’. And now that we have concluded, we have done so because we believe the matter deserves that kind of conclusion based on the nature of the matter, and there is a unanimous big group behind it. Otherwise, I register that we have had a Prime Minister at the Stockholm pulpit today who has taken self-criticism, has admitted that the government should have handled the matter differently, and has done so on behalf of the government. I also feel that what has been said by the Prime Minister, the citizen, that one has reason to believe that one will give priority to the security of society and the security of its citizens at a higher rate and with greater force than we have seen up to now. This, together with a plan to be delivered in the context of the revised budget, makes me feel that one here acknowledges the facts. That's why I want to repeat what I said in my main post, that I have confidence that the work will now be given a far higher priority in the time to come, and that things that are not now in order will be put in order according to the plan that the Storting will deal with in the context of revision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1973	I redrawed after the speeches by the representatives of Leirstein and Harberg, in particular because the representative Harberg repeated after the replacement of the lines with the representative Leirstein instead that the opposition could only have made budget proposals that would have met the object protection obligations in a better way. When I get involved in it, it is because it reveals very clearly that the representatives of the government parties have either not understood, or – most likely and really more seriously – do not recognise what is the basic problem here. It's that if you're going to come up with a proposal to fix a problem, you have to know about it. Once the government parties have repeatedly told Storting that this is a good time, you remove the basis for that to happen. I think it is serious, especially when it is repeated by the representative Harberg at the last turn of this debate, and I think it underlines the basis of the criticism that the government parties have received for their actions in this debate. That is why it is necessary to stress, I think, that when there have not been large additional appropriations in precisely these fields in the budgets of the opposition parties, it is not because someone has ‘experienced’ the situation, but because someone has misinformed the situation. That's what the government has done, that's the government's responsibility, and that's why we're in this situation now. Finally, I would like to inform the SV Group that if the motion of censure we are in favour of is falling, we will also vote in favour of the proposal of strong criticism, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1982	First, I would like to thank you for a good debate – long, good and thorough – and then I would like to take just three points where I think it is a little important to be thorough. The first one concerns Homeland. For us, it has been important to be clear on how we measure operational capability in Home Affairs. Through the two reports and hearings, we have discovered that there have been weaknesses and deficiencies in the Home Security. We've also been open that that's right. If we read the records, we also record that the former head of Homeland Protection and the current head of Homeland Protection say the same thing: You have enough strength to cover the objects when you're going, not everything at the same time, and the state of war will make it necessary to prioritize the tasks. These are quite similar statements from the former and the new head of Homeland Protection – the picture is similar. We've spent a lot of energy building the Home Office. We have used a lot of resources to repair equipment and purchase new equipment. We've used resources to train and practice more. We started with HV 16 and HV 17, and now we're raising the entire Home Protection system, so that all areas have to practice the same – just because they have an important role to play in object protection. So to another thing, which has also been repeated. It is that the defense does not have an overview of the insurance status. It is important in the first national audit report, it is also important in the next national audit report, but we reported in the consultation in the autumn that we had that status from August. And that's an important point that there's progress, there's happening things -- the defense reported to us in August that now they had the overall status -- so that not the impression that's been created from this pulpit several times, sits down, because that's not true. It is not that the defense now has no status. We have, and we were open about that in the last hearing. So it has to be part of the picture. Then I just want to finish with what I said earlier: yes, this is a big and complex case involving many departments and many agencies. Yes, we had earned some information in a completely different way in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e1995	There are a lot of posts that could have been the basis for comments, clarifications and new discussions, but I think we are at the end of a matter that Stortinget has spent a lot of time clarifying, so I'm not going to go into all the parts that I think might have been considered something different than the representatives on the platform have done. I think I'll leave it as disunity points between us, but I want to comment on a couple of relationships. Firstly, I want to stress that the government is taking object security seriously. We've been doing that all along. But we also see that at some point we did not have a good enough overview of how far we had come. That's also why we said that the first national audit report gave us an experience that we had come shorter than we should and the government wanted. That's why they also took hold of it at that point. Therefore, it is important to say that we have also given clear information in the past that we had not come far enough, and that we should come further. When we then say that one of the reasons we haven't come any further is that this is more costly, more extensive and takes longer, and that we didn't have a situation when we got into the government, where the mapping and understanding of other things was clear enough, then it's not an excuse or saying that it's someone else's responsibility. It's an indication of how complex this is, and that what we see today is different from what we saw when the law and regulation were passed with the premises that were. I don't think everything is just about ignoring information or not having a good enough overview at the time it was adopted. I also believe that our requirements for object protection have increased, the requirements for what we say you should protect yourself from, because the threat picture around us is changing. It's going on for all of the hedged items we have, that we're evaluating it against other types of operations patterns and maybe other types of attacks than what's been planned at an earlier date. So I want to comment on two important questions. One is the report to the Storting on the status of basic insurance. There I said in a line change that there was a basis for this to be error experienced. I would like to stress that it is because I believe that the basis for this is that we gave a false impression, which is what the report says, and what I also said in the open hearing, that there was a false impression of the situation. The explanation of the wrong impression is that the compensation measures that had been taken were then calculated. They were obviously not in line with the law, but they were given a false impression that they were in line with the law, when it was guaranteed, but not with compensation measures, which are not there. I would like to stress that in the questions that came after, and the answers that I have given earlier, it is more clearly reserved – also in the question to which it was referred in the change of line. In fact, there is this reservation that the compensatory measures are included, and then actual assessments of the situation in subsequent proposals and notifications have been corrected. The second thing I want to mention is what was taken up by the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, was that I owed the previous government when I answered the representative, Gruvan, what we could do better. No, I described what we could have done earlier, and then I not only said what the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, refers to, I said we could have done that too. The previous government could build a better organisation, but we could also do it earlier than in 2016. But we weren't ready to do that, because we didn't have that understanding of the situation at that time. To point out that this has a history, is not to blame for others, it's to point out why we can now say that this is more complicated, that it's more demanding, and that it costs more money. We have to realize that this takes a lot longer than the ambition you had when you set the instructions. I will dry to claim, precisely because we have described this, that it would not happen more quickly. It might have been some years we could have taken in, but it would still be far beyond the time of what was the prescription piece, as we see the picture today. Many of the projects we are now working on are integrated projects. This means that they are not independent in the state budget as earmarked object protection. For example, the entire emergency centre is a large project in which the object protection is built. Several of the parts of the defense are also. It's huge pieces, and we have to take seriously the defect we have on who can build and who can project. We need people who have been cleared up for security to do that work. If we can't put a fundamental uncertainty into what's going to be an even safer world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2010	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2022	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2031	During the debate, Mr Groevan has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2047	The vote will take place on a roll call. Those who vote in favour of the Committee's position shall reply yes. Those who vote against answer no. The President will ask for peace in the hall under the tug-of-the-rope. The name ring will start with Representative No. 4 from Hordaland County.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2074	No one was away. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size believes it is highly critical and very serious that the government has not followed up well enough the work on object protection with regard to the basic protection of protective features and the protection of objects by the use of security forces from the police and the Defence of the Home Office, as well as that there has been a lack of information to the Stortinget about delays and costs.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2120	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of lines of up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2131	The big message we are handling today is a document that is a transparent road map, and the document is also easy and easy to find out. The attitude is unanimous, but I also want to explain the majority comments, and then I expect the parties that have other comments to explain them. The Committee has examined the notification. St. 17 for 2017-2018, Partner countries in development policy, which answer several questions regarding Norwegian aid policy, including those addressed by the Request Decision 69 and by the Request Decision 72. The Committee would point out that the partner country concept, which forms the basis of the current notification of aggregates, was set out in the Notice. St. 24 for 2016-2017, Joint responsibility for the common future, referred to as the Development Communication, but the concept is further developed in the present Communication under consideration by the Committee. The partner country concept has been developed within the framework of the 2030 agenda and the 17 sustainability goals that the world has gathered around during the UN Summit back in 2015. The overall ambition of sustainability goals is that by 2030 all the countries of the world should have eradicated extreme poverty, secured inclusive development and promoted prosperity, peace and justice. The Committee has also stressed in its work that sustainability objectives cover all countries and all parts of society. Norwegian efforts for international assistance have increased sharply in recent decades, and the aid budget has increased steadily, with increasing appropriations and a political desire to lead in international development cooperation. The Committee also sees that the government has concentrated the Norwegian aid exposure on fewer countries, sectors and partners, in order to ensure that Norwegian efforts deliver actual, sustainable and measurable results. The number of beneficiary countries for Norwegian aid has been higher than 100 individual countries since 1994, but this has been reduced since 2014 and in 2017 the figure was 84 countries. The Committee points out that the leading role of Norway in other actions, such as the Climate and Forest Initiative, has also influenced the direction and mechanism of Norwegian aid. Sub-Saharan Africa has been an important region of Norwegian aid and will remain so in the years to come. Furthermore, we have seen in the Committee in our work that there are different criteria and classifications. Once introduced, to achieve concentration of Norwegian aid in the past, the number of countries receiving Norwegian aid has been relatively constant since the mid-1980s. The introduction of the partner country concept is seen as a good and possible opportunity to review which countries Norway should concentrate resources on in order to get the most out of the assistance. The introduction of the concept will not necessarily lead to the phase-out of assistance to other countries, but will mean that the government will develop wider and deeper cooperation with partner countries over time. There are some criteria on which the Committee has taken note when selecting partner countries. It is about reciprocity – that partnerships should be based on a mutual desire for cooperation for development within a common understanding of development objectives and priorities. It is also a joint responsibility which is the criterion for the 2030 agenda with the 17 sustainability goals and The Addis Ababa Action Agenda, which is the global consensus on how to finance the work to achieve precisely the sustainability objectives, and where it is established that each country has the primary responsibility for its own development and to mobilise national resources to achieve its objectives. Dialogue on the coherence of different policy areas, in particular with regard to human rights, equality, climate and the environment and anti-corruption considerations, has also been one of the key issues under consideration in this work, as well as development policy instruments in partner countries managed in a comprehensive perspective, a clearer arrangement of assistance to partner countries and with the aim of ensuring that partner countries have access over time to the breadth of Norway’s foreign policy tools, in close needs analysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2160	The Storting notification of partner countries has been submitted in Stortinget because a majority requested it during the previous majorisation period. I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a clean job and for helping us get this important discussion of Norwegian development policy into the main hall. The debate on 1 p.m. has actually overshadowed the debate on the content of the aid. Fortunately, the Right Party and the Advance Party lost that vote in the last period, and we now have a clear majority in this Chamber to use 1 pst. for assistance. Then we can start an even more important discussion also in this room, about the content of the aid, and we really need it. Development assistance is not a neutral instrument based on objective or technocratic criteria. No, we come with our values – human rights, equality, democracy and tolerance – and we expect progress in the countries where we contribute. While Norwegian and Western development aid had a greater impact on sub-Saharan Africa 20 years ago, today foreign investment and money sent home from people living in other countries have a much greater impact on the economy of these countries. Then we have to think: how can our funds contribute to political development that makes progress for the people of the country, not just for the few? Can we build states not only where the majority gets their will, but also where minorities are protected from discrimination? Does the funds we transfer create better distribution? Do they create equality? Do they create jobs? We, who are the main defenders of aid, must also be the first to say from and promote criticism when necessary. The authorities of some developing countries are right to take decisions that are unwise, which are poor, for example: when the government of Zambia spends a lot of money on luxurious private aircraft. If these countries are to make progress, with voters making the authorities responsible, it is essential that fundamental democratic and political rights are also promoted. Today, therefore, we are promoting proposals to call on all partner countries to make progress in the field of transparency, freedom of the press and freedom of expression, freedom of belief and organisation. Developmental aid is something other than charity. The aim must be to make assistance superfluous, to enable countries themselves to take responsibility for financing and managing basic services such as health and education, to take responsibility for hospitals and schools currently funded by donors. Then we need better tax systems, better management of natural resources, the rule of law and democratic development. And then we also have to raise our ambitions for what the concept of partner countries means. Today, the list appears a little too much as a collection of countries which, incidentally, already receive much assistance today. I look forward to a discussion here in the Chamber with the Minister for Development on why he has chosen exactly the countries that have been elected today. If we are to be serious about the superfluous nature of aid, we must also have ambitions to operate capacity and state building. Much of what we've seen in recent years is that the development aid, or the humanitarian aid we've contributed, has helped build up an apparatus, welfare services, on the side of the state apparatus, and thus perhaps to make countries even more vulnerable. We have also seen that elections have been held in a number of countries in recent years. That's good. But political choices have also been used in recent years by authoritarian leaders to just strengthen their power. The elections have not been real, because the freedom of the press has not been present, or the rule of law is politically ruled. I think that also has to have implications for our development policy. We have to be ambitious without becoming unrealistic. Today, we also promote proposals that the government should come back to the Grand Duchy with a comprehensive presentation of how the instruments of Norwegian development and assistance policy should be used to strengthen its own capacity and capacity to facilitate sustainable, inclusive, sustainable growth and, above all, fair distribution. Norwegian development policy should focus on areas where we have expertise in Norway, where we have experience and technology, and where it can benefit developing countries, for example. in oil management – where we have a lot to contribute – renewable energy and also fisheries. We need to show that we understand the developing countries' own priorities, while recognising that aid has the greatest effect when directed towards countries that show real willingness to help themselves. I'm addressing the Workers' Party's three proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2185	The representative Anniken Huitfeldt has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2190	The Partner Country Communication sets out some basic principles of Norwegian development policy. The notification confirms that the traditional distinction between developing countries and developed countries is no longer relevant. They are no longer talking about countries of destination, but about countries of cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2195	The government has selected 16 countries with which we are to establish partnerships. Ten of these are long-term development partners and six are partners for stabilisation and conflict prevention. The concept of partnership opens up to increased reciprocity. This means that Norway should be able to establish cooperation on issues that are important to us as well. An example of this is migration. The Communication states that it will be relevant in some of these countries to focus on enhanced migration management or reintegration of returned asylum seekers. Point 8 of the asylum agreement also states that countries receiving Norwegian assistance are expected to respect the obligation to accept nationals of their countries. The notification underlines that the authorities of developing countries themselves have the primary responsibility for their development and for mobilising national resources. Partnerships shall be based on a mutual desire for cooperation for development. The Progress Party therefore believes that it is essential that, if the authorities of the partner countries do priorities which are obviously not developmental but which are rather destructive to the development of the country, the impact on cooperation will be assessed. It is not natural for Norwegian taxpayers to cover the costs of schools and clinics, while national authorities give priority to the purchase of unnecessary luxury goods. This does not lead to development or to independence on assistance. The partner country notification is part of the focussing of aid resources. We have never given as much money as we do today. It is no secret that the Progress Party would like to see significant cuts in the aid budget because we believe that the results are out of proportion to the effort, at least not at macro level. But that is not a parliamentary basis for cutting. This is why we support the concentration of assistance around a limited number of countries, sectors and agreements. This makes money flows easier to control and also provides better opportunities for good effect. The notification states that assistance should be adapted to each partner country based on their needs and their comparative competence. It is important to note that developing countries themselves want to demand investment, industrial development, job creation and trade. And this government has turned more of the aid to investment, industrial development and job creation. Norway shall contribute to a safer and more attractive investment in developing countries for both local and international actors. Finally, the Communication states that the objective of partnership is for countries to cope without assistance. This is in line with what many African countries want. I think it is good that Ghana is one of the partner countries. This is a good example of a country that is striving towards aid independence and economic growth. The vision of the Ghanaian President is Ghana beyond AIDS. This vision is important for Norway to be involved in fulfilling it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2208	The ambition of this message is to mobilise the efforts needed to eradicate poverty, malnutrition and so on, to ensure good health, to ensure good education, to reduce climate change and to reduce inequalities in the world. There are big and demanding goals that require action from all of us. If we are to achieve this, the countries must cooperate more. Although Norway can't help everyone, as a rich country, we have a responsibility to stand up and do our part and make our contribution. It is a policy of international solidarity, and I would like to stress that a good policy in this particular area is the best thing we can do to help people where they are. And if we're going to help people where they are, even more so, it's in this area that we should put in increased effort. I'm going to comment on a couple of points from the setting. Africa is already facing major challenges today. If we look a little bit into the future, we'll see that it's the continent that will get the strongest growth in the population in the years to come. It is also the continent in which climate change will lead to the greatest deterioration in food production conditions. In addition, access to clean drinking water could be a major challenge in the coming years. The sum of this is serious, and we stand by it with the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party to stress that aid to sub-Saharan Africa must increase in the years to come. These three parties and SV are also able to comment on the fact that food security and climate-friendly agriculture are an area of activity within the Knowledge Bank. Finally, I thought that the Labour Party had made three very good proposals in this debate, and I would urge the Centre Party to vote in favour of them. It's also fun to sit in the hall and right of the posts where a broad consensus is most often said.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2219	The message we have for treatment, I think, is a useful review of the concept of partner country and a good basis for a slightly more thorough discussion about what types of strategies Norway should have to follow up partner countries. I think it is good that Storting's decision as to whether it has been followed up, and there is a broad consensus in the committee on quite a lot in the vote. But I want to raise some things SV is especially concerned about, and some things there's not fully agreed on. Initially, I just want to say that we have to be careful not to say that concentration is always good. There are also arguments that Norway should be involved in a high number of countries, and we are still involved in a high number of countries. Not least, we see it now at a time when civil society is under pressure in many countries around the world, but also in countries where Norway has development cooperation, that our presence may have something to say in that context. In addition, it will also mean for the future whether we are given the opportunity to escalate in some countries where the challenges may be greater than elsewhere, whether an already has experience and presence in the current part of the world. It is also important to remember that when we discuss assistance, it is in a context where the image of the economy of developing countries is strongly changing. Transfers, investments and trade represent much greater cash flows than assistance, and that also means that awareness of the nature of the operation of Norwegian money as a whole is even more important than before. For SV, it is particularly important – and it is also clear from comments we share with other red-green parties – that the fight against inequality should be a central objective of Norwegian development policy. There are enough differences to trace in the convergence between this government and the previous government. The red-green government presented the message called Share to create, which very clearly laid the foundation for a strong emphasis in Norwegian development policy on the fight against inequality, and showed why it is leading a policy for a fairer distribution of power and wealth also a prerequisite for a kind of growth that can lift many people out of poverty. That is why we want the strategies for partner countries to focus on and prioritise inequality and distribution. Similarly, it's important to see contexts. The government places great emphasis on industrial cooperation in what they have presented in different contexts – we will also come back to this in the budget debate. It is strongly emphasised, but little attention is paid to the social responsibility of business in this context and to the importance of a strong civil society, trade unions, human rights and related environment. The last thing I want to emphasise from the SV is that we strongly support the further development of aid that places greater emphasis on state-building. Tax on development is perhaps the most valuable example of this. We will also come back to that when we discuss budgets – we want a strong increase in taxes for the development programme. Another example of what might be included in the strategies is the environment. Several partner countries want to build coal-fired power plants. We believe that the government should look at the possibility of entering into packages of economic and technical assistance, guarantees and partnerships with businesses and investors for renewable energy, in exchange for scrapping coal-fired power plants plans. Finally, I also think it is important in the discussion of these strategies to focus on what is now happening internationally in terms of women's sexual and reproductive rights. Safe abortions in particular and sexual and reproductive rights in general need to be high on Norway’s agenda when developing these strategies. So one explanation of vote: SV is going to vote in favour of proposal No. 1 and 3, from the Labour Party, but in line with what I said about concentration, we are going to vote against proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2240	The Norwegian aid exposure has its roots in the environment in which I grew up, in the mirage and bazaar tradition of the North West, where the community stands out for those who need it both domestically and abroad. The nice thing about that tradition is that it's built on volunteering, and it creates bonds that bind different communities together. Contemporary aid policy has grown out of a social contract that we Norwegians have concluded. We've decided that there are some values we think we should stand for, and that human rights are a universal concept. Our commitment doesn't stop at Svinesund, nor at Palermo. Norway's aid project has been characterised by the best aspects of our society, but the project has grown organic, and today's biggest challenge is that we have ambitions that do not match what we can realistically achieve. For this reason, there has been a long-standing need to concreteise, delineate and prioritise Norwegian development policies. The government's partner country message is a good tool in this way. By prioritizing, we will be able to do more to ensure children a safe future, women an equal place in society and sustainable economic growth. We can contribute to fair tax systems, anti-corruption agencies and democratic governance, and the more we manage to prioritise, the more likely we are to achieve our goals. The government's priority partner country is a good starting point for this, and although the list will not be static, there is good reason to believe that this will allow us to focus more on these countries in a longer perspective. The words ‘aid’ and ‘development’ are often used as synonyms, but we should use ‘development policy’ much more consistently. It does so because it sees development policy as a whole, where aid forms part of it, but is not the only component. In the future, Norway’s contribution to anti-corruption, judicial governance, free press and a fair tax system will be at least as important as traditional aid. We have to expect that the partner country message is an indication that the government will work in such a holistic way in the approach to our new partner countries. The Partner Country Communication is also a contribution to making Norwegian development policy more long-term. I hope it helps keep more focus on the countries that are now defined as partner countries, and that we can contribute in a way that makes a difference for future generations. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to Minister of Development Nikolai Astrup. With the partner country notification and the notified reorganisation of the aid sector, the Council of State has taken courageous steps like no one before him. It is possible to have different opinions about the countries the Council of State designates as partner countries, and it is possible to have different ideas than the Council of State on the organisation of Norwegian aid, but he should be praised for taking the courageous step that no one has taken before him.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2256	It is liberating that today we are given the opportunity to discuss the content of Norwegian development policy in the context of the discussion of the wholesale communication on partner countries in development policy. It doesn't happen too often in this room, but when it does, it's all the better. The fact that the government now has a Minister for Development also makes it easier to put these issues on the agenda. It's a positive experience I hope the government also remembers. It is also positive that the government is trying to follow up the decisions taken in the Storting through the notification of the Party. This debate is a glaring opportunity to clarify which country Norway should concentrate its resources to get the most out of the aid. At the same time, the message shows wise government intervention in the aid strategy to work more holistically and strategically with assistance and assistance in fields where Norway has national resources, competences and experience that can benefit other countries. That being said, there are several other things that have been important to the Christian People's Party in the treatment of this message. Firstly, we believe that the message could be clearer on the priorities of the partner countries, and that it should be clarified whether the concept of the partner countries provides a stronger geographical concentration compared to the part of Norwegian aid which has traditionally gone to Norway's 15-20 largest beneficiary country. The message shows that the situation is actually different: the total number of recipient countries is no lower in 2017 than 20 years ago, but actually slightly higher. Secondly, the Christian People's Party is concerned that the aid meets where he needs the most. We have noticed that the part of bilateral aid going to Africa has been significantly reduced in the last 30 years, and in the light of the alarming predictions that an increasing part of the world's poor will be just in sub-Saharan Africa, we must ensure that this region is given greater priority. Thirdly, it is important that Norway stick to the demand that aid be as unbound as possible. Only in this way can we ensure the most poverty-oriented assistance possible. For the Christian People's Party, it has always been that the attention given to the target group of aid must be more important than the concern for Norwegian self-interests. In this context, it is worth noting the difference between using partnership and the volume of assistance that is emerging from dialogue on development policy issues such as taxation, good governance, children’s rights and human rights in general and linking assistance directly to Norwegian self-interests. At the end of the day, this big message about partner countries in development policy is about helping those who need it the most, and ensuring the most effective help and development possible. It's about looking beyond ourselves. I believe that the decision in this matter will help. I would recommend that the Christian People's Party vote in favour of the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party. In the case of proposal No: 3, to make demands, we have among other things. had a debate about Tanzania, and I think it's good to make demands. But I want to say that the way in which the Council of State expressed itself in this matter, I thought I was from the beginning. When pointing to this type of requirement, it must be the government which assesses which requirements are to be taken into account. But I think the proposal is good, and that gives us the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2275	Norway has helped to improve the lives of millions of people in recent decades. At the same time, we have failed to contribute to fundamental social change. We have e.g. given millions of children access to school and life-saving vaccines, but we have contributed too little to enabling countries to take responsibility for basic health and education services themselves. It is fully possible to achieve the UN's sustainability target. The challenge is to reach the 2030 deadline. It will require a shift of pace in a number of areas, which must be driven primarily by the countries themselves. All countries need to take ownership of their own challenges, mobilise their own resources and invest more in their own populations. The UN estimates that 90 pst. the resources required to achieve sustainability targets must come from the countries themselves. Therefore, the fight against corruption and illegal capital movements must be given considerable attention. Priority needs to be given to the contribution of sustainable and fair tax systems that can contribute to the transfer of resource resources to increased tax revenues. New digital instruments that can help countries skip many of the stages of their development must be put into use and exploited in all parts of society. Priority needs to be given to the basis for long-term growth and development, education and health for both individuals and society. And – not least – countries need to be better able to build sustainable energy systems and attract private sector investment. Innovation, technology and capital in the private sector can make a crucial contribution to long-term development, growth and tax revenue for many of the poorest countries. At the same time, strong civil society, human rights, environment and climate, equality and women's sexual and reproductive health and rights will be key prerequisites. Norway cannot do everything for everyone. We have spread over many decades too thinly in Norwegian aid. It has not made any changes at the level of society that need to be made. In recent years, Norway has concentrated efforts both geographically and thematically, but there is still a potential for improvement. The partner country message is a contribution to this. The goal of the Partner Country Communication is to establish closer cooperation with a few countries, 16 in the figure, where we are trying to realise the potential for change and to achieve a lasting development effect through a more holistic and long-term commitment, using the breadth of our development policy tools. Over the next few weeks, we will develop country strategies for each partner country, with clear targets for what we will achieve through our presence. Professional cooperation through the Knowledge Bank, work on civil society and human rights, stronger private sector presence, multilateral involvement and bilateral aid cooperation is becoming important in our approach. The sixteen partner countries are divided into two categories: ten long-term partner countries and six partner countries for stabilisation and conflict prevention. The ten partner countries for long-term development are countries where Norway has had a broad and long-term commitment and where we have competence and capacity. At the same time, there are considerable variations between countries in this category. Malawi and Nepal face major poverty challenges and need our support to build capacity and to meet the most basic human needs. Indonesia, on the other hand, is a developing country, but would like to acquire specific competence to realise its potential. In Colombia, we had a central role in the negotiation of the peace agreement and are now a significant contributor to its implementation, while in Ghana, capacity building, competence transfer and Norwegian business cooperation are the main components of our cooperation. Among the six countries for stabilisation and conflict prevention, there are also some variations. For partner countries as a whole, Norway is in a position to make a difference and partnerships are based on reciprocity and a common understanding of objectives and priorities. I am pleased to note that there is a broad consensus on the broad lines of Norwegian development policy and broad support for the communication in its entirety. Finally, let me inform you that the United Nations migration platform will be dealt with before Christmas in New York. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has therefore asked to explain the matter in Stortinget on Thursday 13 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2305	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2310	The Council of State began by saying that we have failed to change the governance of some of the countries to which we have given development aid over several decades. Now these 16 partner countries have been picked out, and my question is: are there any of these that are thinner in the process of continuing cooperation in the coming years, in order to take responsibility for their own development, fight against negative political developments, against corruption or minority issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2315	It's important to stress that I didn't say government, but that we haven't succeeded in changing things at the level of society, so we didn't do well enough to enable countries to take responsibility for their own development. There are wide variations between countries selected as partner countries. What we can say is that in many of them there is reason to be concerned about, for example, the human rights situation. I was in Tanzania last week, and there's no doubt that the situation of civil society and especially lesbian and gay rights is the reason to be very observant when we're in a partnership with the countries. At the same time, we are also in a position to address the issues constructively, and of course we need to see progress over time in order to maintain a partner country relationship with Tanzania.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2320	I may not think I got an answer to the question. I think it is also an advantage for the Minister of Development to have a big deal that is impatient in terms of political development in the countries with which we work. Now I understood that Tanzania is a country that might be re-evaluated. Is that how you understand? There are also other of these countries which, as the Council of State says, have a very negative development on the human rights side. My question is: is the Council of State willing to say that you come back to Stortinget and change the device in Norwegian assistance if there are no significant changes? I think, with all due respect, it's going to be a bit creepy, and I think that the recipient countries you're working with don't understand that there's any clear message from the Council of State that we're really making demands. If you are to be a partner country, you need to show significant improvement in the areas that are prioritised from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2325	I have just submitted a big message proposing who will be Norway’s partner country in the future. Then it would be a little strange if the first thing I did when we dealt with the message in Stortinget was to reconsider the list that I have provided myself. I have provided this list based on the fact that this is a country to which we have had a long-term relationship, which we have the prerequisites for contributing, and where I believe that we should be able to contribute to a positive development in the future. So if development does not turn out to be the way we have seen it, there will of course be a basis for reconsidering whether some countries will still be partner countries, and whether we will be taking in new countries. It is also stated in the message. The majority have agreed on this with conditionality, that we should be careful with it, and I believe that the Workers' Party has been a great exponent for it. I notice that through proposals that have been promoted today, one goes away from that principle. I believe that, of course, we should promote human rights in an offensive way, but at the same time access to the authorities is important in this perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2334	Is it so to understand that the Council of State considers that making demands is contrary to having access to the authorities? It could sound like this at the end of his posts. Maybe it's the opposite that making demands gives you further access, because you also contribute in a long-term way?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2339	The proposal of the Workers' Party can be read in several ways, and if, by making demands, one believes that if one does not immediately see a change in the fundamental human rights, one should withdraw and terminate its cooperation, I think it might be to draw it too far. If, on the other hand, a negative trend is observed over time, I believe it is absolutely appropriate to reconsider our relationship with the countries that are referred to as partner countries for us. I am concerned that, of course, we should have high expectations of the countries that are our partner countries, and the fact that we have a long-standing relationship with many of these countries also enables us to address the situation when we have reason to do so. When I was in Tanzania last week, for example, I was given the opportunity to have a long conversation with the president just about the human rights situation, about the situation of lesbians and gays, about the right to family planning and many other important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2344	It is not stated in the Workers' Party's proposal that if not all requirements are introduced, the aid should be immediately declared. That wouldn't make sense. The debate on conditionality has often been about other things, about very detailed demands on what kind of economic policy to pursue, etc. It is quite right that the left-hand side has criticised it, but I think there is full agreement in this room that we must both have dialogue and, hopefully, also make demands on fundamental human rights. I record that the Council of State does not seem to be against it either. I would like to congratulate the Council of State on its work on the new strategies, but I would also like to ask for his response to a few of the ideas raised during the Committee's consideration, for example. as regards the risk of the construction of coal-fired power stations in several partner countries. Can the government assess the idea launched by SV and the Workers' Party to offer packages that can facilitate renewable energy as an alternative to coal-fired power stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2351	The government is very concerned about promoting renewable energy. Therefore, we double the support for renewable energy in 2019 compared to 2017. The appropriations allocated to Norfund are also greatly increased. It is precisely because we believe it is important to promote renewable energy, that there are good opportunities to do so, and that it is to the benefit of countries that we have modern energy solutions in place. We also work to help ensure that as few coal projects as possible are financed. There are many countries that have projects that they want to realise, but they need to be financed. This funding is often provided through multilateral investment banks, through the World Bank and the African Development Bank. We have, on our own, been given the impression that coal projects are not to be financed through these banks. I believe that this is an important prerequisite for stopping the construction of new coal-fired power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2359	It's all right, but my question was whether the government can assess it by including it in the discussions about the partnership strategies. Let me also add another question, which has been much discussed lately, and which I could imagine hearing the Council of State's assessment of. It is to what extent women’s sexual and reproductive rights in general and safe abortions will, in particular, be part of the dialogue with partner countries on these strategies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2366	As I also said in my speech, partner countries are very different, and it is important that country strategies reflect the context in which they are to be implemented. For very many of these countries, it is quite obvious that renewable energy is going to be very central. Of course, we are committed to contributing to the non-implementation of coal-fired power projects in these countries, without which we believe we should have a conditionality attached to it, directly in the strategy. With regard to women's sexual and reproductive rights and their health, it is a very important issue for the government and, of course, will also be reflected in our dialogue with partner countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2373	When I commented that I thought the council had acted wisely in the situation in Tanzania, it was because the council reacted and went out and was clear that an unwanted relief shot that could hit gay and lesbian in Tanzania harder, and I was pleased. My question about this is about geographical concentration and how we can get a clearer geographical concentration associated with the Party's concept. What I also said in my post is that the total number of recipient countries is not lower in 2017 than 20 years ago, but actually a little higher. With the current policy, my question to the Council of State is where he expects us to be in four to five years' time when it applies to the number of countries receiving it, and I am not least thinking of those to whom we have concentrated assistance, our partner countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2380	In 2017, 73 p.m. went. of the country-allocated assistance to the 20 largest beneficiaries, and it is true that there is a level we have been on for some years. With regard to the number of countries for which we provide assistance, it is important to stress that the total number of beneficiaries should not be mixed, which includes those civil societies that are not subject to the concentration principle, and what we do directly bilaterally from the U.D. In 2013, 109 countries received assistance from Norway bilaterally, less than 85 countries — a reduction of about 25 countries. I believe that we need to focus our efforts further and, not least, make use of the breadth of development policy tools in partner countries. It is not necessarily about the volume of assistance, but that the proper tools are put into use. I then talk in particular about capacity programmes and competence transfer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2387	I have a question about countries falling under category 2 for stabilisation and conflict prevention, where Norway says we should bet more. There we are in the situation that when the foreign budget is to be adopted next week, a cut of 80 million has been made in the budget agreement. kr to Afghanistan, even if it was on the list, and there has been a large cut to the Middle East and North Africa. The Palestinians are now exposed to massive aid from the Americans. We've also seen it under this government. My question to Nikolai Astrup is whether he can confirm that the 25 million. kr, which is cut in the budget unit, will not go beyond the aid granted by Norway to the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2394	We are providing significant assistance to both Afghanistan and countries in the Middle East, including Palestine, and it will continue in 2019 as well, according to the budgetary agreement between the four parties and the budget we have submitted. There is no doubt that we are talking here about countries that need assistance and that will not be able to resolve the situation they are in, without external assistance. Also in a security perspective, there is a need to contribute to a more positive development in these countries than we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2401	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2406	I thought I'd talk about what's going on in the introduction of partner countries and making a concentration. Norway’s assistance is spread too thinly. This is seen in several evaluations – several of these evaluations and reviews have been established. That's why it's very positive that we are now concentrating on aid, development aid and development funds, both geographically and thematically, and that we focus on fewer areas and do it really when we first get involved. What is new with the partner country concept is that we also see more clearly that our development policy instruments are seen in the context. This means that, hopefully, the selected partner countries will experience a catalytic effect of the efforts we are making, and that the various actions also have synergies with each other. This means that civil society, business, multilateral channels and bilateral efforts are united. The bilateral assistance must give priority to partner countries. It does not automatically mean that we should withdraw from countries with which we have bilateral cooperation today, but there is reason to have a critical and holistic approach with the aim of further concentrating. The partner country concept is a first step in such a process, and it will be a useful road map to work on. The partner country concept itself does not constitute a concentration of assistance. We must follow up from the Storting and follow this through our political instruments. The partner country message will be the exact road map for which countries will be given priority in the future. Then I will also mention what goes on in the choice of partner countries and selection of partner countries. There is an overall assessment of the criteria underlying the choice of partner countries. It shows the message we are handling today. The proposed partner countries also face different challenges and are in different situations. Common to them is that we believe Norway can make a difference in these countries. At the same time, many other countries in the world are also facing major challenges and could also be a partner country. However, if we are to achieve results in development policy, it is important that we concentrate our efforts and the ability to make some priorities. It is important to stress that the partner country concept does not deter us from providing assistance to other countries. For example, we will still have a great deal to do with deforestation in Brazil — without Brazil being proposed as a partner country. For partner countries for long-term development, there has been an important criterion in particular. Being on the ground gives a completely different starting point for following up the effort, and this again has a great impact on the outcome and progress. And then I'm going to mention whether we're going to have something left to help us develop. Then I think it is important to stress that we cannot or will not use that development aid as a means of pressing for returns, for example. by refugees or asylum seekers. On the other hand, successful development policies could reduce the need for migration, and we also expect countries receiving assistance to respect their obligations to accept their own citizens. Given that there is very little state-to-state assistance from Norway, in most cases we are a small player, even though we like to believe something else — from our point of view. We are a small actor, and we have more insight into our views by getting into a good conversation, a trusting conversation, with positive instruments. I have to say that I think it is very positive that the government has also set up a consensus forum to ensure that we get this consensus in terms of this policy area. For the sake of order: the right will not support the three proposals made by the Labour Party in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2427	Let me start by saying that we in the Progress Party also do not support the proposals promoted by the Labour Party. Before I start, I also want to commend the Minister of Aid, both for politics and for rhetoric. Policy because it is concrete – much more concrete than it has ever been in terms of assistance – and not least rhetoric, where demands are clearly made. It's not a poorening of people on the other side of the Earth, but it's actually a belief that they can handle themselves in the long term, and that must be the goal. African countries cannot follow a policy based on assistance from Europe or elsewhere. It has not worked until now, and it will not work in the future. No, this is not a hearty comment from a Norwegian Progress Party politician who is himself enough. It is a precisely translated opinion that Ghana's President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, joined a press conference with the French President, Macron, last year. The President of Ghana went on to say: It is not right that countries such as Ghana, 60 years after their independence, should depend on the shyness of European taxpayers to finance health and school for their own citizens. We have to stop asking what Europe can do for Africa. African countries must be able to stand on their own. We have huge areas of arable land, we have natural resources and a young population. These young people should remain on our continent. We should look to Korea, Indonesia and Singapore, countries that got their independence about at the same time. They did it. We can handle it, too. This is how a real leader of his people speaks for himself, a leader who inspires and who has visions for his own country. The contrast is enormous to the efforts of the United Nations these days. There's the idea of the straight contrast to what the Ghanaian President is asking for. In the United Nations Migration Platform, migration from the poor to the rich part of the world is precisely the answer to the problem of poverty and lack of development. The platform is a mix of claims, appeals, commitments and accusations that all aim to legitimise migration flows to the West, while at the same time giving rich countries a little poor conscience. Another way to say this is that the United Nations Migration Platform is an insult to African countries and Africans who are told that they are unable to build functioning economies. They are not able to take care of themselves, despite all the wealth, as the President of Ghana pointed out. The UN migration platform implicitly says that Africa and Africans are abandoned and that their only hope is to come to Europe – an insult to Africans and an impossible task for Europe. The opinion of the President of Ghana is an echo from the party programme of the Progress Party, where we clearly say that aid without demands creates inaction, and that real and worthwhile development takes place through trade. At the same time, of course, we should provide all kinds of emergency aid where necessary. I wonder a little bit about Huitfeldt's argument regarding Zambia and Tanzania. She asks if the government intends to do anything. Why doesn't the Workers' Party do anything? Why is it that not one of the three proposals is about us, for example. shall the assistance to Zambia and Tanzania be cut due to the purchase of presidential aircraft or the persecution of homofiles? The Workers' Party could have done that on its own, they don't have to go to the government to ask for it. This could have been promoted in the hall. A proposal has been distributed in the Chamber to ask for an impact assessment of the migration platform for Norway. That proposal has been distributed. But now the government will come to Stortinget with – I was about to say a confession – a statement, and get a subsequent debate on this platform. This will allow proposals to be made in connection with that debate. We will therefore postpone the promotion of that proposal for the presentation and the debate. And we've been assured that the government will not join the agreement, that is, by acclamation, in Marrakech on 10 December. In that case, we have really come to grips with the proposal, so far, although of course we want, when the proposal may be promoted in a debate after a presentation, other parties will join, so that Norway, in total, does not join the agreement, but that we do what is healthy for the poor and for the rich part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2448	When the budget agreement came a few weeks ago, it was said that it was a big boost for the assistance. The truth was that it was 5 million. kr extra in assistance. The rest was funded with other aid. I now took the floor because I did not get the answer from the Council of State to my clear questions about the Palestinians will be shielded from the aid shoot to North Africa and the Middle East of 25 million. kr. If Norway also cuts to the Palestinians, the situation for them is very serious. We know that the Americans have frozen almost everything. We know that several organisations working there are at risk of going bankrupt, and it would be serious if Norway did the same thing. At all, I think it is a good picture of how this government operates some kind of yes policy in development policy. We are now saying that Afghanistan should be a major cooperation country. Still, we're cutting 80 million. kr. We say the Palestinians should be. We'll make $25 million. kr. We hear from the government about the environment. It's a little strange to hear self-crust from this government about the environment after it's been massive cut for five years. They say it's been a double since 2017. Well in 2018 we are still below what we did under the red-green government with the support of renewable energy. There are only two thirds of what Nikolai Astrup boasts of being a double, so there are only two thirds of what Jens Stoltenberg and the red-green government gave in 2013. But keep me well. It is good that the government has now come up with new ideas and good that they have stopped the cuts from Børge Burnde. I hope the time for massive environmental cuts from this government is over. This week the climate change summit started in Poland. We know that the most important thing if we are to achieve the international climate goals is the fight against coal. It is clear that our support for renewable energy is important. But I and the Labour Party believe that Norway should also look at other areas where we can contribute to the fight against coal. The partner countries of Norway have coal plans that correspond to more than three times the total emissions of Norway. It says something about the dimensions of the challenges we're facing. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party are united in this case and have submitted a comment that we believe Norway should take an international initiative and offer a package that combines both technical advice and assistance. We will combine partnerships with industry and other forms of support from Norway, but on the condition that the coal plans are abandoned. Unfortunately, we do not get the majority for these ideas here today, but the climate minister is also present in the Chamber. I hope he takes them with him, and that we have started some ideas that Norway can work with further. I believe that this could be an initiative which could be very good from the Norwegian side, and which could become a cross-political initiative on the Norwegian side in line with that, for example. rainforest billions have been, combining efforts for the environment and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2463	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2469	It was Aukrust's posts that made me take the floor. Let me first start by saying that with regard to the distribution of funds to Palestine and the neighbourhoods there, it is the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and I am sure that she will answer it in detail gradually. With regard to what was said by the representative of August on climate and environmental issues, there is a significant commitment to climate and environment in the 2019 budget proposal. That's an increase of 1.2 billion. Compared to 2018, and the interesting thing about the Aukrust representative is that he is producing this package that he is offering countries with technical advice, means of assistance, partnerships with the private sector in renewable energy as something new. But this is how we work. This is precisely our approach when building renewable energy in developing countries and helping to realise important projects, among others. in our partner country. We're going to keep doing that. In addition, I share the impatience of the Aukrus representative to deal with coal projects in developing countries. We definitely have to work to do that. But I'm not necessarily sure that conditionality is the best instrument, and I've seen in the past that there has been a relative consensus in this room that one should not operate with the kind of conditionality that the Aukust representative here calls for, and I feel that there might be better and more effective instruments, and we are working, as I also mentioned in the reply, with the funding institutions that are crucial to achieving these projects in order to ensure that coal projects are not financed. We have succeeded in doing so in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. We have succeeded in doing so in the World Bank, and we have also succeeded in doing so in the African Development Bank, and I think that we have basically achieved a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2478	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2494	In this case, it is not put up for debate, but the rapporteur, Mr Sem-Jacobsen, will make some comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2499	I can say on behalf of the committee that the treatment of Prop. 99 L for 2017-2018 has been a short and painless process. There will therefore be a brief presentation of the Committee's position. The background to the bill is that the Stortinget has agreed to transfer first line tasks from the cultural memory field from the Riksantikvar to the county municipalities from 1 January 2020. In this respect, the Ministry has drawn up proposals for a new regulation on powers, etc. by the Culture Memory Act. The regulation must therefore enter into force on 1 January 2020. New regulations include, inter alia: that several first-line tasks are transferred from the Riksantikvar to the counties. Section 28 of the Cultural Memory Act does not authorise transfers of authority for all paragraphs of the Act, so the Ministry proposes that the paragraphs of the Cultural Memory Act, which are subject to delegation to the county municipalities, be added to the first paragraph of Section 28 of the Cultural Memory Act. The amendment to Section 28 is a prerequisite for the adoption of the regulation. The proposal involves the inclusion of Sections 10, 19, 20 and 22 in the layout of Section 28. A unanimous committee endorses this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2510	Prop. 99 L for 2017-2018, Changes in cultural heritage [[girl is the right image according to the law]] The role of the county council as regional cultural memory authority is strengthened by the reform. The size has agreed that first line tasks in the cultural memory field are to be transferred from the Riksantikvaren to the county council, cf. Report. St. 22 for 2015–2016, New elected regions – role, structure and tasks, and Prop. 84 S for 2016-2017, New breakdown of the regional population elected level. The Ministry has followed this up by drawing up proposals for a new regulation on authority under the Cultural Memory Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 2020. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles pursuant to the Culture Memory Act will be repealed. The principle of unity in the administration means that the State does not, without authority, delegate powers to the county councils as an autonomous elected body. The authority of the county councils under the Cultural Memory Act shall thus be ‘directly located’ in the county municipalities and shall not be delegated to them. Under the first paragraph of Section 28 of the Cultural Memory Act, the King determines who is the right authority in accordance with the provisions of the Law. Some of these provisions are listed in Section 28 but not all. Therefore, in order for authority to be transferred to the county councils as the regional reform requires, the list in Section 28 needs to be expanded with several provisions of competence. The provisions in question are §§ 10, 19, 20 and 22. Following the amendment of the law, these four paragraphs will be included in the list in Section 28 of the provisions under which the King may determine who is the right authority under the law. The legislative amendment is a prerequisite for the Ministry of Climate and Environment to adopt a new regulation on authority under the Cultural Memory Act, which is to transfer authority and tasks to county councils in the context of the regional reform. In order to implement the principle that assignment of tasks to elected bodies should have sufficient legal basis, the respective provisions of competence must be included in the list in the first paragraph of Section 28 of the Code of Cultural Memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2525	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2541	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six line changes be made in response to statements by members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2550	Thank you to the Committee for good cooperation. The proposal by the representatives of Henriksen, Aasrud, Torve, Sandberg and Grande calls for better organisation for top athletes and education. The Committee held an open hearing on the matter on 25 October in which NISO and the Olympic Summit took part. NISO wants, inter alia: the establishment of common national guidelines for the organisation of the study, adapted to the everyday life of a top-ranking student, and the commitment of all Norwegian higher education institutions and universities. The Olympic Summit wants students with top sports status to have a statutory right to have the studies organised. The Olympic peak also wants to demand 50 pst. study progress is modified so that lower-progress students can apply for study support according to the study progress they have. The Olympic Summit further wants the maximum time of eight years of study support to be removed. The Committee is aware that top-level athletes are a group that can have specific challenges in combining professional and training and believes that ensuring all access and opportunities to obtain education must be an objective of education and competence policy. The Committee believes that it is important that not only educational institutions but also sports federations facilitate higher education and the completion of a degree by top athletes. The Committee points out that the Olympic Summit already has special agreements with 18 different educational institutions for the 2018–2019 academic year, where parts of it are online studies. The Committee would stress that such individual adaptations should not be at the expense of the professional quality of training or by reducing the requirements of competence. Adjustments for individuals must also not be at the expense of the Community's needs or impair the quality of training provision. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, refer to the opinion of the Council of State on 22 August 2018, where it appears that the government is in the process of reforming its competences, where part of the work is to explore measures that can make education support schemes more flexible and thus more relevant to those who are not traditional full-time students. However, the majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Workers' Party, emphasises that other groups also face similar challenges. If a scheme is introduced specifically for top athletes, more groups of beneficiaries may also be expected to request similar schemes. The majority point to the fact that people with disabilities currently also have special rights in the absence of study organisation and could benefit from a more general scheme including reduced study burden requirements in order to receive support from the Loan Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2573	The Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and the SV, promotes proposals for better organisation for top-ranking athletes and education. We do it because equal rights to education are going to apply to everyone, and because Norway is a sports nation. Today, top athletes have very different opportunities to study, and Norway misses a lot of sports talent. This is due to legislation and support schemes that do not work well enough. We're going to fix that. Top-level sportsmen are not expected to be conducted with full study load. The places of learning shall facilitate, but operate differently — sometimes depending on the goodwill of individuals. Thus, many top athletes are forced to choose between running their sport and studying. Both parts don't work. It is arbitrary about, and to what extent they are given arrangements, and the study support is not flexible enough. The definition of a top sportsman is a sportsman at the highest national or international level. There are approx. 550 of them in Norway today, including disabled people. When top athletes take medals, politicians are often on the record and tweeters, congratulations and proud on behalf of the nation. Today, I hope the hall acknowledges that we have a responsibility to facilitate better sportsmen. They sacrifice a lot while they are active and should not have to move all the way back to the start when the sports career is over. Top-notch athletes are prepared to change their early career. Therefore, it is important for both the performer and society to be able to combine top-level sport with education. The central organisation of the Norwegian Sports Association has raised the matter on behalf of its members, and both the Sports Association and the Olympic Summit underline the need for more organisation of the practitioners, in particular with regard to flexibility in the conduct of studies and funding. The Labour Party takes the organisations of the practitioners seriously and hopes to improve their ability to combine top-notch sport and education. The matter was raised for the political parties in the summer of 2017, and with the exception of the Green Party, who said no, and the Christian People's Party, who did not respond, there were consistently positive and clear programme statements from all parties. That is why we hope for a majority in this matter, and with that I address the Labour Party's proposals that we have alone and with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2586	The representative Nina Sandberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2591	It is important that top athletes have the opportunity to take education so that they are well equipped for work when the sport career ends. It's positive that many of our leading sportsmen will be trained in parallel with the top sports team. For some it may be challenging to combine professional and training. Therefore, it is good that the Olympic Summit has concluded agreements with a number of higher education institutions on the organisation of studies for top athletes. We know that students are becoming an increasingly diverse group, and therefore it may be useful to consider some adjustments to the arrangements that exist for students today. The Progress Party is concerned that the educational institutions are willing to cooperate and find solutions for students who need different adaptations to carry out their education, without jeopardising professional quality. For this academic year, the Olympic Summit has special agreements with 18 educational institutions, where part of the training, for example: are provided as network studies. That's good, and I would like to encourage more universities, colleges and colleges to make similar agreements to give top-notch students the flexibility they need to combine sports and study. However, other groups also face similar challenges and will be able to request similar changes if a scheme is introduced specifically for top athletes. Disabled persons may, for example: the benefit of a more general system of reduced study load requirements in order to receive support from the Loan Fund, and also other groups will have better opportunities to complete training with a slightly more flexible study everyday life. Therefore, it is gratifying that the government is in the process of reforming its competences where part of the work is to explore precisely measures that can make education support schemes more flexible and thus more relevant to those who are not traditional full-time students. The Progress Party looks forward to the results of this work and supports the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2604	This is about top-notch sport, practitioners and higher education, three different areas where we want to be at the top of the world on results and follow-up. The centre party believes that the organisation of different groups that need to facilitate higher education needs to be in focus. The aim must be to avoid a complex system of limited funding. Institutions must have a sustainable framework in which to facilitate students who need it. This helps to ensure that a greater diversity of students can complete their studies. Top-notch athletes are a group that may have specific challenges in combining its profession with education. The centre party believes it is important that top sportsmen have a real opportunity to take education so that they are well equipped for work when the sport career is over. They put an enormous effort into their work and should not be confined further to education and professional life by what they sacrifice along the way. The Olympic Summit has agreed with a number of higher education institutions on the organisation of studies for top athletes. Several universities and colleges are willing to find solutions to enable students who need adaptation to implement it. This contributes to the recruitment of these institutions. Then it is a pity that the Ministry of Knowledge will restrict the group of students who can get organized, as I read the proposal for a change of regulations. We would stress that other groups, perhaps less resource-intensive groups, also have similar challenges. If a scheme is introduced specifically for top athletes, more groups may also request such schemes. In the light of the competence reform facing society as a whole, the Central Party wants a more general approach to organisation. Disabled persons have additional rights today and could benefit from a more general scheme that includes reduced student burden requirements in order to receive support from the Loan Fund. That is why we are proposing this. The Centre Party considers it important that training should not be reserved for high-market athletes and good sponsorship agreements, as the Advocate General draws up. Therefore, the rules in the Loan Fund should be adapted to the situation of top athletes and other groups with special needs as regards the need for extended time for study support. That is why we are proposing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2617	Sporting is important from a public health point of view. It is important for individual health and well-being, and it is important to create good communities. Anyone who follows the handballs of the EM, or who delights in Johnsrud Sundby, is going to the World Cup in Seefeld in February, knows that sport is also important for the nation of Norway. I could have started this debate by also referring to the decision to introduce one hour of physical activity in school, and that it is also important in this context, but I leave it. Like the Norwegian Sports Association and the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee, SV acknowledges that athletes are a group in particular in need of study organisation. SV is concerned that universities and colleges are willing to find appropriate solutions for students who need specific adaptations to implement the desired choice of studies. However, I would like to stress that such individual adaptations should not be at the expense of the professional quality of training or by reducing skills requirements. Moreover, adaptations for individuals must not be at the expense of the Community's needs or impair the quality of training provision. Universities and higher education institutions need to be provided with a professional and economic space allowing these students to be cared for. SV is critical of the changes proposed by the government in the context of the 2019 State Budget on the Student Grant Scheme. We think it will weaken students' ability to get a customized course of study according to their individual needs. This will affect students with top sports careers and others who, for various reasons, need longer time to complete their studies. I would like to make it clear that education should not be reserved for practitioners in large-scale sportsmen with high market value and good sponsorship agreements. Remember how great it was to get acquainted with a new sport when the brothers Rønning won the Olympics in both Seoul and Barcelona, or when Pål Trulsen rolled the curling course in Salt Lake City, how to sit up all night to follow the curling? The whole of Norway was in the head, and in the last month, the chess has kept us breathing. There are, therefore, good reasons why the legislation of the State Educational Loan Fund should be adapted to meet the situation of top athletes and other groups with special needs in extending time for studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2630	Top-notch sportsmen are a group with specific challenges in combining professional and educational activities. It is important to facilitate the possibility for top athletes to take training in order to be well prepared for a life after the sports career. However, we must not forget that there are other groups with similar challenges to those of top athletes. There are different student groups at universities and colleges, which may need additional organisation for periods. There are students who have children, some have disabilities of varying degrees and others are engaged in high-level culture. In the view of the Christian People's Party, we should be very concerned to facilitate the success of a diversity of students in education, including the organisation of top athletes. Even if flexibility is absolutely needed, it is important not to comply with the professional requirements. In our view, a better way than through lawmaking is through dialogue to find good solutions for the individual top sportsman. Then I read the following in one of the comments of the Workers' Party in the setting: ‘To prevent organisation because others may also need organisation is a pointless argument in a education system designed for equal opportunities.’ If this is to be understood as a signal that we can pick out one group with a need for special arrangements, and that it does not do so much if there are other groups with similar needs that are not given priority in this round, I have to say I am a little surprised at such an opinion – as if this with special arrangements would only apply to one group of people. I would, on the contrary, believe that the Workers' Party was engaged in the best possible organization for all groups that need a more flexible adaptation. Stating detailed requirements for attendance and progress in university education programmes is a form of detailed management that I believe should not be a task for the Stortinget. On the contrary, I believe lawmaking is a bad solution. This proposal is a kind of detailed management we need less of if we are to succeed in the ambitions we politicians have for higher education. Then I fully agree that we should have the best possible dialogue with the Olympics and our top athletes in general to discuss the challenges and to try to find good, flexible solutions – without abandoning the requirements or otherwise giving them a simpler way to exams and professional life than the rest of the students do. However, that type of adaptation should apply to all those with special needs, not only top athletes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2650	I agree with the representatives of Kari Henriksen, Rigmor Aasrud, Kristian Torve, Nina Sandberg and Arild Grande that top athletes should be able to combine sport with higher education, so that they can prepare for a new career after the sports career is over. However, I would like to stress that, as far as the practical possibility of adapting the study offer is concerned, it is primarily the relevant universities, sports organisations and students themselves that need to work together to find good solutions to combine top-level sport and study in a good way. The special organisation requirement currently in the law does not concern top-level athletes, but is more intended to safeguard and safeguard the rights of groups with completely different and specific needs. Organisation for top athletes is already very much being done today, for example. through what has been mentioned by others: cooperation between the Olympic Summit and universities and higher education institutions. The training plans that all students must participate in their apprenticeship are an important tool for planning such organisation. In my opinion, further development of digital solutions and online services can also be particularly useful for this group. Digitalisation is one of the government's fields of action when it comes to higher education, and I have great faith that there is something that could help us to facilitate even more for different student groups, not least those who want to combine studies with a top sports career, which often involves much travel. Today, through the agreements on the organisation of studies between the Olympic Summit and higher education institutions, there are many top sports professionals who have adapted arrangements, for example: changed surrender deadlines, decentralised examination so that they can combine exams with competitions, many are given leave, part-time, extension of the course. I would, of course, encourage those institutions that do not already have an agreement with the Olympic Summit on the organisation of studies and top sports to conclude such an agreement. But I would also like to stress that organisation is something that happens both ways, including sport, of the special federations, has a responsibility to help their practitioners carry out studies during the period they are active. In general, it is most difficult to organise studies with many elements of mandatory practice. It is that the organisation of such studies also implies that health businesses, hospitals, schools and other practical workplaces must contribute, and thus it can be quite complicated to achieve. Mandatoryly guided high-quality practices also require continuity. Students should learn to observe and follow up students, patients, clients, etc., and then it is challenging.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2668	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2673	In the 2019 government budget, the government has proposed changes to the study loan scheme. Students who complete a degree can be converted to 40 pst. by their loan to scholarships, while those who do not complete a degree, are converted to only 25 pst. Sees the Council of State that this proposal would unfairly affect, inter alia: top-notch athletes and others in need of organisation for their ability to obtain a scheme tailored to their individual needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2680	What's important to clarify about the conversion system that we're changing now is that it's 15 pst. of the loan that will not be converted as a result of the production of credits but as a result of the completion of a full degree. However, it is also important to know that this is not a turbostift, so the conversion does not require completion in a normal time. So sportsmen and others who need it will still be able to study with a lower intensity than a hundred percent study and thus will be able to take up student loans according to it, without reducing the possibility of getting the loan converted into scholarships.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2685	I ask myself, is re-election negative? On the contrary, I would argue that it is positive that professionals have a broad competence with them, for example. a police officer who first studied sociology or child protection. It doesn't have to be so stupid. It tells me that re-election can lead to higher quality. The left has for many years tried to present itself as the founder party. I imagine a nurse who jumps off and becomes an engineer instead. Isn't that a perfect combination for the challenges we're going to face in the future in health care, i.e. the need for technological solutions in health? Why will the Founding Party Left punish those students who actually sit on this unique experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2692	I am a little uncertain whether we have gone from a debate on top sportsmen to a debate on student finance. I have no reason to say that top sportsmen more than other students choose faults or less manage to complete their studies. It's hard to be a student, it's hard to get through a study. It requires hard work on the part of the student, and when you have a top sports career at the same time you study, you have an extra challenge that not everyone else has. Re-election does not have to be negative in general. If you make a conscious choice, if you see that you've picked the wrong one, and then you pick again, I think it might be quite positive. First of all, you can convert loans to scholarships if you can use the subjects you took the first year. Second, if you make a conscious choice, it's $17,000 if you take one year you don't get credited to the new degree. The important thing is to complete a degree.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2699	I feel that the Council of State is taking up the challenge, and then we can agree to disagree on how to facilitate. But I have some very specific questions based on what the state council writes in its letters to the committee. There are two points. One is that the Council of State points out that, in order for universities and colleges to set up specifically organised part-time courses, they must be sure that they have enough students to take the same study programme at the same rate. Then I simply wonder whether it would not have been useful if such an arrangement could have been available to more people, in order to get a larger student group. The second point is that the Council of State emphasises that the primary target group of the Loan Fund is young first-time students. Then I wonder, isn't it just part of the vulnerable top athletes that the proposers here are targeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2706	We're going to meet a future where we need to better organise students who are in different situations of life, and it won't just be about top athletes, it will be about people needing to update their skills in the future even if they're at work. This is why the government has started up the great work of a reform of competences. I feel that our institutions, our universities and our colleges are very prepared to contribute to this, which we call Learning throughout our lives. In this context, of course, we also need to look at the funding of living during such studies, which can be a challenge even if a worker, not only if one is a top sportsman. So this will apply in general. But it's clear that being a top athlete and studying at the same time is challenging in itself. Facilitating a combination is easier in some studies than in others, and it is difficult — or at least more challenging — to facilitate studies with a high level of practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2711	There is already a requirement to facilitate students with special needs under the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Vocational Education. The proposal of the Labour Party here today does not call for legislation. They're an answer to the fact that the rules we have are not working. Institutions follow different practices. Some top athletes get organized, others don't get. The Council of State first replied that this too should be up to the teaching places in the future. But then the Minister of Culture called relevant organisations into meetings and suggested that it had to be better organised. The grips Trine Skei Grande sketched, very similar to the ones we've proposed. The Labour Party had therefore hoped that the Self-lettered Student Party Left was moving in the matter, but then the State Council of Nybø will end up continuing a bad status quo. Can the Council of State explain what it is Council of State Skei Grande does not understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2716	I myself was present at the meeting of State Council Skei Grande – we had it together – both with representatives from universities and colleges and with representatives from sport, and we had a very good talk. It was found that many people feel that there is good cooperation between sports and universities and colleges, and in many places they make it work well. We agree that we need to try to encourage better cooperation, and that is a cooperation that must involve both universities and universities, sports organisations and students. But we also got to talk a little bit about what's the most difficult with such organization, and that's that there's a big difference in the subject. If a student who is going to combine the study with a top sports career chooses to study economics and administration, it is much easier for a university to organise than if he or she, for example, were to study economics and administration. will be a nurse, involving both municipalities and hospitals, and where large parts of the training takes place in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2721	I think the last arguments would have been very difficult to use for students with disabilities, for example. Now, the Council of State has agreed that top athletes may have specific challenges, but it argues that other groups can also face challenges, and mention especially adults who want to continue training and people with disabilities who would be able to ask for similar schemes. Yes, the Council of States should be aware that the offer to both these groups is too poor. After all, the government is talking about a reform of competences, about a strategy for people with disabilities. The Labour Party has developed a wide range of skills reform where the measures we are proposing here today are perfectly appropriate. They're going to make education possible for more — that's the whole point — not just top athletes. How can the Council of State, based on the background I have just referred to, insist that many people need to be organized, is an argument for not being organized?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2728	I'm absolutely calling for organization. I feel out there that there are many universities and many colleges that are already facilitating top-notch athletes and other groups today. But there are some things that I think we can agree that are important. It's important that everyone gets the same competence when they're done with their education. So we can't go down on quality, and it's clear that it's more challenging in those schools where there's a lot of practice. If, for example: shall have practice in a hospital, and one must be away at a collection, a defect of that practice in that hospital, and then one cannot necessarily just take it back by taking some extra night shifts, for that practice is not just practice, it is an important part of the education. Then there are certain things you need to learn, there are certain things you need to coordinate, you need to make sure that you actually get the learning that you need through the practice that you have. So there are some challenges. But I encourage all our universities and colleges to facilitate top-notch athletes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2734	Then the cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2739	Someone said here earlier that every day of the year we let ourselves be inspired by and delighted with the performances of top athletes, summer and winter, both by functionally healthy and by those with disabilities. It all touches us a lot, not least when we know what's behind these achievements -- one is training, but not least perhaps combining this with school. I've been so lucky to be on the board of the Olympics for almost twelve years. This is a major challenge and is about the different treatment of girls and boys, of people with disabilities and those with disabilities. It is the practice, it is the reality. It also describes NISO in its opinions on this. This challenge not only starts in higher education, but is already in high school. Not least if you want to go to vocational education, the possibility of combining this with top-notch sport is very small, then you have to choose a general course. This escalates when one comes into higher education. The working party believes that the possibility of combining studies and top-level sport needs to be improved – not by legislative decisions, but by changing both the study feasibility and study funding. It's possible to do this in a better way. It's not long since we had a top athletes from the Diakon Home – as the Council of State says, they have, in practice, an absolute requirement of 90 pst. implementation – which was to participate in World Cup qualications for women's football, but was not freed. Would this have happened if it had been a man? Never in the world. Why? Because the economic foundation of men's football and women's football is quite different. This shows that this is discriminatory, especially for girls who do not have the financial basis for combining top-notch sport and education. When both the NISO and the Olympic peak around the country want to improve the framework conditions, I think we should listen to it. If Kristine Leine finished school because she couldn't, this might have been a crucial point in getting to bet on it. Then I think we have not got to this as we should have done. This proposal is so important for boys and girls who want to bet on top sport while they want to combine it with studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2752	During the last week we have felt excitement, joy and pride over brilliant Norwegian sports performances – the handballs, Magnus Carlsen, the cup finals at Ullevaal and Ada that got the gold ball on the weekend. Common to them all is that they're young people who in a few years' time are going into a new everyday life. The time has come to take a political responsibility to ensure that the transition from top-notch to civil life becomes as simple as possible, so that you can get a job and contribute to the community. We're going to be ombudsmen for people outside this room. When the Sports Federation and the NISO on behalf of their members raise a problem that is perceived as a real challenge, they deserve to be taken seriously. We did so when we arrived at Stortinget with the case and the proposal for a representative in June. The aim of sport is to have as far as possible and, in order to achieve that objective, there is a need to address the possibility for top athletes to take training alongside their activities. Training institutions should also be required to provide facilities for students with special needs. When we see that legislation is being practiced differently, that some people are not doing enough to meet the requirement to make arrangements, and that in turn means that you cannot combine top-notch sports and education, it is in their place to ensure a better functioning system. I record that in a letter to Stortinget, the government is making the education support system more flexible. What the Council of State puts in the word ‘flexibility’, after having upset students all over the country by tightening up, can be a good idea. When NISO challenged all the parties at the front of the previous election, the Right said in their answer that they would like to improve. The progressing party said that such organization was positive both for the individual and for society at large. In this context, it is worth mentioning that in the Sundvolden Declaration, the Right Party and the Progress Party have ambitions to ‘ensure sportsmen the ability to combine sport and education’. I record that there is nothing on the Jeløya platform. Whether it's the Left that's been passed through for it not to be there, or whether it's the Right Party and the Progress Party that's no longer concerned with ensuring this group too is not easy to know. Now that we have promoted this matter, at least the right parties have the opportunity to keep their promises from then on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2765	The reason why I take the floor again is that something was said by the representative of Asphjell that I do not think can be contradicted. It was an insinuation that our universities and colleges discriminate against women, and that they less facilitate female top athletes than male top athletes. I think that's what our universities and colleges will take quite a distance from, if that's what the representative tried to say. What the representative is probably right about is that if you're a male top footballer and you're playing football at the elite level, you have a completely different salary than if you're a female footballer at the elite level. Universities and colleges cannot be blamed for this. Clearly, top sportsmen with a salary that many footballers have don't have to study to get a student loan to have money to live with. There is clearly a difference between male and female sportsmen, but it is not necessarily the responsibility of universities and colleges or something they can do about. What we see from the statistics is that women choose health and care education to a greater extent than men. It is those schools where there is the most practice and which is the biggest challenge for universities and higher education institutions to meet. It is not because they do not want to facilitate; it is because there are several actors involved. It is because hospitals are to be involved, municipal health services are to be involved, in the teaching profession schools are to be involved. Several actors are going in, and it itself makes it more complicated. The fact that there's such a large part of learning, of teaching, that happens in practice, makes it complicated. To a large extent, it allows you to study less, you don't have to have a 100 pst. year of study. It allows you to get leave, if that's necessary. So it's already doing a lot. That doesn't mean we don't have the potential to get even better. But when it comes to distinguishing between men and women, it is not necessarily the case that universities and colleges can be blamed for it – it is often about things other than being women or men. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is an important topic that has been put on the agenda. This debate has been about top athletes, as many say gives us a lot of joy, but as I said in my previous post, in the future we will all have to be able to take education combined with being at work or in other activities along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2780	The Council of State has obviously misunderstood, for what she said in the end here is that there is an economic difference between sportsmen and not least women and male sportsmen. This means that some sportsmen — and not least male sportsmen in relation to female sportsmen — have a completely different economic starting point. This is why it is particularly difficult, not least in the field of health — as in the case of, among others. the performer who was going to a quack fight at the national level, who works at the Diakon home. That's the challenge. Then the question is, how can we facilitate progress in the studies, including practice, so that women and those who can't make money on sports can combine this in a better way than what they do today? Today, the choice must be made: either you finish in the studies, or you continue with sports – and you don’t have education when you’re done. That's what's the big challenge. The representative Gruvan was also inside his post that we should facilitate for all groups. We're definitely going to do that, but today we're talking about top sport. That is the case that is being dealt with. We would also like to raise other groups that may have challenges to do so. Time – the biggest shortcoming for a top sportsman is time. Many of them train six to seven hours a day throughout the year, combined with travel and competition. It's clear that this is a special group, which has great challenges in getting everyday life to go up. We have a lot of sports, for example. on the men’s side – rowing may be the sport where Norway picks up most Olympic medals. They don't do it to get rich; they do it because it's nice to do sports, physical activity, etc. But also there we have an obligation on us as to how we should accommodate. There are 550 practitioners in Norway who can be defined as being at the national and international peaks — which we are talking about here, and which the Olympic Summit itself has defined as a target group — both functionally healthy and disabled. In Trøndelag we have a slogan in sport: «Lest in width – best at top». That's a good slogan. NTNU is one of the institutions that facilitate top-level sport. Why do they do that? It's because they see that it's important to be able to invest both in school and in their students and make good arrangements. Now we have a unique opportunity to be part of and contribute in a positive way to all those who want to run top sports in the future. I think we have a duty to, because they all delight us, no matter where in the country we live.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2793	I have to be allowed to round the debate by saying that I think it's a good idea to hear the same parties that have agreed to accommodate – that once you get to the main hall and have the opportunity, you answer that this is an important theme, you're engaged in dialogue, you're engaged in cooperation. Here, sportsmen don't want any easier demands. They're just asking for a little bit of better organization. We have the opportunity to do that today, but the government parties don't choose to do that. I don't understand how difficult it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2798	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2814	In the last ten years, the number of students travelling abroad, either for a semester or two or to complete a full degree, has increased by a total of 44 pst. Global trends in combination with national bets have led to increased student mobility. In 2017, approx. 23 500 exchange and full-time students from Norway to study abroad in higher education. 6,900 of these were exchange students. Norwegian exchange students are distributed across 99 different countries, and the geographical spread is greater than for degree students. As ten years ago, the three English-speaking major acts of education — the United States, Australia and the United Kingdom — attracted most exchange students from Norway. The majority of students have completed a degree abroad — a total of 16,600 completed a full degree abroad in 2017. These students should also be counted on when we talk about student mobility and internationalisation, as they have valuable knowledge when they return to Norway, either to study further or to work. Despite the growing number of Nordics who choose to study abroad, since 2011, there has been an imbalance in the number of outbound students versus incoming students in Norway. Norway has had a higher growth rate of foreign students compared to other countries, despite high cost levels and getting well-known universities. In 2017, there were over 9 000 exchange students in Norway and a total of 34,300 exchange and full-time students who came to Norway to study. Norway has committed itself through the Bologna process to common quantitative objectives for student exchanges. The objective of the Bologna process is to ensure that all students who completed a graduate education in one of the Bologna countries in 2020 would have an exchange abroad during their education. The quality message set the objective of at least 20 pst. of those completing a degree in 2020 in Norway shall have been in exchange. In the long term, the goal is 50 pst. of all students, have had a study stay abroad, as defined in the Annual General Report Culture for Quality in Higher Education from 2017. In recent years, the proportion of candidates with exchange experience has been relatively stable, around 15 p.m., but with wide variations between disciplines, study types and institutions. According to the latest Eurostudent survey, 13 pst informed. of the students that they have had a study stay abroad during their current study programme. Plus 21 pst. exchange plans. On the other hand, over 65 pst. by the students, no plans to go abroad. It will require a significant effort to achieve the 20 pst target. exchange. So what's going to be a long term measure of 50 pst? require exchange? And why is it important that more students leave for a shorter or longer period? As citizens of a globalised world, there is little doubt that both students and working life can benefit from international perspectives and intercultural competence as well as professional knowledge. The yield in terms of language and cultural competence will, of course, increase with increasing duration of the stay and is therefore more extensive for full-time students. Knowledge of the culture of others is also likely to develop more tolerance for other cultures. International student mobility is one of several instruments for internationalisation in education and internationalisation shall be a means of enhancing the quality of education. However, not all students have the opportunity or wish to leave during the study. Internationalisation at home means that Norwegian students receive international impulses in their usual study environment. This may happen, for example: through the internationalisation of the curriculum and/or the integration of international students into Norwegian student environments. Digitalisation also opens up new opportunities such as virtual forms of cooperation and, for example, joint study programmes and training between different countries. Study stays abroad can give the individual student – and ideally also the study environment at home – other impulses. Therefore, both exchanges and exchanges of students are important. But if we want more people to get out, we have to remember that the threshold can be high for students who feel that they are standing very alone in figuring out what opportunities they have, and which subjects can be accepted to an existing degree. The students themselves state that there are three factors that motivate them to leave: that they receive good and relevant information in a timely manner, that the exchange does not go beyond the study process and that the exchange provides good learning outcomes both professionally and in view of more generic competences such as language and cultural understanding. There will therefore be a great deal to be recovered from the fact that the institutions themselves are making the best possible use of the student choice of good exchanges. This can be done, inter alia: by facilitating the exchange of one semester of the study programme and establishing a professionally anchored and quality assurance agreement with partner institutions. For planned programmes, such as: the professional study, it is all the more important to find good topics from foreign partners that can be included in their own way and that any practice is adapted or can be accepted when the students return to Norway. For more and more students, when they return to Norway, they do not have part or all of their education approved. This is a special case for studies that require authorisation at home. Although the Loan Fund provides support for the education you want to take and the NOKUT has approved the apprenticeship, there is no guarantee that the students get jobs with the profession they have trained for when they come home. Here it is a great potential for improvement. Students should be able to obtain prior approval from their own institutions on subjects to be included in a Norwegian degree before travelling abroad. Furthermore, both the Loan Fund and the intermediary of full-time studies abroad should be more responsible for which studies are approved and recommended to the Norwegian youth. State Council Iselin Nybø has announced a keynote on international student mobility, which will be completed by the end of 2019/2020. What does the Council of State think is the most important measure to get even more students to take part of or the entire study abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2839	Let me start by thanking the representative Synnes for the interpellation. International cooperation and dialogue across borders is a prerequisite for addressing the major global societal challenges facing the world. We need candidates from Norwegian universities and colleges with international experience and international competence, because knowledge and intercultural understanding are fundamental to solving the challenges facing the world. Increasing the quality of higher education and research is one of the main government projects. Internationalisation and, not least, international student mobility are a very central part of the work on increasing the quality of Norwegian higher education, and I have high ambitions in that field. As the representative Synnes also points out, there are too few Norwegian students who have a study stay abroad during their study programme. Today, only 16 pst travels. by students abroad during the study period. Through the Bologna process that was also mentioned, we have committed ourselves to 20 pst. students shall have a study or practice abroad by 2020. But in the longer term, my goal is that at least half of those who make a degree should have had a high-quality foreign residence during their studies. It's an ambitious goal, but I think it's important, and I think it's right. That is why I have started working with a big message about student mobility. The ambition of that communication is to contribute to and facilitate a cultural change in the university and higher education sectors, both among the institutions and among the students themselves, so that mobility becomes a fully integrated part of all Norwegian study programmes. It must be such that stays abroad are normal, not the exception, as they are today. How we're going to achieve such a cultural change will be one of the most central questions I'll come back to in the big news. But to succeed in the ambition that we have set, I think there are five very central factors that must be at the root of: Student mobility shall be part of the strategic work of the institutions to enhance the quality and relevance of their education provision and, indirectly, of Norwegian higher education in general. Student mobility shall be based on institutional cooperation and should include elements of both research and education. The funding schemes in Norway shall stimulate increased student mobility, while the legislation shall not prevent this. The management, professional staff and administration of the institutions, as well as the students themselves, shall contribute to the change in culture. Work and business must demand and value the foreign experience and competence of students. So the goal is to get the most out, but at the same time it's important that we make sure that the quality of our stay is also good. Unfortunately, many students today experience that institutions provide too little information and that neither students nor employees are encouraged to leave. I believe that institutions and trade unions need to be better placed to value foreign stays and to motivate students to apply for such an opportunity. They also need to be better equipped to make more tailor-made stays abroad, based on good institutional cooperation with other good foreign institutions, where students know in advance that foreign residence is professionally guaranteed, that it fits into the study programme they are taking, and that they will be recognised when they return home. I think that's something that will give more students the security to take the step out of the world during their study period. I believe that it is still desirable that some Norwegian students take their entire degree abroad, and that they thus acquire valuable skills and build an intercultural understanding. But in order to achieve the growth we want in the number of Norwegian students who gain access to the experience and learning outcomes that abroad provides, much more than today must take part of their degree abroad, and that is exactly what must be the main priority in the future. So, of course, in some study programmes it turns out to be difficult to get a study stay of at least three months. Therefore, I would also like to consider whether to recognise shorter stays than three months. We have e.g. a report from NOKUT and Diku, pointing out that students who have spent less than three months abroad are satisfied with the professional dividend. They also state that their stay has made them more motivated to study. In fact, these findings show that the motivation of some students has increased more as a result of foreign residence than among those who have been abroad over a longer period of time. It is therefore also important to consider the reasons for this, and to consider whether we should therefore allow for the inclusion of foreign stays under three months in the statistics and provide financial compensation for institutions that send out their students for such stays. We also have to remember, of course, that some of our students, for different reasons, do not have the opportunity to leave. Of course, we also need to facilitate these students to participate in an international study environment, but do it at home. Such arrangements may, for example: is a systematic approach to how international perspectives and experience enrich education. We can solve this by using foreign guest lecturers, by actively integrating international students on campus and by allowing them to take a greater part in the everyday lives of Norwegian students, or we can facilitate some subjects, for example. are taught in English or other languages. Such elements may also be combined with short-stay stays in order to obtain a comprehensive international component of education. I also believe that we need to make greater use of the many new digital tools for international cooperation that exist today, and look at, for example, the new digital tools for international cooperation. virtual mobility. All these elements could provide new and flexible opportunities for both internationalisation at home and student mobility from Norway to abroad. The paper on international student mobility will also look at the steps to be taken in order for Norwegian institutions to work more strategically on incoming student mobility. Foreign students coming to Norway bring with them a competence to the institution in which they study, and can greatly contribute to improving the quality of Norwegian higher education. In particular, this would be the case if that exchange is not based only on individuals but also on institutional cooperation. The objective of a cultural change is ambitious. At the same time, I believe that the time is ripe for us to put a much greater pressure on the work on outgoing student mobility. In order for us to achieve a cultural change and get a much larger proportion of Norwegian students to leave, many different actors have to work together. We need to facilitate best regulation and incentives, universities and colleges need to work to make it easier to go on exchange, and students need to actually motivate each other to leave. It's just through such a common promise that we can manage to achieve the rather ambitious goal we've set ourselves. I think that is a good and important goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2887	I would like to thank the Council of States for their good answers. I am very pleased with all the moments that were presented about what will be dealt with in the new message. And in particular, I think it's important that we give institutions a push to work more strategically to make it easier for students to get out and see in a simple way what the offers are. Then I agree with the Council of State that strategic cooperation with good institutions makes it easier not only for the student to find out, but also for the institutions to be able to approve the subjects that the student has taken out after he comes home. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2892	When we started working on this big message about student mobility, one of the most important things for us was just to talk to the students -- talk to the students who are out, and talk to the students who haven't gone out. I've arranged a student summit where this was one of the topics, because it's clear it's important for us to hear what's going on in order for someone to take the step and get out, and whatever it is that makes people choose to be at home. Also on the international trips I've had, I've been busy talking to those students who have actually chosen to travel to that country and study there. I think I can say that without exception, the students I've taken out are very happy with the choice they've made, and they don't regret that they took the step out into the big world. But to go from 16 pst. Today to 50 pst., there are quite a number of students out there who need to figure out what it is to get on the plane and spend a semester in another country. The answers to that are quite different. Of course, some people point to economics, they have a job that they don't want to quit, they have a place where they live, they have their girlfriend at home, they have their family here, they have their dog here, there's a lot of work, they're not sure how to go, they don't feel like things are right for it -- there's a lot of reasons not to go out. There'll always be a lot of reasons not to leave, but we have to get a cultural change out at universities and colleges where the professionals talk about how important it is to actually get out, what skills you get when you leave, what you bring in the job you're going to, or back to the university you're going to. There has to be a common effort where everyone sees the value of going out. Although there's always reason not to do that, there's something about challenging the young people who are students today to look at the opportunities that lie there. They have one of the world's best study funding schemes, and they're young. There are so many opportunities out there to get a good education, and encouraging them to go out on that adventure, I think is an important part of the job. Another important part of the job is to get our business and our working life to recognise and appreciate the competences of those who come back home. It has something to say, because you have a different competence when you start a job, if you've studied abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2905	First, I would like to thank Mr Synnes for raising the debate here today. The Labour Party has long called for the Stortinget to discuss solutions for more internationalisation in higher education. But the representative Synnes asks the non-obligatory government council what she thinks is the most important measures to get more students to take all or part of the study abroad. The responsibility for these measures lies with the government, and it is quite a long time to wait until 2020 to address something that has been a well-known long-term problem. State councils should recognise that Norway is well behind the goals she has set and should be able to achieve them by teaching establishments and students. I hear a lot of talk about cultural change. It's something that's very hard to achieve. Over time you can do it, but it's often worth starting with structures. The Council of State should ensure that apprenticeships facilitate exchanges and take steps to ensure good financial and practical support mechanisms enabling exchanges to be made possible for all students. The share that travels to study is low, and it's been for many, many years. This is known by the government, but does not come with any measures to achieve it. The working party has long been involved in the degree of internationalisation in higher education. It's too bad, and I've confronted the Council of State with it. Internationalisation is crucial for both education, research and value creation in the country. Most new knowledge develops beyond Norway’s borders. Students and employees must be allowed to participate in and contribute to international knowledge development. We're in a hurry to speed up. The only time the government has brought matters about student exchange to Stortinget, it has recently been about proposals to tighten up. It is time for government parties to move from talking about the importance of internationalisation to providing solutions to achieve it. This discussion I am sure that Storting will be more than willing to take part in, but then the government has to make some suggestions first. The Workers' Party will facilitate training abroad. We have decided in the party program that we want to work for all students to have a foreign residence offer as part of a degree. Today, we know that the financial burden often becomes too great. It can make it hard for many to get out. The student economy therefore needs to be included in the forecasted forecast. Getting more international students to Norway has also become more difficult under this government, among other things. by increasing the visa fee. We asked the government if they would reduce the fee to renew visas for international students and thus lower financial barriers to student exchange. They wouldn't. In addition, the government has closed the quota programme, with the result that fewer and fewer students come from the global south. Professor Bente Elisabeth Moen, head of the Center for International Health at the University of Bergen, has stated that the number of African students fell dramatically from the 2016 to 2017 academic year, when the quota regime disappeared. We believe it is a loss for Norway and the study environment that we get fewer students from the global south here. Nor does the government’s compensation scheme seem to have had sufficient effect. Finally, neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party has given up their desire to take school money from international students. The right has programmed to introduce moderate school fees for students from non-EEA countries. In sum, I have to say that the government appears to be passive and not interested in making it possible for us to get more students abroad, and that much more attention is needed if more students are to leave. So far, very little has happened other than that the government has announced that there will be a big message, and that they have asked for input for this work. It will be very easy to put the responsibility on the students and the attitudes they have, as the Council of State has made in articles in the media, which she has also expressed in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2922	Internationalisation of both education, research and working life has many positive aspects, both for the individual student and employee, and for the institutions and enterprises that gain access to competences that are not available through Norwegian educational institutions. This is a major and interesting debate, which can provide a good basis for further work on the mobility message provided by the Council of State. I think the representative Sandberg is concerned with many important issues, to which I hope there will be answers and comments. There is a broad political consensus that internationalisation in higher education is important and a unified approach to the objectives defined in the Bologna process, to which reference is made in the inter-pelling text. The goal is ambitious. By 2020, 20 pst. of students, have been in exchange, against approx. 15 pst. today. In the long term, the target is 50 pst. These are hairy goals, which are becoming tougher and tougher to achieve as there are more and more people taking higher education. The key I mean is information. Personally, I wasn't meant to exchange in my five years as a student, and it might be a challenge for the Council of State when it comes to the conversion scheme, in five years' time, it's enough just to reach into everything you want to do in higher education, because there's so many possibilities. In the face of reality, it turns out that this objective is being challenged in practical and political terms as well. An increasing number of students are taking higher education. Although there are record numbers of students studying abroad, the proportion of students who take their entire degree has fallen. Nearly 1000 students studied to a degree abroad in 2016 than in 2015. The United Kingdom and Denmark have been the two most popular student countries for Norwegian degree students since 2006. That's also where the decline is greatest, as well as Australia. To reverse this trend, it is necessary to analyse and ask why students choose to study abroad. What is the carrot? A significant reason for not doing so is clearly economic uncertainty. Weaker exchange rates in recent years are good for Norwegian business, but a challenge for Norwegian foreign students. Low rates of interest and interest have made it more expensive to study abroad, which was also the subject of the State Council's intervention. Another and essential prerequisite for motivating more students to travel abroad is to provide them with security so that they are allowed to pursue the profession of education when they come back. Here the government has to clear and sweep for its own door. The situation, such as: students who have studied psychology in Hungary have been found unsustainable since they were informed that they were not authorised to pursue the profession in Norway. The measures we want to raise in the debate include: joint and cooperation degrees contributing to mobility within and out of the country for both students and employees. In order to bring forward another element of vocational education: Just as we want more students in university and higher education to study abroad, the Centre Party believes that more internationalisation in the field of vocational education and training is important. Several higher vocational students shall also be able to choose a foreign residence. It is therefore important that post-secondary students receive the same right to study support and, where appropriate, school money support as other students. Here the government has good opportunities to increase internationalisation for higher education and, in particular, higher vocational education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2939	The representative Sandberg believes that the solution to get more students to leave is just to increase the appropriations, so I understand that Sandberg himself has not had a lot of dialogue with the students about why they are not leaving. The reality is that there have never been so many funds to apply for students who want to leave, and especially Erasmus has record-breaking appropriations for students who want to go on exchange. Sandberg also says that we get fewer students from countries to the south because of the change in the quota system. Then you can ask yourself: Is there exchange and internationalisation at any price – or what will we achieve with it? After all, the evaluation of the allowance scheme showed that the scheme did not work well enough. Although it has helped to increase the individual student’s competence, there was not enough systematic work to increase competence at the social level or to strengthen cooperation between the professional community in Norway and the countries involved. The quota system was replaced by more accurate measures. Cooperation with developing countries has been continued through the NORPART programme. The aim of the new partnership programme is precisely to ensure that Norwegian and foreign universities cooperate more closely and thus contribute to capacity building in developing countries. There will be more equivalent cooperation, where the study programmes will be developed jointly. An added value is that not only mobile students should benefit from the quality of their education, but that this should also benefit other students at the institutions and have lasting effects on the quality of their education. In this way, NORPART is aimed at greater ring-effects than was achieved under the quota system. There should be at least as many students from developing countries to Norway as before, but they will come to shorter stays. Staying in Norway becomes an integral part of their education in their home country, and we will be significantly more confident that students actually go home and contribute to their country’s development. Because we saw that especially in the technological fields, a lot of the students were left in Norway, where the labour market needed their skills, and got a job here. Thus, the aid effect was significantly reduced and the element of ‘brain drain’ became more apparent. However, there is reason to note that in 2018 significant funds are still tied up in quota arrangements, so that NORPART has not reached its heights. As of today, NORPART is actually operating for half-machinery, and there is reason to believe that NORPART will achieve much greater results once only the allowance scheme has been phased out. Finally, I just want to ask the Council of State if the new notice will look at the responsibility of the Loan Fund, and the recommending institutions that say where the students are going to go, and give stronger leadership for where they can go?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2952	Let me first say thank you for the interpellation. I was very happy when an interpellation was promoted, precisely because it gives the Storting the opportunity to make recordings, to come up with thoughts, to come up with ideas, quite at the beginning of a work on a big message. There's an opportunity that the representative from the Center Party is gripping with both hands, where she mentions that what we have to look at is whether the students are getting enough information today, whether they know what opportunities are there. She's talking about currency changes and what it has to say about students' uncertainty. She talks about the security students need in order to practice their profession when they come home again, i.e. this by getting it approved, preferably in advance. She mentions common degrees as something we need to look at, and in a familiar way she even manages to get something into vocational education and the need to internationalise that part of the education. This is a good input that we'll of course look at in the work we're now doing. With regard to the article from the Workers' Party, on the other hand, it was not much new to pick up, there were not many new recordings. There was a general complaint about what they think is not good enough, and a accusation that the government is passive and not interested. Of course, I take that very far away from it, because that's exactly why we've taken this inside of the Jeløya statement, that's exactly why we've started this work with a big message – because it's important, because we're not where we want to be. That's exactly why we've set the hard goal that we want half of our students to go out. What I want to do is to look at what we have to do if we're to get more students out – initially 20 pst, but in the long run 50 pst. How do we make things right? What is it that students need to actually take the step out into the big world? Because internationalisation is important. Internationalisation makes our educational institutions better, it makes our students better, it gives the labour market, the business world, a unique competence, a competence needed in a globalised world and in an international labour market. It's an important work we've started now. I think I got a good impression, especially from the representative of the Center Party. We're going to continue working on this, in good dialogue with the work force, with the business community, with the students and with the institutions, because this is something we have to do together. It's hairy goals we have, but it's important goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2963	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2979	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e2988	The Committee has noted that in Prop. 6 L for 2018-2019 it is proposed to extend § 8 g of the Road Traffic Act in order to provide a basis for electric and hydrogen-powered motor vehicles not to pay more than half of the price of parking compared to petrol and diesel-powered vehicles in all or certain charging municipal parking spaces. It is also proposed to repeal the fee support for the processing of the self-notification form and to provide a basis for the sectoral charging for the supervision of parking establishments. This means changes to Section 8(a) and (d). Until 1 January 2017, municipalities were required to offer free parking to electric and hydrogen-powered motor vehicles in municipal parking spaces marked with public traffic signs. Then I would like to comment on the matter I have now submitted as the rapporteur-general. First of all, the centre party will vote in favour of changes in § 8(a) and (d), but we will vote against changes in § 8(g). The reason for this is that the central party's starting point in this case is that we cannot have a symbolic and centralized climate policy that does not take account of differences in geography and settlement and that shifts costs to the municipalities. When I say this, I know that someone would say that the center party is not concerned about the environment, but it is wrong. The center part is concerned about the environment, and we think emission-free cars are super. The centre party believes that there should be good advantages to the purchase of emission-free cars. Then we get speed in the replacement of the car park. But one fact in this case is that the current legislation has only worked for barely a year. And all municipalities already have the opportunity to provide a reduced price for a zero-emission vehicle if the municipality sees that it is the right tool in their local environment. We know that municipalities take environmental responsibility. As an example, Bodø works hard to become a new smart environment city. Bodø wants, among other things: become Norway’s first city without bus emissions. There may be a better bet on the environment than half the parking price for an electric car. And maybe Bodø will also prioritize free parking for electric cars? I don't know. The central party believes that the municipality itself must be able to control these priorities. Municipal self-government is important. This bill on the differentiation of municipal parking goes against the freedom of municipalities to choose the best solution for themselves, based on a local assessment. I want to refer to NOU 2016: 4, New municipal law, where the committee proposes to legislate municipal autonomy. A change of laws like this, about these municipal parking spaces, is against this intention. One fact is that increased traffic in cities, including by electric cars, can replace public transport, bicycles and corridors. It can lead to more particulate matter and more land set aside for traffic purposes. Electric cars are good, but sometimes it may be better to stimulate the use of e.g. emission-free buses and more public transport instead. It is also a fact that this bill discriminates between municipalities and other actors offering parking. If the government's conviction is that the price of parking zero-emission cars is what determines whether we achieve the climate objectives, it would be more real to introduce this principle in all parking spaces, not restrict the authority of municipalities and at the same time allow private operators to maintain the right of self-evidence over their parking spaces. It also takes equal competition into account. Now I haven't read all the recordings that have come to this hearing, but very many of those who have made hearings have been critical of the proposal. They think it's an ad hoc proposal that's come up very suddenly, and they're reluctant to introduce it. If it is introduced, we believe that all parking spaces should have the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3013	Norway today appears to be one of the world’s leading countries for electric vehicles. This is because we have arranged for it through both the general charging system, free passage in the roadblocks and free parking. In addition, access to public transport has been important at this stage. As the number of electric cars has increased, especially in urban areas, it has become necessary to change this. In Act 4 September 2015, the obligation of the municipality to offer free parking spaces to electric and hydrogen-powered cars was lifted. This provision entered into force on 1 January 2017. After that, several municipalities have turned up the tariffs. When examining the 2017 State Budget, it was decided to establish a national binding rule that a zero-emission vehicle should not pay more than a maximum of 50 pst. of conventional vehicle tariffs in the case of tolls, ferries and parking spaces. In order to implement this for parking, it is necessary to amend Section 8 of the Road Traffic Act. In its decision, the size assumes that the choice of environmentally friendly solutions still has to be economically and practically viable. A ceiling was therefore set on how much one could charge in terms of tolls, ferry tariffs and parking fees. The 50 pst rule meets this. However, it is important to stress that the need for change varies greatly from region to region. It must therefore be up to the local authorities to determine for themselves where on the scale 0 to 50 pst. one should lie down. The Ministry also proposed to amend the Road Traffic Act so that the supervision of the State Road Service carries out the parking activity can also be financed by a sectoral charge. This will provide better and more effective supervision. The Ministry also proposed to repeal the State Road Service’s decision to charge a fee for the processing of the self-notification form for the parking establishment. An own-account notification system is used that does not require administrative resources, and thus there is no need to charge for the task. The centre lot shows in its observations that the municipalities already have the opportunity to offer reduced prices for zero-emission vehicles based on local parking regulations. A change to the Road Traffic Act as proposed will reduce the urban space without giving good reasons for the benefits that will be realised as a result of the proposal. I think the Central Party's comment speaks for itself, but I would like to stress that the claim that the introduction of differentiated parking charges is only for municipal parking is distorting competition, hardly correct. But we have seen that some municipalities have started to take full price. We believe that this is wrong in view of the fact that the most effective measure we have to achieve the climate objectives, including for the transport sector, is to favour the most environmentally friendly vehicles. I notice with interest that the Center Party regards zero-emission cars as a problem and not a part of the solution. In large parts of the country, the number of cars is not a problem, but also here we need a modern zero-emission fleet. In the four major urban areas, the number of cars is also a challenge that needs to be addressed by other instruments, as well as an emission-free car fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3032	In Norway, we set the world record almost every month, and it's in the number of electric cars sold. There are many carrots that stimulate increased sales — or for individuals — for the purchase of an electric car. The representative Igstad was inside several of them and said that this is incredibly important. If we're going to achieve the goal that by 2025 there won't be an opportunity to buy a car that goes on petrol or diesel, we're going to have to stimulate the increase even more, and we're going to have to set new world records. What has been the problem lately is that you have not got enough cars for the country. There is really evidence that Norway’s policy has led, and that the use of electric cars in the car park is becoming global. There are several countries that stimulate, perhaps not as well as in Norway, but at least with both economic and other benefits. It was mentioned that on 1 January 2017 a change was made. I was then a municipal councillor in Trondheim. We reintroduced full payment for parking. There was one reason why: The city was full of those who drove to park in connection with work. It was unfortunate because over 30 pst. of all the parking spaces that were in Trondheim, then were filled with cars that stood there all day, and blocked for what the city parking should be to: shorter parking for trade and experiences. Trondheim seized it and then put down the limit to three hours, a maximum of three hours, and there are several municipalities that have. In fact, it was the most important measure to limit the partial use of parking spaces in Trondheim for electric cars only. It was a much more important measure. It's clear that we have to continue with that stimulation in order for people to choose to take an electric car and buy an electric car. I really welcome this text of the law, because it's going to be similar all over the country, and you have something to do with, at least in terms of maximum rates. Then all of us, all of the municipalities, are involved in the great effort we have to achieve the goal in 2025: that no cars that run on fossil fuels will be sold any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3043	We are now discussing a proposal to amend the Road Traffic Act to ensure that electric and hydrogen-powered vehicles do not pay more than half of the price for parking in paid municipal parking spaces compared to petrol and diesel-powered vehicles. The proposal follows up the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 5 December 2016 No. 108 point 2, in which the Storting decided that it should be established ‘a national binding rule that a zero-emission vehicle shall not pay more than a maximum of 50 pst. of conventional vehicle tariffs in the case of tolls, ferries and parking’. The working party believes it is important that it is still profitable and practical to choose environmentally friendly solutions. Even though Stortinget says a maximum of 50 pst. for a zero-emission vehicle, the Workers' Party considers that there is a high degree of local freedom for municipalities to develop parking rules for their own municipality. So the Labour Party is part of the majority that supports a change in the law, so that it is consistent with what the Biggest has already adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3053	I am pleased that the Stortinget today joins in these legislative amendments, which suggest that we are increasingly stimulating positive measures to make the car park more environmentally friendly for the future. Zero-emission vehicles are an important part of the solution we have been pursuing for several years, which is intensified, and which is absolutely crucial if we are to resolve what is the main objective of Norway, simply to meet our climate commitments in line with the Paris Agreement. It requires that we actually do priorities that contribute to it. This makes the Storting with a broad majority today when they conclude that there are still clear incentives for public-funded parking spaces to take precedence over electric cars and help us achieve our long-term climate commitments. I notice that the Center Party is not for the positive tools that help people to be environmentally friendly, nor is it for the more intrusive tools to achieve the goals. I take note of that, but I will remember for later debates that the Central Party, when one can give positive incentives to the car owners, is opposed and will use restrictive measures instead. I'll remember that every time we have this kind of debate in Stortinget. Because that's the seventh and last thing we're going to do, we're going to be happy to meet our climate commitments by 2030. And the transport sector must take a great deal of responsibility for it. It's going to be demanding political priorities that are needed to achieve it. We're going to need a lot of new technology, and we're going to need a lot of positive stimulation, and we're going to need the kind that we're giving this proposal today. So I'm glad that so many parties join this change in law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3060	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3065	In the opinion of the Central Party, too many cases are very concerned about what ESA will say, and ESA is engaged in competition on equal terms. The introduction of discrimination against zero-emission cars only in municipal parking is not on equal terms. This gives private actors advantages that the municipalities do not get. The advantage is that private individuals can charge better than local authorities. What is the reason why the Minister may be in favour of such discrimination? Could he accept such discrimination if it was the reverse – that only the private and not the municipalities were subject to differentiated parking?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3070	The answer to the last one is definitely no. It's because the government is busy with private ownership. I thought the Center Party was too. Or the Center Party was once in a while -- let me fix it. But in more and more cases, we now see that it doesn't apply anymore. Because there is a clear distinction in this bill – by regulating it in public parking spaces, because there the public has paid for it. But commercial interests that are built out due to self-ownership, and for money one itself has invested, do not intervene and regulate detail. This is what the Center Party would have agreed with us in the past – I record that they are not now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3075	The centre party is owned by private property, and we're occupied by municipal autonomy. It's perfectly clear. The Minister did not respond to his assessment of such discrimination in relation to the ESA Code. The Centre Party also considers both the KS and the Trade Union as important, serious actors in society, and both these organisations accepted changes imposing parking conditions on municipalities that do not have other actors. Could not be a better solution, for example: providing free or half-priced municipalities with compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3081	It's a strange suggestion, I haven't seen the Center Party come forward in this setting. This is a recurring problem – the Center Party criticises things and wants us to make suggestions, but they have no suggestions themselves. This makes it a little difficult to keep track of what the Center Party actually means in these debates. Now we have decided that they are for private ownership, except for private parking companies. Then they say they're for municipal self-government. However, this means that the State, the Stortinget, which finances the municipalities, says that there are some conditions here: ‘They must help solve the climate challenge for us, and the transport sector must solve much of it by 2030. They're not going to make it on their own. We have to use the tools we have. They get money every year from Stortinget, and there must be some commitments with it." I have never heard until the Central Party sends money to the municipalities, so there are no obligations. So that's going to be right over there. It does it in other cases, and thank you and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3086	The centre party does not criticise private actors. We propose a level playing field for private parking companies and municipal parking spaces. However, to look at a fully practical side effect of this proposal, for example: reducing the parking charge for an electric car in a city, today municipalities have the freedom to make use of the tax as a means of reducing or increasing the attractiveness of motorised traffic in the centre, and this is being reduced. We can miss out on greater regularity in these parking spaces. Cars with half a price will be longer, and you will get more light driving. Does the Minister see that differentiated payments can also increase the environmental impact?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3093	I owe to give the representative Mossleth honor for it. The centre party gives equally poor conditions for public and private parking spaces. And then we don't solve the basic challenge: we have to get more people to run zero-run cars, and there's a lot of ways to stimulate it. So today's great majority believes in positive stimulation, lower costs of making smart, environmentally friendly choices. The centre party clearly believes that there has to be a higher cost of not taking these options. I'll think about that for later debates. When it comes to diesel taxes, when it comes to tolls around the big cities, when it comes to urban growth agreements and zero emissions targets, I will remember what the Centre Party did in this case. Because it doesn't hang in a bunch. It's just the car-restrictive measures you get, and not what stimulates people to make smart choices about the environment. I'll take note of that, but the Center Party is showing its true face today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3098	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3105	I want to clarify some statements and make some arguments. The first is that representatives from the Central Party do not see electric cars as a problem. We don't see zero-emission cars as a problem. We think of it as very good and favorable. We want to have good purchasing benefits for zero-emission cars, and we want the municipalities that see that for their local environment free parking for zero-emission cars is good, to be able to implement it as much as they like. If they see that half of the price is good, they're going to have to put it in as much as they want. But if the municipalities prefer to bet on something else, for example. zero-emission buses or more public transport must give them the opportunity — or facilitate more cycling and walking. We believe that the municipalities take environmental considerations. And it's not true that we're against zero-emission cars. This proposal comes quite ad hoc as a draft budget. It's in no way consistent. One of the hearing opinions I've read was from Bane NOR. They considered that if their parking spaces were defined in the regulation, a side effect could be that the regulation simply countered the objective of increasing bicycles, corridors and public transport. Bikes, corridors and public transport are also very good for the environment. In addition, there are problems with payment solutions and the cost of replacing vending machines. There will be a need for the conversion or replacement of parking machines, at significant costs, and there are money that could have been used for the best interests of the environment in many ways. The department writes that reimbursement arrangements are possible instead, so that the drivers get the money back, but it will be very bureaucratic. I want electric car owners to have cheaper payment conditions where it is best for the environment and that municipalities can decide for themselves. We are too self-confidential for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3116	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3130	For patients in need of complex and long-term coordinated services under the specialist health service law, a coordinator shall be provided, cf. specialist health service law § 2-5 a. This obligation to appoint a coordinator came in January 2012 and replaces previous rules on a patient-responsible doctor. According to the Directorate-General for Health, the coordinator shall ensure the necessary follow-up of the individual patient. The coordinator shall also ensure coordination of the provision of services in connection with the suspension of institutions and other service providers and ensure progress in the work on an individual level. The health service coordinator's tasks involve coordinating internally during the stay and externally with those to follow up after the job is finished. If the need for continuity and consistency in the course warrants it, the coordinator shall interact with personnel and bodies outside the institution who have or will have a responsibility for the patient for the treatment or follow-up. Examples are given of this, such as the local authority, the local authority coordinator, home health care or specialists in other health care agencies. The coordinator must interact with contact doctors about patients who have been appointed to it, and it is the health care provider’s coordinating unit that has overseen the responsibility for the appointment, training and guidance of the coordinator. It is natural that the appointment of the coordinator takes place at the department that has the day-to-day responsibility for the patient. These are clear requirements for healthcare professionals on how to perform the coordinator’s function. In an interpellation debate, the representative, Bent Höie, announced in June 2017 that former Minister of Health Ansgar Gabrielsen had as a hobby, when traveling around visiting hospitals and health care establishments, to ask about the system of coordinators. It was between 2004 and 2005, and it was rare that anyone could answer if this scheme was in place. In the debate on the interpellation, the representative of Høie said that he had inherited Ansgar Gabrielsen's hobby, simply to ask about this when he traveled around with the Health and Care Committee and visited various health care establishments. The reply was received by Høie, who was the same as Ansgar Gabrielsen. Mr. Stortingsrett Höie said in the 2017 interpellation that he had also asked the then Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre about how many patients actually received an appointed coordinator, and it did not receive a representative of the Groningensrettel Höie's response. So there was no national follow-up to this legal requirement. Mr. Stortingsretten Höie said in the storeroom that he meant this was serious, primarily for the patients, but also that the Stortinget had legalized something that was not followed up. I have inherited the hobby of Ansgar Gabrielsen and Bent Höie. I ask when I visit health care establishments and hospitals: how many patients have been appointed coordinator? They can't answer that, or they could say that it applies to the patients who are in a package process, but they don't know otherwise. I also asked the current Minister of Health if he can answer how many patients have been appointed coordinator, and I have received the same answer as he did. Health Minister Höie is unable to respond to the number of patients who have been appointed coordinator. In answer to question No. 15:744 in 2015 to Stortinget, Minister of Health Höie, states that he does not require specific reporting on compliance with legal requirements. The Department does not have an overview of which hospitals provide patients with the need for complex or long-term and coordinated services, a coordinator. The Ministry assumes that the enterprises meet the different requirements of the Special Health Services Act. Health Minister Höie has previously stated that if health professionals answer that they are in the process of creating a coordinator, he compares that if one of us is stopped by the police after running for 70 km/h in the 50 km/h zone, then we do not answer the police that we are in the process of getting down to 50 km/h. It won't be accepted, and then we don't believe in it, and it's not acceptable. This is also the case with the coordinator function. When it is legal for patients to be offered a coordinator, and that does not happen, that is unacceptable. So to specialist health care professionals: This right, which is also permitted by the same law, shall apply to patients with serious illness, injury and suffering who need treatment and follow-up over time. When the Stortinge dealt with this system of contact doctors for patients with serious illness, the Council of State stated that the amendment of the law would also clear up aspects of the coordinating arrangement that did not work. In a video report from Dagens Medisin on November 8th this year, there were several clear examples that the contact medical system is not working properly either. The report follows a patient with severe neck injury and a course in which he is treated in four different hospitals. For the first time, the patient was not informed from any hospital that he was entitled to a contact doctor, but even discovered that the right was introduced by chance. He himself had to submit a complaint before he got a contact doctor. The patient in today's medical report also did not have a contact doctor appointed for the entire patient's course. The report he received from his rehabilitation hospital, Sunnås hospital, was that the contact doctor was only a contact person for the treatment at this one hospital. In the respondent's letter to the patient, Sunnå's hospital writes: The patient may have two contacts at the same time as the patient in the specialist hospital, one at the emergency hospital and one at the rehabilitation hospital. The hospital writes further: You have received treatment in several hospitals. Despite the fact that such cases are absolutely not uncommon, this issue is not directly addressed in the Directorate-General for Health of the Liaison Medical System. When the Council of State proposed the introduction of the contact medical system, it was stated that seriously ill people and their relatives would be spared from stress by sticking to many different games and telling the medical history again and again. The patient’s need for a permanent contact doctor to stay at home is not diminished because if the patient is treated in several hospitals. On the contrary, it is likely more burdensome to stay informed about the course of treatment if one has to keep in touch with many different institutions. So if the patient himself has to know the law, it applies to both those who need a contact doctor and those who need a coordinator, I think it must be contrary to the intention behind the scheme. When the contact doctor scheme was being heard, the Ministry concluded that once it has been established that a patient is entitled to a contact doctor, the patient should be immediately aware of this. This situation requires answers from the Minister of Health to some questions: Has the establishment of the contact medical system cleared up the problems of the coordinator system, as represented by the Council of State, and has it led to the hospital meeting the obligation to appoint a coordinator to a greater extent? Does the Council have an overview of the number of hospitals that do not fulfil the obligation to appoint a contact doctor for seriously ill patients? Does the Council of State think that it is sufficient for seriously ill patients treated in several hospitals to be appointed a contact doctor at every hospital? And what is being done to clear up the ambiguities that exist in the specialist consultancy on this issue? Will the Council of State require healthcare professionals to have an overview of how many patients are actually offered to the coordinator, and whether they actually meet the legal requirements, or does it, as other health ministers before, assume that this is up to healthcare professionals themselves to offer it, and that the Storting does not need to get an overview?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3160	The president pointed out that the representative said on two occasions that Bent Höie, as a wholesaler, promoted interpellations in 2017. This may not lead to correctness, so the President invites the representative to contact the referee section to ensure that the record is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3165	I am pleased to note that I still share the representative's commitment to these arrangements. Unfortunately, it is not with pleasure that I also partly share the representative's frustration. Whole and coordinated treatment provision has been a requirement of patient and user organisations for many years and is central to the development of the patient’s healthcare. The government has implemented several measures to improve coordinated services. We have called for longitudinal coordinators in the cycle of cancer, mental health and drug abuse, and we have introduced a law on contact doctors for patients with serious illness, injury or suffering who need to be followed up in the specialist healthcare service over time. We have also made clear the provisions on the coordinator in the specialist health service. Health regions are working systematically to implement these requirements, and I have recently received feedback on the status of this work. All health establishments in all regions have established coordinating units. Health North and Health West have also established regional coordinating units and allocated resources to this. Health enterprises have developed guidelines for the functions of the coordinating unit, coordinators, contact doctors and individual level work. Laws and guides are well known to the coordinating units. However, some health professionals indicate that managers in the line have not received sufficient information about the supervisors, and that there is generally little demand and knowledge of them among those responsible for the patient. Health Nord has recently completed regional guidelines for the appointment and function of the coordinator. Health Mid-Norway has established a regional procedure for the function of a contact doctor and has worked to coordinate procedures between health establishments. Health Vest has developed broad guidelines for the individual level and coordinator of all health enterprises in cooperation between regional coordinating units and coordinating units of health enterprises. However, the extent to which the schemes have been implemented varies in the different hospital departments. Although solutions have been developed at system level, the departments may land on different solutions, depending on the capacity, competence and type of subject area. The requirements for the coordinator and contact physician must be adapted to the good arrangements already in place, such as: Ambulance team, coordination nurses for individual diagnostic groups and printing coordinator. Health enterprises have limited knowledge of the number of patients covered by the schemes. They state as a reason that the EPJ system does not have sufficient functions to record which patients have been appointed coordinator and contact doctor. Health companies in Health Mid-Norway have worked systematically to obtain data related to these schemes, and they can now collect reports on the number of coordinators appointed. The reports show that mainly patients in the fields of mental health protection and drug abuse, rehabilitation and rehabilitation are appointed coordinators. In 2018, I requested that health regions should establish a registration system in the patient administration systems for patients that had been assessed and, if necessary, assigned to a contact doctor. During the reporting in June, health regions informed that a common procedure had been established for recording the proportion of patients with designated contact doctors in the DIPS and that health care establishments are working to implement the procedures for registration. This registration system may also be used for patients who have been awarded a coordinator. Health Bergen has taken out a report that shows that 741 patients were assigned contact doctors in 2017. Until 10 June 2018, 904 patients had been assigned a contact doctor and a total of 3,474 patients were actively covered by the scheme. The Health Directorate has assessed the extent to which healthcare has been able to implement the contact medical system by asking 512 employees of healthcare companies and private non-profit hospitals. Half of the respondents answered the questionnaire, and 70 pst. they replied that they were well in the process of implementing the scheme by their department, institution or subject area. They reported a lack of a good system to assign contact doctors as the main obstacle to the scheme. Secondly, the doctor’s work plans and internal disagreements on the type of resource use and that the scheme would lead to excessive workload for doctors. Several health professionals indicate that the system of longitudinal coordinators in the package processes has been easier to implement than the legal requirements of the coordinator and contact doctor. One important reason is that the longitudinal coordinator scheme is linked to defined patient groups and patient pathways. It is therefore appropriate to consider the link with patient trajectories also for the arrangements of the coordinator and contact physician. The package pathways for cancer, mental health and alcohol include a significant proportion of the target population for contact doctors, coordinators and individual levels. It is important to clarify the role of statutory arrangements in different areas of ongoing progress and coordination. It is also essential that the coordinators are anchored in management and that there is not too much responsibility for the individual coordinator, which will make the system vulnerable. The objection to the LMP is that it is too wide, in the sense that it includes patients who do not need a contact doctor or that it is practically difficult to implement the scheme. The recommendations of the supervisor on the patients to be included in the scheme need to be assessed and a safe system of contact between patients and contact doctors needs to be established – without prejudicing the role of the individual. For example, Project Westland Space opens so that contact doctors can have an electronic dialogue with the patient through a functionality on the website Westland Space. There is considerable work in healthcare companies to improve the coordination of patient processes so that patients can receive a safe and predictable treatment provision. But we need to increase the rate of change in this work, and it is essential to make the legal arrangements work at all institutions and departments. I follow this work closely in my dialogue with the health regions as part of the further development of the patient’s healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3211	First, I'm sorry that I said in 2017, when it's going to be 2013. It was a little embarrassing, but in 2017 it was probably Bent Höie. I am pleased that the Minister of Health now acknowledges the problem, and that this is not good. The Health Minister himself has had an involvement in this matter before, as I described in my main post. I have listened carefully to the Minister of Health who replied. It points to a good deal of things that happen at system level, with coordinating units in hospitals and regional, and that one tries to get implemented and made known the legal requirement and guidelines. But I think it's very true, what the Minister of Health said, that this has not been made well known down in the departments, that there is a resistance in the system because it will require resources, and that one in the place of service might ask questions about the correct use of resources. I also see that a register system is being created in which we can get more information about how this is, but when we find out that there are 700 patients who get contact in Health West, it doesn't really tell us that much, because that's what we need to know. It's important. I think this should be reasonably simple. That's not all we legalize in health care, but this is legal, and then it's clearly not implemented. It should be so simple that a patient came and was hospitalized, this was something that one would go through in the case of journalism. There's a question you'd always ask. If we think it takes too much resources, we have to go through the system at least here at Stortinget. Because there's no point in anything being legal, and then we'll look through the fingers with it when it's not followed up. I think this is important. Especially for elderly patients, I think a coordinator is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3224	I note that the debate shows that it is probably just the representative and I who still share the commitment to this issue. I just want to say that I have a lot of understanding of what the representative says, that you should have come further in this area given that many of these arrangements were statutory obligations at an early stage. I believe that we are now taking a number of measures to help ensure that the arrangements also become a reality for patients, by now measuring the hospitals both on how many people are getting contact doctors and on how many people have arranged for a coordinator to be registered. Then we see that there is also reason for a little reflection from us as legislators and politicians – to think through what means it is that actually works when we want to change health care. It has been many years since we introduced a legal requirement on the coordinator, without necessarily doing so, while the working method, the introduction of the package trajectory, has contributed to our success with concrete changes. Sometimes it turns out that it's not always through laws that we can make changes. There are also other methods that political leaders can use to bring about change. I would also like to point out that contact doctors are not only an obligation for healthcare companies, they are also a right for patients. This means that patients now also have a different opportunity, for example: contacting the Patient and User Ombudsman or County if they experience that they have a right to a contact doctor who is not being met. So we know that an important risk of health care damage and errors is transitions. In my view, it is also proof that this will be the right resource use to prioritise healthcare, because the coordinator and contact doctor will be an important tool precisely to make these transitions less risky.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3239	No more words have been asked. Does the interpellant want an end comment? That is not set. The debate on substance is then closed. 7 out of the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3255	In 1978, the Law on Self - Definitive Abortion was passed. There was a milestone in women's right to determine their own bodies and lives. Decision-making on abortion is not a simple decision, but the decision shall be owned and made by the woman. For the past few weeks we have been told that the government in negotiations with the Christian People's Party is speculating in removing the abortion law §2c and replacing it with a new paragraph. An argument put forward in the debate is that more attention should be paid to the situation of women. The abortion law, as we know it today, is neutrally designed and based on objective criteria. If the law is amended to give more emphasis to the woman’s situation, it will open up to a more discretion-based assessment. It leaves women in the denominator and explains why they are in a difficult situation. I don't want anyone to have to expand their life situation and argue why you're unfit to care for the child. Unfortunately, this is the consequence if the objective criteria are removed. In addition, it could lead to more spatial inequality. The Council of State itself has called for the reduction of the number of abortions, because the practice between the denominators is different and, in particular, the discretion-based paragraphs are interpreted differently. It's an awful historical guff about today's debate. Before we got today's abortion, there was safe abortion, or travelling away and letting the stomach grow in hiding, reserved for rich and prosperous. An unmarried poor woman would end up in a critical situation, at risk of serious injury, death, exclusion and years of condemnation. There were clearly social differences in the outcome it got for the woman. The main argument of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party to change the law is to remove what they describe as a ‘discriminatory element’. If more emphasis is placed on the woman's situation, the woman will be forced to stand in front of a denominator and proselyte why she should have an abortion. Many will experience it as an extra load – some as insurmountable. For eloquent women, or for women with good advice, there will always be a solution. An opportunity will be to travel to one of our neighbouring countries, but the wallet will decide. I wonder if the Council of State sees that removing what he thinks is a discriminatory element, opens up large-scale discrimination against vulnerable women, those who need the abortion law most as it is designed today. Changes in the abortion law and Section 2(c) are clearly linked to the possibilities we have to prevent late departure, to not have to use the paragraph at all. It is not difficult to understand that a senaway is a major impact on both the head and body, and it can be avoided by making the decision earlier in pregnancy, it will save women from heavy loads. Research shows that women’s experience of abortion and late abortion can be described as ‘a crisis situation’, characterised by strong symptoms of anxiety and depression. It's serious. We in the Workers' Party will offer early ultrasound to all women in public health services and introduce NIPT tests for pregnant women who are entitled to foetal diagnostics. There are life-saving treatments that foster doctors can provide already in their mother’s life, but it depends on knowledge to be able to provide the necessary health care. Early ultrasound in pregnancy is a prerequisite for finding out if the foetus needs any help. The smallest patients deserve the best health care available. And in those cases where not everything is going to be right, early ultrasound is an important opportunity to discover in time, discover early. Today, women over 38 years of age and other risk groups receive an offer of foetal diagnostics through public health services when they become pregnant. It involves early ultrasound and blood tests, so-called KUB testing. It is joyous and timely that the NIPT test is now coming into place, because it is a more precise and gentle test. NIPT prevents many morning or foetal water samples – which many people today have to take. They are risky and lead to spontaneous abortions every year. Pregnant in Norway deserves the best health service we can provide, the safest health service. Foetal diagnostics provide women with knowledge and facts that can be critical to the ability of the foetus to provide health care. The knowledge given to women and the health care system could help to prevent sensitisation – and at all to avoid using §2(c). In today's law, the legal text is neutral. It is the Council of State itself and the Prime Minister who has made Section 2 (c) the ‘Downs paragraph’. The use and expression originates exclusively from the last few weeks. The neutral paragraph embraces many different, serious diseases and conditions. The organisation Menschwerd has regretted that they referred to §2c as the Downs section. On questions from the Labour Party in the Question Time, the Prime Minister has been asked whether she believes that such a label, used for a neutral paragraph that embraces a lot of diseases, increases or decreases stigmatisation of people with Down’s syndrome. The Prime Minister chose not to be as clear in his regret as the organisation Human Rights. It's worth noting that the number of children born with Down syndrome has been stable in the last 15 years. New legal formulations have been launched through the media to meet the Christian People's Party. One example is the use of the term ‘non-viable’. It raises a number of questions: what is ‘viable’ and who is going to decide? Is a fetus viable when it can live for a few days, or a few weeks, with intensive treatment? Changing Section 2(c) to only a non-viable foetus would significantly reduce women’s right to abortion. Shall we ladies be forced to have to give birth to children so that they may die shortly afterwards? When representatives from the Right and the Government are confronted with the proposals for amendments that have been under discussion, the comment is that changes to the abortion law should not lead to a restriction on women’s rights. It's hard to see that a change is not going to have a real consequence. Former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik recalled in the debate that he also considered changing Section 2(c), but that it was difficult and almost impossible to achieve, because there is a rapid reduction in women's rights. The reason why the Christian People’s Party has raised the matter is that they want a change. The Christian People's Party will make it more difficult to get abortion on grounds of serious illness. Let's be honest: Creative solutions to gather the Christian People's Party around the King's table will have consequences for women in a vulnerable situation. Putting the abortion law on the negotiating table is unworthy. Let us hope that the proposals we have been presented for so far in the debate will be put at the bottom of the Council's drawer in his office – along with the assessments he has ordered from the office. In conclusion, I would like to ask the Council of State: how does the Council of State assess women's rights in the event of a change in the law on abortion, as it has emerged that the government is assessing, and is the Council of State still standing by its statement that women's rights are established?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3285	As the Prime Minister and I have answered the Stortinget earlier on a number of oral and written questions: This government does not have a work going on to change today's abortion permit. This is not the only premise in the interpellant's question that is wrong. Since 1978, according to the abortion law, it has been the decision of the woman to commit abortion before the limit of self-determined abortion by the end of the 12th week. The law of abortion is based on an understanding that the legal position of the foetus is being increased along the way in pregnancy. When the self-determined abortion limit is set at 12 weeks, it is not a matter of the legislators at that time believing that the fetus does not have a self-value until the twelfth week, but that it was the woman who, before that time, was best suited to make that balance. After the 12th week, there is a shift in the protection of the foetus by society, by the decision to grant abortion being made by an abortion candidate according to politically defined criteria. Other parts of the interpellant’s questions are based on an article in the VG based on anonymous sources. The political discussion in this area is about possible government negotiations between four parties. It's not right, as the representative says, that the government is negotiating with the Christian People's Party on this. Questions related to any new government platform can only be answered by the government once the platform has been completed and will be the basis of government policy. The political discussion in this area must respond to the parties, as is also common, for example. in the programme work of the batches. In the political debate that has taken place between the parties over the past few weeks, the Prime Minister, as Højres leader, has opened negotiations on two areas of the abortion law in possible government negotiations with the Christian People's Party: foetal reduction and what is perceived as the discriminating element in Section 2(c). § 2 c may be experienced as a discriminatory part of the abortion law because it gives an unconditional right to abortion if the foetus, for example. has Down's syndrome. Modifying Section 2(c) is not Right-wing policy, although we have different opinions about this in the party. On the other hand, we are open to negotiate the design of this provision, under some clear assumptions. The last time we had a public debate on §2c, the Workers' Party made a serious claim that the Right would force women to give birth to children without a brain. Therefore, it has been important for me to be clear that no one should be forced to bring forth children who are not viable. However, this will not be the only criterion that provides the basis for abortion after the 12th week. Not least, the Right considers that if changes are to be made, the woman’s own judgements need to be given more weight. I believe it is possible to find solutions that remove the discriminatory element in the law, through negotiations. Women’s rights shall not be impaired. Absorbent students need to pay more attention to the woman’s assessment of her own life situation if she is given responsibility for a child with additional challenges. And of course, women should still have abortions in cases where the fetus has a condition that is incompatible with life. Therefore, this – as the Prime Minister also stated in the NRC debate on 1 November and in the Question Time on 14 November – will mean that women seeking abortion in the future after 12 weeks, as much as today, will be granted abortion. Bringing down abortion rates is a political goal across party boundaries. There are no legislative changes to be made, but other measures. The government has, for example: the extension of the free-of-charge prevention scheme and the number of teen pregnancies has decreased significantly in recent years. The government has also significantly strengthened health and school health services. This type of measure is the most important to reduce abortion rates. The right has no solutions, but we are open to negotiate foetal reduction and what is perceived as the discriminating element in Section 2(c), under the clear premises that I have now underlined. But negotiations will take place between four parties. If the Christian People's Party gets a say in this in any government negotiations and this becomes part of the government's policy, it will of course have to start legal work in a very ordinary way. The majority and society will then have ample opportunity to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3308	I expect the Council of State to understand that when he rocks something so fundamental, it cannot remain secret between four parties. When the Council of State uses its office, it belongs to the debate and knowledge of society. I hear the Council of State say that women's situation should be given more weight, but I refuse to believe that the Christian People's Party is fooling itself into a galley where it is going to be partly free abortion until week 18 – ergo we are potentially facing a real tightening. I don't want to be familiar with that. The working party will continue to focus on what you can do before you may have to apply § 2(c). We think it's self-esteem to prevent abortions. If there are gentle tests that reduce the risk of spontaneous abortion, they should be used. An NIPT test is such a test. Governments have approved the use of the test, and it was a wise decision. Not many weeks ago, he said himself that this test could be put into use before Christmas. It's a pleasure. However, the NIPT test has been approved under the current conditions for foetal diagnostics as an alternative before the Morcoa or Foetal water test – i.e. after combined ultrasound and blood test. I wonder what is the value of first performing a blood test and an early ultrasound, then seeing if there's a risk of risk or a higher value, then taking a new blood sample and then possibly taking an amniotic fluid test and a morcace test. Why can't women who qualify for this type of foetal diagnostics get a NIPT test right away with the KUB test? Why do you have to wait for the weeks to go, for the stomach to grow? On 28 April 2017, Olaug Bollestad, the Vice President of the Christian People's Party, said about the NIPT test. She said that very many people don't take embryo diagnostics today because they know there's a risk of spontaneous abortion. When we make it as simple as saying it's a blood test, the threshold has been lowered – so in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, we should scare women from foetal diagnostics and not offer a safe alternative. That is an unsustainable argument for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3323	I note that there are quite a lot of different views between the Right and the Labour Party on these issues, but it is not about women's legal position and the right to self-determined abortion. It's very clear from the right-hand side as well. Then I'm a little surprised that the Workers' Party has had the ambition to start government negotiations with the Christian People's Party all this fall, but thought that they would be able to enter into negotiations with the Christian People's Party without talking about abortion law and questions in foetal diagnostics, which are core issues for the Christian People's Party. When it comes to preventing abortions, I fully agree, and I was also involved in my post. It is therefore gratifying to see that the measures agreed by the government with the Christian People's Party over the last five years have produced results. We are now on the way to a quarter reduction in the number of abortions over a decade, from 2014. It's a pleasure. I fully agree that the NIPT test is wise to use in order to avoid unnecessary foetal water samples and morcine samples, which present a risk of spontaneous abortion. But that is not the position of the Labour Party in this matter. The position of the working party, which was also addressed by the representative, was to use the NIPT test as the first test. It would have a completely different purpose. Then the aim is turned from avoiding foetal water samples and morcine samples to find as many of the foetuses as possible with some form of variation. But it's not that we can just not take the KUB test. The KUB test reveals more than trisomi, e.g. major malformations such as births without the brain, how far the pregnancy has come, and conditions requiring special follow-up during pregnancy, e.g. twins of common morcoa. The NIPT test may only reveal trisomi. So we can't cut out the KUB test and thus miss out on these important questions. The right also disagrees with the Workers' Party's view that early ultrasound should be introduced for all, on public account, simply because such ultrasound does not have a medical justification, has been assessed by the Council for Prioritisation, and has been assessed where it also refutes the claim of the Workers' Party, namely the health benefit of such a study. You're left with the intention that early ultrasound will only be to reveal fetuses that are different.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3336	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising the matter, for it must be kept warm. We cannot accept that women's rights are sacrificed in a political game of clinging to power at all costs. For 40 years we have had the right to determine our own body – an important victory after many decades of women's struggle. Hope was set on fire when Grethe Irvoll from Ammerud got a majority for a bench proposal on self-determined abortion, at the National Labour Party's meeting in 1969. There are now 1.3 million women and girls in Norway, who have never experienced anything but self-determination. They must not experience that that right is being restricted. When we celebrated the first 40 years of the law, hardly anyone had the imagination to imagine that it would be less than half a year before the country's female prime minister, Erna Solberg – excuse me, President – I thought of course Højre's female leader, Erna Solberg, opened up to limit women's rights to abortion. Removing the right to abortion after 12 weeks in case of a risk of serious illness in the child affects people when they are at their most vulnerable. So far into pregnancy, we talk about children who are wanted. One day you are happy and expectant to draw on ultrasound. Then you get a terrible message that leads to an almost inhuman choice – but you have a choice. That choice is the Right Leader prepared to put in the pot to keep the government, and it is not to be believed. It testifies to a lack of respect that I honestly didn't believe the Right would turn into spokespersons for. For the matter is simply as simple as that when people are in that kind of deep personal choice, no one can have the right to make that decision from them. If you were to make a change at this point, it had to be to remove the denominator, all the time it is our foremost medical expertise that has given its assessments of the child's condition. Erna Solberg's attack on women's rights triggered a leap of protests from women and men in extensive demonstrations across the country. Doesn't it make an impression on the Right Trust Chosen One? Many well-known Right-Women had strong statements about a similar proposal at the University of Stockholm in 2013: ‘Some of us dare to disagree with Erna.’ ‘It’s about women’s infidelisation.’ No!’ ‘Vote against the proposal for change – see it as a message!’ – Now most of them are silent. It was a strange performance when the Prime Minister asked in Stortinget's Question Time, while the Right Leader answered the questions. The amendment of the abortion law was allegedly not a question on the government's table. Then I wonder who is responding to this interpellation, is it the Minister of Health or the other Vice-President of the Right? Last week the cats got out of the bag. It was found that the office had already been put on the case, before the Right-leader replied in Stortinget. But if the role shift from Prime Minister to Right-leader was strange, the answer she gave was, even stranger: Section 2(c) should go away, but it should not restrict women's right to decide for themselves. And that's not the only contradiction in the new abortion debate. Many people have reacted strongly to the fact that representatives of the possible government partners call Section 2(c) of the Downs paragraph, to deliberately try to give a false impression that today's law is discriminatory. If there's something that's really discriminatory, it has to be putting Downs on a neutral legal basis. And then I ask, what about those who choose abortion from other states, for example. spinal cord fractures? Are those born with such suffering discriminated against? The worst thing is, however, that someone makes himself add stones to the burden and accuse those who choose abortion after the 12th week from § 2c, in order to sort people. The debate on foetal reduction is, if possible, equally contradictory. So if someone is in a life situation where you don't see how to be able to receive two or more children at once, does anyone seriously believe that the woman's self-determination should be reduced to a choice between both/all and none? It's not related. Monday, Stortinget will deal with the matter of care allowance. The majority of the population, on a proposal from the Christian People's Party, have instructed the government to ensure greater security and predictability in the lives of parents of children with permanent serious illness, including progressive and/or potentially fatal suffering. The government is not following up. The hope is perhaps that it will pass when the Christian People's Party comes into government? But a better care arrangement is a much better place and end up starting than adding stones to the burden for those who make the heavy decision to end a desired pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3357	Fortunately, there are also men in this house who are concerned about this problem, and let me start by saying that I do not support a restriction of women's rights and intensification of abortion law. So what's a little sad about this debate is that the interpellant simplifies it to deal with who's for abortion, and who's against it. That's a shame, because reality is more complex. I am sure that Bjørnebeck-Waaagen knows that this is not a proposal that comes from the government. If the interpellant had followed in the debate, she would have known that the members of the Progress Party have said that it is not appropriate to agree to changes in the abortion law that restrict women's rights. We stand by that. But abortion is a very delicate and difficult topic, not to talk about how complex it is. This also applies to the debate on Section 2(c). I understand that too, although the only changes in the abortion law I could possibly have supported are extensions and decorations in the law. I therefore think it is a pity that the Workers' Party is adding up to this political game where they are throwing around allegations that are not correct. This is not a proposal from the government, but one that has been discussed by politicians in the Right. That's an important distinction. For the Progress Party, it is important to be clear that we support the freedom of choice today's abortion law gives the woman. Individuals are better able to assess whether or not to keep a child, regardless of everyone else. We must rely on individuals to make the best decisions for them. In addition, there are several complications by amending Section 2(c) of the Abortion Act. For what are we going to change it to? Should it be removed, rewritten or made more unclear? Some people talk about changing the paragraph to just dealing with viable fetuses. I'm against it. It is because it will only result in ‘viable’ judgement. Is it about fetuses and children who can live for one day, two weeks, three months or one year? Abortion shall not be a matter of discretion, but a matter of will, ability and ability to bring the child forward. I cannot be clear enough that we do not support removing §2c. For if you remove this paragraph, you deprive many women of the right of self-determination over one's own body. We don't want to be in on that. A woman with sufficient resources shall have the same ability to determine its own body as one who does not have the financial prerequisites for caring for a child. It is not the family economy that should determine whether an abortion is granted or not. This year, the abortion law was 40 years old. We're gonna be happy for that. By law of abortion, women and couples have been given increased freedom of choice and the opportunity to take control of something that was previously left undetermined. We should also be pleased that the law has given families the opportunity to assess their ability and ability to care for children with severe disabilities and serious diseases. Not everyone manages such a problem. Unfortunately, that's the way it will always be, regardless of what we decide in this room. The most important thing we can do is respect the difficult decisions that are made around the different families. Those who choose not to carry a child should be able to do so without anyone else thinking about it. The choice is difficult enough in itself. It should not be relevant to touch the abortion law. The compromise we have reached today balances enormously many different considerations and gives a law, after all, most of it is satisfied with. So the next time we're going to discuss abortion, I'm going to recommend the Workers' Party to also be briefed in the debate before you launch. Then they had heard when the politicians of the Progress Party spoke. For us, there are no restrictions on abortion law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3376	Of course, this is about a restriction on abortion law, and it's important to mention it. But just as important is lifting our eyes, because we're part of a bigger world, and we're not living in a political vacuum. I can't believe I'm standing here defending something as fundamental and obviously women's right to decide about their own bodies. Is this really Norway 2018? Even I was born and raised in Iran, a country where abortion is illegal. I have a mother who has committed illegal abortion – my mother, an Iranian writer, who has repeatedly written about women's lives in his novels, among others. on self-determined abortion. She tells herself about her abortion. Her doctor had given her an address, a hidden room at the end of a dirty time, a room with poor hygiene. She would not use her real name, she would use a false name and not give her name under any circumstances. I know the price of not having self-determined abortion. It's a price paid by millions of women around the world. They pay for something that should be obvious, but that's not, rights that don't exist, because someone thinks that reality doesn't exist just you close your eyes. Because there are forces that think they can deprive women of their natural rights only because they can. Globally, women's rights are what is first and foremost rejected in negotiations and other contexts. Rights that have required centuries of fighting are the first to be negotiated away, restricted, removed, put in a drawer and turned hard on – either overnight, or a little after a while. I think it's embarrassing that we have a female prime minister who wants to negotiate the natural rights of women, and who are taking part in this alarming trend that is taking place in the world – the one who was supposed to be a front figure and champion of individual rights, the one who was to show the women of the world that our rights are not what we're asking for, or beg us to. Both she and the government should be self-evident fighters in the fight for women's rights, both nationally and globally. But instead, they choose to send a dangerous political signal around the world to restrict the right to self-determined abortion. So this is the case in Norway in 2018, when the Right Liberation Party, which claims to be in favour of the rights of the individual, will negotiate with the families-should-have-law-to-determine-self-KrF. Then they're going to get involved in what's best for my uterus and my family. So I stand here, as all the women who stood in Eidsvoll's place and demonstrated. I stand here, as millions of women around the world fighting for their rights. I'm not standing here with a fake name, but with my real name, not at a hidden address, not in a hidden room or at the end of a dirty time, but on the Stortinge pulpit, and ask: Is this really Norway in 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3393	I'm truly sorry that I have to keep this post from the Stortings pulpit today. Who would think that the Right would challenge women’s right to abortion in the year 2018 – 40 years after the Law of Self - Definitive Abortion was passed? It's, as others have said, actually not to believe. The backbone for having an abortion debate now is Erna Solberg's proposal to the Christian People's Party and the dream of a majority government. So the dream of majority rule is more important than women's right to abortion. The right will negotiate a right that a large majority of the political parties have held together since 1978. And it's very quiet from the Right Women – completely quiet. The Left Party and the Advance Party have been so far ahead and said that they are not as positive as the Right Party, and I am very pleased that the Sivert Bjørnstad of the Advance Party is so clear here today. What is the essence of the matter itself? Well, the right is open to a real tightening of women's statutory right to abortion. Right is open to remove or amend §2(c) of the Abortion Act, which today entitles women to abortion after 12 weeks if the foetus is seriously ill. The right also considers removing the possibility of foetal reduction. Finally, the Labour Party believes that if abortion is banned, the very principle of self-determined abortion is challenged before 12 weeks. Minister of Health Bent Höie anno 2016 agreed with the Workers' Party and put good words on what a ban on foetal reduction would mean. At that time, Höie said that by removing the possibility of foetal reduction in reality, there is a need to tighten Norwegian women's right to self-determined abortion. Hoie pointed out that such a change would give a woman who is pregnant with several fetuses, the choice between either bringing out all the fetuses or none of them – that is, all or none, as Lise Christoffersen said. Minister of Health Bent Höie anno 2018 has forgotten what he meant in 2016. The working party considers that no derogation can be made in such a way that the abortion law applies in practice only to women with one foetus in their stomachs. So Section 2(c), which gives women the right to have abortions after 12 weeks if the foetus is seriously ill. Right consider replacing ‘serious disease’ with ‘non-viable’. It becomes an ethically very demanding assessment. The right also considers removing § 2(c) altogether. Then a neutral and objective criterion is removed and replaced by a judgement-based assessment of the woman’s situation. The working party believes it must be up to the woman herself to consider whether she understands to produce a seriously ill foetus. If she interrupts her pregnancy, she must live with that for the rest of her life. If she completes her pregnancy, she must live with that for the rest of her life. This assessment is the woman herself who has to take. She must not expose herself to a denominator. She must not argue for why she does not understand to bring forth a seriously ill fetus. Women and men in heaps now ring around the abortion law. Many thousands of women and men strongly protest at the Right opening to tighten up women's right to abortion. I hope Right Listener. I hope the Right soon ceases to doubt women's right to abortion. It expects the Labour Party, and it expects a large majority of its citizens. The abortion law is too important to be a government negotiating card.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3412	It is not the government of Solberg that has stated that they will discuss the abortion law with the Christian People's Party, so the starting point for this interpellation debate is completely wrong. Today's government will not change the abortion law at all, and today's government has not given signals to the Christian People's Party that this law can be changed. We all know that the Christian People's Party is against women's right to self-determined abortion. In connection with the Christian People's Party's direction, the party's vice-president asked the Workers' Party and the Right whether they would meet a demand to restrict women's rights to abortion. The Right Party agreed to discuss restrictions on today's abortion law, but both the Advance Party and the Left were very clear that it was not relevant – long before the Christian People's Party's fate meeting. The representatives of the Progress Party are freed from these kinds of issues and can vote on their own convictions and consciences, and for me it is completely inappropriate to vote for restrictions in the abortion law. Any case to the Stortinget concerning restrictions on the law of the day is unlikely to have a majority. The abortion law has been in place for over 40 years and has a good balance between the concern for mother and the concern for unborn life. An overwhelming majority of the population want to keep today's law or extend the framework for women's self-determination. A lot of the debate on today's abortion law has been about the so-called Downs section, §2c, which says that abortion can occur after 12 weeks if there is a high risk that the child may get serious disease. Since 1970, the proportion of children born with Down syndrome has increased by 30 pst, so that nickname is a derailment. Another argument Christian People's Party has used is a claim that women get abortion if the child has detected hareshearts, lip slits, and lumpfoot. It has never happened, and the party has had to complain about that claim. The main proportion of abortions according to § 2 (c) are serious diseases, heart failure, spinal cord fractures, neural tube defect and other serious malformations. Today, women have the right to have their cartilage completed when the foetus has been diagnosed with serious diseases that will lead to painful conditions, early death or total or partial need for help throughout their lives. Changes in laws that the Christian People's Party and the Right have taken up are being wrapped up in an argument that women who are in a difficult situation should still have the possibility of abortion. The consequences of such a practice may be an increased pressure on women in a very common life situation to produce children with serious diseases. To me it is unacceptable. In recent times, several women have chosen to share their stories about keeping a seriously ill child, or about the choice of ending pregnancy – mothers who have been told the heavy message that the child in the stomach was suffering from a serious heart defect, and at best would live a short life with a lot of pain. Women tell about a responsibility for the unborn child and the decision to end the pregnancy that was taken with love for a child who would not have a good life. It's hard to read, and it's important. Are there really any politicians who want to review these women's decisions? Having children is a big and binding decision. No one is able to debat the assessments underlying a decision to interrupt pregnancy. I believe the families, who themselves have to take the consequences of the choices being made, are also best able to assess how they are going to deal with difficult situations they are being put into. But the abortion debate has been important to lift. Women and men all over the country have become more aware of what they themselves think about a law that has been unchanged for a long time. What do we really think about considering women's possibilities for abortion between week 12 and week 18? Should we allow modern technology to detect developmental abnormalities and serious foetal diseases early in pregnancy? And if Section 2(c) is perceived to be discriminatory, could this have been solved by extending the limits of self-determined abortion? I believe that this debate may result in a completely different direction from that of the Christian People's Party. A restriction of women's rights in the abortion law is totally inappropriate for me to support here in Stortinget, but I am inclined to discuss extensions to today's abortion law. If we extend the limits of self-determined abortion to week 18, we would be able to remove the denominators in most cases, and we would also be able to remove the Christian People's Party and the Right define as discriminatory elements of the law without restricting the rights of women and families to make their own decisions. I think the Christian People's Party should notice this and ask itself the question of whether there is a solution they want, because it can quickly be the result if the abortion law is presented to the Stortinget. I think it would be wise to ensure the wording of the abortion law that is overdue. The law is not suitable for political games. For that matter, the matter is far too serious and important. That's why I'm stuck on today's abortion law, which I believe has a broad connection both in the Stortinget and among the population. My position in this case cannot be negotiated away.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3435	First of all, I would like to say that I very much appreciate the representatives of the Progress Party who are taking part in the debate and who are clearly on today's abortion law. But Prime Minister Erna Solberg will negotiate restrictions on the abortion law in order to achieve his goal of a majority government. She has full support from the Minister of Health. In this matter, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health have insisted that they express themselves as Right-wing Representatives. I don't think that's a good idea. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Health cannot take off and put on the government hat at their discretion. If you're prime minister, you're prime minister. The Progress Party has a slightly different practice with its state councils, we know that. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health have also stated that the government does not have ongoing work to change the abortion law, but they are therefore equally clear that they are open to restricting the abortion law in government negotiations with the Christian People's Party. Bent Höie actually repeated it today. The Minister of Health wrote in a reply to me last Thursday that he, as the Council of State on the basis of the ruling of the Christian People's Party on Friday, 28 September, engaged the legal competence of his department to assess the question of how changes to the abortion law could be implemented. He asked for an assessment related to removing the objective and neutral element of the third paragraph of Section 2 of the Abortion Act, which the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health described as discriminatory. Of course, the Council of State has the opportunity to make use of the competence of the Agency in ongoing debates on matters within its competence. What is alarming here is that both he and the Prime Minister have insisted on participating in the debate as Right-wing Representatives, not as Head of Government, not as Minister of Health. Therefore, it seems strange to Stortinget that the Minister of Health will not present the assessment of his office regarding the changes to the abortion law. The Council of State should present this to the Biggest and to the public, as long as this is knowledge he has acquired to participate in the public debate, as he himself says. What is even more alarming is that the Council of State has not used its authority to assess its own claims that §2(c) of the abortion law is discriminatory. The paragraph states that abortion may occur after 12 weeks when there is a serious risk that the child may be seriously ill as a result of heritable conditions, diseases or harmful effects during pregnancy, and is in a legal sense both neutral and non-discriminatory. Professor Vibeke Blaker Strand of the Institute of Public Law at the University of Oslo and a number of other legal experts. The Minister for Health has legal competence in his department. The Ministry of Justice has an entire law department that could inform the Prime Minister's office on the matter, but the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health and their spin doctors have certainly realized that this claim was going to have an effect in the debate. If a false claim is repeated often enough, it is likely to be considered correct. In the election a year ago, there was one party that chose to restrict abortion law and remove §2c. They got 4.2 pst. by the votes cast. The newspaper recently presented an investigation confirming that there is no democratic basis for restricting the abortion law. The numbers' speech is very clear. The Norwegian people don't want to tighten up the abortion law. We've also looked at all the reactions, all the demonstrations and all the strong stories from women who have felt this on the body. The newspaper VG today publishes a survey that confirms that among the Right's own voters too, there is a great deal of overweight that believes the Prime Minister has handled the matter poorly. The message to Bent Höie must be clear: leave this behind and publish the assessments that your department has made, so that we do not get into a situation where you commit to a conference room, and there is no transparency in the assessments that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3453	The centre party has programmed that we support today's abortion law, but we also have programmed that we did not allow a practice of reducing the unborn child. We mean that foetal reduction of healthy foetuses is ethically demanding. We were on our own with the Christian People's Party in 2016 on a proposal not to introduce it as an offer in public health. There has never been part of the right to self-determined abortion, because it was not technically possible to do this when abortion laws were introduced. It was the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice that interpreted it so that it would be part of the law. To say that it's to restrict women's right to self-determined abortion when there's never been a right before, I don't seem quite understandable to use it as an argument. Then there's also a point that medically speaking, it's completely impossible to perform foetal reduction before the end of the self-determined abortion limit. None of these interventions are performed until after the 12th week. I'm doing this. I'm responding. They feel compelled to do it. They describe it as a hole in the law that lawyers define it under the right to self-determined abortion, while the licensors and the medical environment say that it is actually not possible. What is ethically demanding, which makes it different from another abortion, is that it exposes the embryo that is left to a significant risk. Then it's problematic. We are also alone in Europe to offer this. When it comes to early ultrasound, as we have also talked about in the debate, it must be said that this was thoroughly done a few years ago. It has been at the Knowledge Centre for Health under the auspices of the National Institute for Public Health and the National Council for Quality and Priority in Health. A great deal of knowledge has been gained about this, and one concluded that there is no evidence that there will be health benefits in mothers or children. So we're talking about introducing routine ultrasound for healthy women. Today we have early ultrasound, but then it happens after an indication of or suspicion of disease – or that one will have an assurance of it, if there are symptoms that could indicate it. We have no evidence that early ultrasound of healthy women will bring health benefits to neither mother nor children. It is also such that this measure will cost money. It's a matter of priority. It will cost professionals, for whom we have a lot of use in maternity and maternity care. The only knowledge acquisition showed that early ultrasound would be good for, is to prove – or call it to hatch – children with trisomi, with Down's syndrome. I fear much more the introduction of early ultrasound when we talk about the sorting society than what the other debate is going on. What you can see by painting the neck fold is in a way the only thing he can be useful for. The centre party is opposed to the introduction of early ultrasound as a routine offer for healthy women. We think it must be like today, an offer that will be useful in suspecting illness in mother or child. It also has a fundamental respect for how we must give priority to health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3476	There is only one reason why the government and state councils have to answer this matter in the Storting now, and that is that they have opened up the debate. I hear that there are representatives from the Progress Party who think it is a little premature, but it is not. There are state councils in the current government that have opened up to this. I fully agree with the representative of Bruun-Gundersen when she says that this matter is not suitable for political games. It is not, but the game is still in progress. It's not parked from the other two government parties. And representatives of the Right admit that they're still keeping the door open and open for negotiations. I'm afraid we have to keep going. I have a poster on my wall at home – I am, as you all know, quite well grown-up – and on that poster it says: «I can’t believe that I still have to protest this shit». And I don't – that we're going to do this. State Council Höie says that abortion is a core issue for the Christian People's Party. Not to weaken the abortion law is a core issue for SV – it may need to be expanded. But wasn't it a core question for the Right too? No, it wasn't. That's not the first time this is happening. It's not the first time Hoie opens to put the abortion law on the table. Five years ago, it applied to the right of reservation. Even then, Höie had an excellent argument against it on her blog – it was so nice that I copied words for words and submitted representation proposals in Stortinget against the proposal that Höie sailed. Now I hear that Höie can also argue very well against changing the legislation on foetal reduction, but is open to change it. So there's obviously no root cause for this right here. There's a reason to call out to all the Right Women I know, and I've been side by side for many years -- some of them are as good adults as me and older than me -- around the principle of this case. Like I said, I'm old. I was an adult and was involved in fighting for changes in the abortion law. There are now some people who talk about the criteria going away, and that the woman's situation is to be assessed by a denominator, where she is going to argue for it. Then I can just tell you that that was the way it was before – to have an abortion before the 12th week. Then the women had to go on a note, and they had to argue with their situation in order to have an abortion. Many have changed, and there may be some attitudes that are gone. We really get to hope that. I think so, too. But expanding your personal situation, humiliating yourself and explaining that you can't do it – I can't understand that someone thinks it's okay, and that it should be more dignified or non-discriminatory than the situation and the law we have today. When women say they want abortion, I can promise that they have assessed and thought. It's not that they need a denominator to think for themselves. Nor do they need the Prime Minister or the Minister of Health to think as if they are better than these women. There is no need to modify the abortion law. Paragraph 2(c) is neutral, as several representatives have been up in the pulpit and said. There has been a great deal of untruth in this debate to influence opinion and the situation. I would like to join in the request of the representatives of the Workers' Party to have the assessments made by the Ministry of Health in this matter, so that we can finish this, so that we can put an end to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3497	First, thank you to the interpellant for lifting this important matter. The harvest's abortion discussion, based on the Prime Minister's signal that it can be negotiated to amend the abortion law, has shocked a lot. We who belong to the generation that has been involved and struggled for women to decide for themselves their own bodies and be the one who ultimately decides such a difficult matter as a choice about abortion is, were very surprised at that. I think most Norwegian women have taken the abortion law for granted, that the law was ‘cut in stone’ and not something that was the subject of negotiations in enclosed spaces, without official control. This harvest has shown us all that the law is just not safe, and that if necessary, at least the Right can be involved in negotiating away women's rights. The reactions were not lacking, and I and my daughter were some of the many who trodden up to demonstrate against this in Tromsø. While I was standing there in the rain of November and seeing all the young girls present, it struck me that our daughters have woken up and realized that they must take responsibility for their own rights. I hope our Prime Minister – or I will say the Right Leader, because you act with several identities in this case – has come to realize that this will not be accepted by Norwegian women at all. Then to the difficult §2c. For it is difficult, and no woman who has to go through it, would ever wish it. Getting into such a situation – to have to assess late abortion – I think I have to be one of the hardest things a woman can get into. But we don't want to accept any restrictions on that paragraph either, because it has to be there, because there may be situations where you have to make use of this demanding paragraph as well. It is a matter of self-determination for the caregiver in the future, and it is a right that must be respected. Abortion is not desirable, but nevertheless someone comes in such a situation where it is the only way out. There are large regional differences in abortion rates. I come from Finnmark, and in 2017, Finnmark had 10.8 abortions per 1,000 women, while the national average was 10.6. Sogn and Fjordane had a rate of only 7.9, well below the national average. I ask myself, why are there so many regional differences in the number of abortions? It is a difficult, and I would say demanding, question to answer. As a Finnmarking, of course, I wish it were different, but I think unfortunately this statistics follow other statistics. It follows the living conditions indices and other factors. All these are areas where all of us politicians naturally want to contribute to improvements. Fortunately, numbers show that it's actually gone the right way. The number of abortions in Finland has fallen and approaches the national average. The goal is to get below this intersection. How are we gonna do that? Then we have to have more health sisters, more stable fixed doctors, good prevention education and available prevention. I am convinced that if we do something about prevention, the figures in Finnmark will go down further. Finally, I would like to say in addition that the abortion law must stand firm and not be subjected to political games, as we have seen this fall. Because it's really been a political game.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3518	What the government thinks about the abortion law is not easy to clarify. But luckily, what Norwegian people think is simpler. There's very little support out there to weaken the abortion law, and we've rarely seen a similar commitment to the last few weeks and months. So I would like to thank all those who have raised their voice and made this a matter that will be very difficult for the Christian People's Party to get through to government negotiations. If the Right does not meet the Christian People's Party in this case, it's not about Erna Solberg having the ability to put down his feet for special demands, because that ability is quite small, but on the contrary it will be those who have engaged themselves around the country, his honor and no one else's. Red supports the abortion law. We support self-determination and should also like to extend the limit to week 18. That's a lot of reasons. The main reason is that we believe women's right to determine their own bodies must go ahead of other considerations. It is the woman who knows her own situation best, and who is best able to assess whether or not pregnancy should end. Then, of course, she must have good medical follow-up, but the choice must be at last her own. We respect that abortion can be an ethically difficult dilemma for someone, but there are no good alternatives to letting women decide for themselves. As soon as we go away from self-determination, we get a society that sorts women's reasons for taking abortion for accepted and non-accepted reasons, a society where power moves away from women themselves, over to those who get power to sort out the reasons. And they won't be better able to make that choice than the one who's even pregnant. So the question of §2c. It is very important to keep Section 2(c). Paragraph 2(c) means that the woman’s self-determination in practice also applies after 12 weeks in the difficult cases where there is a high risk that the child may be seriously ill, as stated in the law. The matter must be settled within a name, but the woman does not have to appear, and abortion will be granted. Therefore, § 2c cannot be removed or changed without affecting women's self-determination, in particular with current legislation, where serious grounds are needed for abortion after week 18. Removing § 2 (c) will mean that the woman must try to have abortion on a different basis in the law and probably must make herself poor or exaggerate in meeting with the name in the hope of having an abortion. It will be felt as a humiliation for the person concerned. Since many detect malformations only after week 18, it will be extra demanding to have abortions without §2(c). There is a need, as mentioned, for serious reasons. And what would qualify as a reason good enough if Section 2(c) were removed? No one knows for sure, but what we know is that a rule that the fetus must not be viable will create great uncertainty and in practice result in a tightening of the law. Paragraph 13 of the Mortgage Act states that if the person provides incorrect information orally or in writing in an application for termination of pregnancy, he may be punished by a fine or imprisonment for up to two years. Has the government considered what it could lead to if Section 2(c) is removed? We are at risk of getting a law that states that women in desperation must have the truth in the hope of having abortions, while at the same time punishable by fines or prisons if you provide incorrect information. Is the Right and Christian Party willing to put pregnant women in such a situation? I really hope not. That is why I asked the Minister of Health to answer in writing what the government will do if the change or removal of Section 2(c) results in women being prosecuted under Section 13. Unfortunately, the Minister of Health did not answer my question clearly. It doesn't make me any less worried. That's why I try one more time: Is the Right really willing to put pregnant women in such a situation – yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3533	I took the floor in this case because this kind of becomes a very strange debate. I want to make a few concessions. The question of what to do with the abortion law is not something that came on a mountain in connection with the negotiations with the Christian People's Party or the Christian People's Party. For the right, ethical issues are quite important policy issues. In fact, we spent almost our entire national meeting in ours talking about the Biotechnology Council. Biotechnology and the challenges it creates in relation to ethical issues are, in fact, something that everyone should be allowed to discuss without being caricatured. What made this debate on the abortion law up to date was actually the possibility of foetal reduction. It was a debate we had in the party before the summer, and it created and created debate. A party that ours will address ethical questions and discuss them. In principle, it is clear that the principle that the woman should have the last word in terms of abortion is a good principle versus the denominator option. Until twelve weeks, this is an inevitable principle, but it is not going to get away from the fact that new technology confronts some ethical dilemmas that we have to deal with. Here the abortion debate becomes very one-dimensional. Firstly, we are now able to identify the characteristics of the foetus at a much earlier stage. It also gives us the opportunity to opt out of what is not viable, or which is the bearer of a serious genetic defect, at a much earlier time than before. These are the criteria that lie there, and they can be reasonable. Secondly, we're able to save premature births on a much larger scale at a much earlier time than before. The third is what makes the debate on abortion topical: the possibility of foetal reduction. Then we're not talking about foetal reduction where one of the fetuses is damaged or has the properties that come under Section 2(c), but we're talking about fetuses that are healthy, where the only criterion is that there are actually several of them. And then there's another way to think about it. You could say it's the woman's body, but the only thing that connects the fetus and the woman's body is the umbilical cord. At some point you have to decide when a person becomes a human being – when a child becomes a child. That's the kind of question we have to ask ourselves in a discussion like this. It's not today's abortion law that you want to change, but you want to take over the possibilities that new technology has given us, and that presents us with completely different choices, and that presents the woman and the denominator to a completely different choice and options than they had before. This is a question that we in the Right have the courage to address, like what we did last year in the field of biotechnology. It is not uncommon for a large community to set the framework for addressing fundamental ethical issues. I also think we have to assume that there may be a time when we have to look at the framework in which this should be included, without having to caricate in the direction that we are now going to remove the abortion law, and that we are going to change and remove the woman's opportunity to choose. No, we're not going to, but we have to assume that you actually have a lot of opportunities to make this choice a lot more ethical, and as a big community, we have to be allowed to discuss this issue within reasonable limits. The fact that the Christian People's Party has raised the question also made this matter relevant in that context, but initially this is an ethical question which is also addressed by the Right in its ethical debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3552	Paragraph 2(c) of the Abortion Act has been debated. In fact, she, who is now President of the Grand Prix, said before the election that here the Right is quite clear. Yes, even Kjell Magne Bondevik said that there were such great ethical and legal concerns about changing Section 2(c) that he could not do so. But that's when this debate comes up, in negotiations, and here Bent Höie is very honest. It couldn't come as a surprise, he says, that the Christian People's Party would bring this up. I'll say it so that the Right-Women have been clocky anywhere else than in this staging room and in the discussion outside, because there they don't take the word. But here we are taught by the Right Men that it is derailment, that it is a nice debate, that we are incalculable, and that we do not take the difficult discussion about new technology. Well, I'd like to take the difficult discussion about new technology, but not as part of a power game, because that's the way this discussion has now brought it up. I don't think that's worth it. We need a much more reflective debate on these difficult issues. What I have not received an answer to today is the question of names. During this discussion, many have spoken. I've talked to doctors who have been in the denominators, and to women who have been in the denominators, who tell how difficult it is, and have been, to them. I ask the Minister for Health to answer this question: does he not see that asking if the law imposes a burden on each woman? Today you are right, now you have to ask for permission. It's a change. I also believe that it has been unclear whether the Minister of Health really considers the law today to be discriminatory. On the one hand, he says that the law can be perceived as discriminatory – then I get associations with the Prime Minister earlier today, that it is self-experienced, that this is how we experience it – but on the other hand, he says in the discussion that he wants to change the discriminatory elements of the law itself. Then he concludes that Section 2c, as the Right Women, has emphatically fixed the Right Country Meeting, we shall maintain, ergo is not discriminatory, but then he himself brings in an element that Section 2c is that. I deeply disagree with that. I think it's important to discuss all the ethical aspects that new technology gives us, but not as part of a power game. I think the Women of the Advancement Party are exemplaryly clear. I have not heard a word from the Right Women, and I hope they dare to take the floor in this discussion, for they have won through at the Right Country Meeting. We heard before the election that the Right was clear on this question. Now there has been an unworthy debate about power games and not about ethical dilemmas associated with new technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3567	Here comes a Right-Woman who has been on the track all along, but I didn't go on trains 14 days ago. It is not because I do not believe that the law on abortion § 2 (c) should be amended. I believe that the abortion law § 2 c should be exactly as it is, but I did not go by train, and that is because I also believe the abortion law should be debated. There has been a tremendous technological development since the abortion law was passed in 1978. There are many possibilities that we have today, which were not considered when we wrote the law in 1978. So in the light of that, we should definitely be able to debate it. After the Christian People's Party challenged Erna Solberg and Jonas Gahr Støre, I have taken a proper dive into the issues of abortion. What turned out to be simple and straightforward to me before – don't touch the abortion law – turned out to have many implications and shades that should definitely be debated. Norway, for example, is the only country in Europe that allows twin reduction. The medical practice of self-determined twins away surprises me. In fact, it is medically safest to implement this in weeks 13-14. Now the doctors who carry this out have also come on track. It's St. Olav's hospital in Trondheim doing all the birth reductions, and a doctor named Salvesen says we should make sure to get the twins into the abortion subjects. I think it's very good that these doctors have come on track for what's really the practice. I was not aware that this was how it worked. There should be room to debate both twins away and abortion law §2c, without being compared to a dark man. This is not about the debate of the past on self-determined abortion. Self-determined abortion until week twelve is very clear. The parts of the abortion law that the Christian People's Party wants to debate, about which they want to negotiate, are not about knitting sticks at all. It's a strong exaggeration. Let it be clear: for the Women's Forum in the Right and for the Right in general, it is not our desire to amend the abortion law §2c. Bent Höie was very clear on that earlier today. We had a thorough debate on that in 2013. So Erna Solberg has said that you're willing to negotiate it on the condition that women's rights are strengthened. I expect that our leadership in the negotiations with the Christian People's Party will actually ensure that women's rights are strengthened if we are to agree to a change. Then I have to say something about the climate of debate in this matter, because I think it's been very tough, very hard. There hasn't been room for a single shade. I wish it was less merciless. I would like to be able to set aside the slogans and give way to the nuances, for ethical, demanding debates depend on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3582	One can get the impression in this debate that ethically demanding debates are reserved for the Right Party, that only the Right Party has the height to take the difficult debates properly. I think that's very special to say from this pulpit, and I take that very far from it. I think all the parties in this Chamber are perfectly fit to take the difficult and demanding debates, but I do not think those debates are best suited to lure parties into government negotiations. I'm recording that the Progress Party is ready-to-use in its opinion. I think that's great. But I also register that the Progress Party thinks it is a bit awkward that their government leader has gone out and opened this ballet. We have now seen that the head of government has opened up to take the discussion with the Christian People's Party, and that the Council of State has used its office to make judgements. Then I find it hard to know when a prime minister is prime minister, and when a state council is state council, because you can obviously jump between roles. Is the Council of State at day and perhaps the Vice-Chairman at night, or how should you deal with this? It could have been nice to get an hour schedule, because I've been walking around and believing that you were conscious of your responsibility all along. It has been said by the Council of State that the Workers' Party will cut out the KUB. Let me clarify: the working party likes to keep KUB, but I can't understand that we're going to keep a blood sample that looks for an increased risk of trisomy, and then have a new blood sample a few weeks later, after the stomach has grown. Why drag out the painful period for the woman and for the couple? Why shouldn't the ladies get the answer you need right away? Over the last few weeks, we've heard many strong stories, tough ladies who've stood up and told us about the strongest experience in their lives. I think it's great that ladies all over Norway have stood up and told me, but it should have been unnecessary. In the Workers' Party, we want to introduce early ultrasound to everyone in public health. I record that there are parties that think you should still wait for the regular ultrasound, but you won't necessarily be able to get a different answer then. Shall we wait, let the stomach grow, to make the abortion even a little bit worse? For the Workers' Party, there is no alternative to rock today's abortion permit. We have a clear position: the working party must protect women in profoundly demanding situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3599	I just feel the need to stress what I also said in my post, namely that when the Right has opened up to negotiate with three other parties to make changes to Section 2(c), it is subject to the condition that one does not weaken women's rights, even though there have been a number of claims about the opposite of other parties in the debate. The representative Huitfeldt asked if I think it would be difficult to meet in an abortion subject. The answer to that is, of course, yes. But that's how today's abortion law is, and it's precisely because the fetus's legal position is increasing along the way in pregnancy, and society has said that after twelve weeks, it has fostered such a legal position that it's no longer the woman's own decision, but the denominator's decision. The representative Christoffersen claims that § 2c is neutral, and asks rhetorically whether it is perceived as discriminatory for people with spinal cord fractures. It can be answered by reading former Councillor Guro Fjellanger from Left's posts in the Daily of 15 November of this year, under the heading "I have not been seriously ill for 54 years if I have lived with spinal fractures throughout my life". In the article she writes: ‘The main problem is, in my view, the use of the term ‘serious disease’. It is stigmatizing and discriminatory.’ Both people with Down's syndrome and people with spinal cord fractures experience §2c of the abortion law as discriminatory. It is an experience that no one can take from them, neither friends nor family – nor bigotry representatives. All the discrimination in history is rooted in the fact that a person picks out one characteristic of humans and allows it to define man's value, whether it be by sex, sexual orientation, skin color or other characteristics. That is what is the nature of discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3613	With that, the debate on substance is no. 8 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3631	In the course of the debate, three proposals have been put forward by Mr Huitfeldt on behalf of the Labour Party. There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls for the government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with an overall presentation of how to use the instruments of Norwegian development and assistance policy to strengthen the partner countries’ own capacity and ability to facilitate sustainable, inclusive, sustainable growth and fair distribution.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3652	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget calls on the government in the proposals for the forthcoming aid budgets to ensure both that the budget share of LDCs does not fall and that efforts are increased to assist the countries with the major development challenges in sub-Saharan Africa’. The Central Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3669	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to make demands on all partner countries for progress in the work of transparency, press, expression, belief and organisation.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3744	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3754	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3763	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Nina Sandberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Nina Sandberg on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to contribute to the education of top-ranking athletes by developing more customised study offerings.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that educational institutions develop more and adapted study facilities.’ [[universities, colleges and specialised schools]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3800	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the possibility for top-level athletes and other groups with special needs for adapted courses of study to be organised and for part-time students to be better facilitated. In this context, the government is encouraged to investigate a change in the 50 pst requirement. study burden in order to receive training support from the State Lending Fund for Education.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to open the possibility for top athletes and others with special reasons to apply for training aid over eight years. The reasons for this shall be specific and shall be applied for by the State Loan Fund for Education.’.» Red has notified support of the option. The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3826	Case No. 5 was interpellation, and therefore there is no wetting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3883	It is quoted above I, § 8, first paragraph, point (g). The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3897	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3908	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3918	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Case No. 7 and 8 were interpellations, and therefore there is no wetting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-05.ana.ud557e3945	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? So it doesn't seem, and the meeting is cancelled.
