ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e108	Honourable co-representatives! On 3 December 2017, former depositor Kjell Opseth from Førde died, 81 years old. He represented the Labour Party and Sogn and Fjordane for five periods, from 1981 to 2001. During this time he was among others. Member of the Energy and Industry Committee, Secretary of the Transport Committee and Secretary of the Trade Committee. From 1990 to 1997, he served for six years as Minister of Transport in Gro Harlem Brundtland's Third Government and for a year as Minister of Local and Labour in the Government of Jagland. There are very few who experience being referred to as a legend in their lifetime. But Kjell Opseth was one of these. He was a symbol of political action. He was not the one who gleaned on the speaker's chair with great visions and invigorating wording. Instead, he was the man who carried out, where others talked. Of what he said, we think best of the short, subtle comments, which only strengthened the image of what the English call "no-nonsense" – no nonsense. There is no lack of physical monuments after Opseth's political function. He was the one who cut through and obtained multiple numbers in the seemingly eternal battles over the main airfield of the Austland and the Oslo–Bergen route. Oslo airport Gardermoen is now located, as one of the world's most beautiful and well-functioning airports, and Gardermobanen likeins, with its efficient transport of passengers into and out of the capital. And in his dear homeland lies the Laerdal Tunnel – still the longest in the world – and arouses respect, gratitude and some mild smiles, including among those who have never run it, but remembers Opseth and the political craftsmanship. Another monument is less attentive, but so big: the adventure of Telenor. With Opseth, the old Telecom was transformed into what has been a locomotive in Norwegian business and technology development, a significant contributor to our common well-being, one of the world's ten largest mobile operators. Behind the impression he gave, and the background he came from, the modernizing, national community builder may have come a little in the shadow. Because that's what Kjell Opseth was -- a national community builder. Behind the particular characteristics such as results-oriented, solution-oriented and pragmatic, there may also be something else in the shadow: his commitment and deeper, social-democratic justice understanding of what it is all about, building a country for the benefit of future generations, building an entire country, feeding home, workplaces and futures in all parts of the country, and then tying these parts together to a whole – to the community we are and should be. We shine peace over Kjell Opseth's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e140	The representatives of Svein Harberg, Kristian Tonning Riise, Eirik Sivertsen, Margunn Ebbesen, Willfred Nordlund, Terje Aasland and Kårstein Eidem Løvaas, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the West-Agder states, Odd Omland, is now taking its seat. Three permit applications are available: by the Central Party Group on sick leave of the representative Jenny Klinge from 15 March onwards and until further notice from the Central Party Group on the Welfare Permit of the representative of Mr Geir Adelsten Iversen from 15 March onwards and until further notice from the Røres Storingsgruppe on care leave of the representative of Kent Gudmundsen for the period from 15 March to 22 March
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e193	On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark County: Nancy P. Anti For More and Romesdal County: Geir Inge Line For the Province of Troms: Regina Alexandrova
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e219	Nancy P. Anti, Geir Inge Lien and Regina Alexandrova are present and will take the seat. The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e227	Then I'm going to make a proposal that I think everyone's been waiting for – the press department, etc. It is from the representatives of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Lars Haltbrecken, Nicholas Wilkinson, Freddy André Øvstegård, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself on measures to get the cod back to Oslofjord.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e232	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e238	On behalf of Red, I would like to suggest that Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration Sylvi Listhaug does not have the confidence of Stortinget. In the light of Paragraph 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure, the Stortinget is asked to examine the proposal at its meeting on 20 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e243	The representative of Terje Aasland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e248	I want to promote on behalf of the big business representatives Anette Trettebergstuen, Ingvild Kjerkol and myself a proposal for a representative on balanced power in the value chain for food and groceries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e253	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e260	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Roald Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Roald Hansen is unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e280	On the basis of the announcement made by the President of the United Kingdom on Thursday, 8 March, to resign as President of the United Kingdom, the Storting must elect a new President. The President is asking for proposals to the President of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e290	I am delighted to propose Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e298	Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen has been proposed to the President of Stortinget. Are there any other proposals? - That's not what it looks like. Does anyone ask for the word?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e305	I would like to say on behalf of the Labour Party that we will vote in favour of the proposal on Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen as President of the Stortinget. It's an unusual situation, but it's a common case for the Workers' Party to stand behind that representative, the president's proposal, who has the majority's support. The one chosen here in the hall is also our president. On this occasion, which is then special, I would like to say on behalf of the Workers' Party that we are looking forward to a good cooperation with the new President. So on this occasion I would also like to thank the President for the efforts of the Storting through these years. The matter that led to the President's decision to withdraw, we have debated, the views are known. I want to acknowledge the efforts the President has made. He has been at work, present, and has represented us on many occasions in a way that has been inclusive, and that we have been able to stand behind. I wish the President every success as our colleague and as a representative here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e312	I will also first, in the special situation we are in, be allowed to thank the President-in-Office for the job he has done for the Stortinget and for us as his colleagues. I would also like to recommend the Central Party's big group to vote for Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen as new president, in line with the rules we have laid down. I will also be allowed – a little in advance – to wish the new president good luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e317	Let me, on behalf of the SV Group, first also join in thanking the outgoing President and thanking him for all the good work the President has done, which has recently come under the shadow of the disagreement that has led us to this situation, but which it is important to emphasise today. Thank you for that. Then I would like to thank Højre's big group for a good proposal for a new president, and also wish Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen good luck in advance and ask SV's group to support Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen as the new biggest president.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e324	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President proposes that the President be elected by written voting. - It's passed. The choice had the following result: A total of 154 votes were cast. The President of Stortinget was elected Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen by 152 votes. Two ballots were blank.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e343	Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen is thus elected president of Stortinget, and I will ask her to come up and take over the club. Then I wish you good luck with an important and in many ways demanding work. [[Acclamation in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e358	Thank you very much! I would like to start by thanking you for your confidence in the election today. I hope to be able to carry out this work safely and confidently and lead the work of the Storting in close and good cooperation with all parties on the Stortinget. Thank you. We're going to go to case no. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e376	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group, 5 minutes for parliamentary leaders and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that parliamentary leaders receive an unlimited number of posts and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e387	The Committee has considered Prop. 146 L for 2016-2017 and released its suspension. The legislative proposal is based on the provision of a basis for loss of citizenship as a result of criminal offences and on the vital interests of the nation. This matter has been dealt with in depth several times. The proposal concerns new § 26(a) and § 26(b) of the Civil Code. Paragraph 26(a) deals with the loss of citizenship as a result of criminal offences under the Criminal Code chapters 16, 17 and 18 with a penalty framework of up to six years or more. These infringements are considered to be highly detrimental to the vital interests of the nation, which is a criterion for the loss of citizenship. The majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal for the loss of citizenship on the basis of criminal offences. The Committee has been consulted that the loss of citizenship under this provision is to be regarded as a criminal offence and must be decided upon in court. Paragraph 26(b) deals with the loss of citizenship for the vital interests of the nation. The Government proposes a basis for a person to lose his or her citizenship if, in his or her conduct, he or she is considered to be a serious threat to the vital interests of the nation. In this case, the person need not be convicted. This home is intended as a prevention measure. The government does not regard this as a punishment and wishes for the need to act quickly and to avert any terrorist attacks etc. loss of citizenship under this provision should be carried out administratively. The decision may not be appealed, but the case may be brought before the Court of Justice for a final judgment, where the State bears all the costs. The majority of the Committee does not wish to introduce administrative grounds for withdrawal of citizenship. There is a proposal from the majority that the government should come back with a case that, for whatever reason, the loss of citizenship should be decided by the courts. I assume that the various parties hereafter will elaborate their views on the matter. It seems strange that the majority do not want to introduce a law that allows rapid action to prevent terrorism, through administrative procedures. Legal certainty is an important principle for all parties, and sometimes we all need to set aside some preventive measures to ensure legal certainty, sometimes vice versa. This is a constant balancing exercise, taking into account the legal certainty of potential terrorists and criminals against the security of the nation and its citizens. In this case, it is completely wrong to put legal certainty before the proposed safety measure. The legal certainty of this proposal has been adequately ensured. Other countries in Europe have such provisions, and they have used them. The European Court of Human Rights has dealt with a case from England, and the conclusion is that human rights are right. Those concerned will be given the opportunity to refer the matter to the court afterwards, where the State covers all costs. Based on this, the need to protect us from terrorism in this matter must be given priority first. A Norwegian citizenship will give a potential terrorist more benefits in planning an attack. People who are thought to be such a big threat, we simply don't want them here in the country. That's why we have to take their citizenship and get them expelled. In order to avert a possible terrorist attack, it is obvious that it must be acted quickly, we cannot wait for several months for a judgment in such a situation. In Norway, there are many people who have dual citizenship, but fortunately it will be extremely few that will include this home. The PST suggests that today there may be five to ten people who are considered to be such a serious threat. PST has also said that in a few cases they have been without action and room for action in relation to people who are considered to be a serious threat. The limited potential impact suggests that the measure is targeted. Someone says that since so few can be hit, there's an unnecessary warrant. I will strongly warn against this argument. If such a permit can only avert a single attack, the home is vital to its adoption. The Progress Party will include the proposals we are included in the vote. I hope for a good and factual debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e412	The representative Jon Engen-Helgheim has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e417	We are dealing with a common issue today in the hall. It is important, and it is about changes to the citizenship law. In our position, we agree on the objective that we can take the citizenship of people who pose such a threat as the representative of Engen-Helgheim pointed out, but we disagree a little bit about the means. That's the short version. The Labour Party is on the majority line. We have an effective court in Norway, well to note that the government grants enough money to it. It can then act quickly and make it possible to intervene when necessary and within the framework of the rule of law. Experience, overall, has shown that the fight against terrorism is the best fight against it when it is solid within the framework of the rule of law. Experienced lawyers have stressed that it is possible to argue that the administration can do this without jeopardising the law and the Constitution, but we believe it is right to do it this way, and it can also be effective. But this has triggered a completely different debate – on how we are able to discuss counter-terrorism in our country. What I'm aiming for is that the Minister of Justice, when she got the majority against her, released her Facebook message with a picture of jihadist terrorists with the text "Ap believes the rights of terrorists are more important than the security of the nation". The disagreement in the view on whether the Ministry or the Court are going to deter citizenship, thus motivated Sylvi Listhaug and the representative Helgheim to believe that the Workers' Party is going to run for the terrorists. For that reason, they believe the same thing about the parties Left and Christian People's Party. This is not about a debate between the Progress Party and the Labour Party, as Mrs Solberg said last weekend. Nor is it that the Workers' Party draws the July 22 card or argument, as the State Council Sanner said last weekend. It's about a gross and erroneous claim that frames and hurts and is a total derailment of the debate. Later today, the majority here in the Chamber will express their strong criticism of this message and all it tells of how little the country's Minister of Justice – I want to repeat: Minister of Justice – understands the importance of words, the relationship between attitude and action, the insensitivity to the many who carry wounds after the terror against the Workers' Party on 22 July. We said after July 22 that we should not be naive. It was also about the importance of understanding the relationship between attitude and action, of understanding how words and images can be angled so that they build up into hateful moods. If the Minister of Justice did not understand that such words and pictures would trigger dangerous attitudes, it is in itself serious – it is enough to read the comments below what was on Facebook. In an unworthy performance of insolence and insolence, the Prime Minister, on behalf of the government, has apologized – six days after the announcement was made. We accept that apology, and then we hear what the Minister of Justice has to say here in the Chamber. But let me stay in a different relationship. After July 22nd, it was our strong wish that we could stand together – both to fend for the victims after the terror and stand stronger against terror. If democracy and the rule of law are a strong card in the fight against terrorism, it is even stronger when we stand together. Let me add: for me, it was also helpful for the Workers' Party to engage in a broad settlement on integration and immigration here in the Chamber. It may cost in the form of lost opportunities to mint coins against political opponents, but sometimes the interests of the nation simply have to come first. And then I'm at the point. With this attitude, we have been able to unite in the fight against terrorism, using the whole of society's resource potential, from prevention to the acute end of police, intelligence and surveillance, for uncompromisingly fighting those who use violence. We've basically been together, and we've been able to deal with disagreement in a neat way, like in this case, where we agree on the goal, but something disagrees about the way there. When such a limited disunity — important enough in itself, but in spite of all its limitations — comes out of control with total false, unacceptable and unworthy attacks on the Workers' Party, the Minister of Justice and the Progress Party put the social debate on a dangerous track. There is a gulf in attitudes that we should rather fight, and that weakens the overall front we need in the fight against terrorism. The debate we are about to have is about how we can adopt sensible things. The majority have their position, which will win forward here today, but from the Labour Party side, I am concerned that we are coming back to the track where we can deal with disagreement where we disagree, and stand together where we agree, and not trace off on a road that ultimately also weakens the fight against terrorism in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e436	The purpose of this matter is to secure the Norwegian community. The aim is to prevent terrorist attacks on Norwegian soil. The aim is to find the right means to do this. Today, we are examining the proposals of the Ministry of Justice and Security to introduce provisions of the Civil Code on the loss of citizenship in the event of criminal offences for fundamental national interests. The discussion this past week has not been about it, but about the Minister of Justice Facebook. The reactions have been many and strong, and the Workers' Party has felt particularly affected. The Prime Minister, on behalf of the Government, has complained about the post. The Minister of Justice has said she wants to apologize. As a magnification representative from the Right, I am pleased with that, but I hope now that the focus can also be focused on the discussion on how to combat radicalisation and terror on Norwegian soil. We tolerate a strong discussion of the instruments in the matter of combating terrorism, as in other cases. New measures are needed in the government's action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism. It was submitted in 2014. One of the new proposals is measures on the provision of pensions for the loss of citizenship in the event of criminal offences. It is then a condition that the person has shown a behaviour that is very damaging to Norwegian vital interests. The possibility of loss of citizenship by criminal offences in the interests of fundamental national interests is believed to have a preventative effect in the Right and, in our opinion, will contribute to increased security in Norway. It appears from the bill that the loss of citizenship for reasons of fundamental national interest is not classified as a penalty under the European Court of Human Rights or under the Constitution. The Council of Europe Convention provides that citizenship, inter alia: may be deprived of persons whose conduct is strongly detrimental to the vital interests of the nation or of persons participating in a foreign military force. We call it foreign fighters in Norway. The majority of the Committee supports the introduction of a legal basis for the loss of citizenship by punishment, following a provision with a penalty framework of up to six years or more. Depriving someone from a citizenship is serious, and it requires a particular good reason. It is a majority to be able to deprive persons of Norwegian citizenship in the interests of fundamental national interests. The substance of the dispute and the reasons for the disagreement in this matter are the proposal of the Government that the loss of citizenship may be adopted administratively. The right considers that the importance of efficiency and the availability of rapid action in a critical situation in order to avert a terrorist attack speaks for it. Investigation and judicial review of criminal offences are often time-consuming. The Courts of Justice may fully review the Ministry's assessment of the serious damage or serious damage to Norway caused to the specific act. In the United Kingdom, they have a similar system under which administrative decisions on the loss of citizenship are taken. They have also been tried in the European Court of Human Rights in 2017, where a citizenship was deprived of a terrorist offence. In order to avert a terrorist attack, police authorities need effective tools. Depriving citizenship would be relevant in very special cases and where the person concerned has a appearance that is detrimental to the interests of Norway. The proposal for the administrative loss of citizenship will not be given a majority today, but the Right and the Progressive Party have, in the proceedings in Stortinget, made a proposal to the Government to determine whether a system of prompt judicial proceedings can be established on matters relating to the loss of citizenship in the interests of fundamental national interests. We hope that parties can support this, and thereby invite the other parties to join in supporting such an investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e459	Let me first attach a few words to the matter itself. This is a matter in which the government actually gets through for most of what they have proposed for the Stortinget. This is a matter in which the Committee endorses the government's proposal to be able to lose citizenship when it comes to acts that are detrimental to the vital interests of the country. This is also a matter where the government actually gets a majority to lower the penalties from 21 to 6 years in terms of the kind of possible loss of citizenship. There's one single little point where one separates, and that's the question of how this is going to happen. The majority support the assessment given in NOU 2015: 4, that the loss of citizenship is subject to judicial review, while the government and the minority of the Committee want the loss of citizenship to take place administratively. So most of what we're dealing with today, we're actually in agreement. There's a small part of it where the majority sticks to what was recommended in the NOU, while the minority wants a different treatment. There has been a debate that has been very sharp, and a debate that, in the opinion of the Central Party too, has been a major derailment of the whole matter. What prominent speakers from the Progress Party have put out on Facebook simply represents a very unfortunate form of debate. It is one thing that the case-rapporteur, Mr Engen-Helgheim, has done it, it is one thing that frp.no has done it. What's probably at the heart of this is that the Council of State has done it. Because it's not like we live in alternative state councils. A Council of State is the Government's Council of Government and is on behalf of the Government anyway, whether it is in the Storing or in other contexts. It may also be one of the most important things in this case, that we can't have it so that we have some government councils that say one thing in the Storting and something quite different in the public, and that live in two councils. Actually, we can't have it that way. A Minister of Justice of the Norwegian Government is the Minister of Justice all the time. I also think it is rather important to emphasise this, especially in a situation where we have experienced several cases after each of what I would call the Solar Parliamentaryism, where one has a marked double communication between the parties, whether they are in government, large-scale or in other parts of the public. There are many things that can be said about the debate itself, I just want to say two things: Sometimes the political discussion is only a political discussion. But sometimes political discussion is also about popularism. It does it. This time, the councils of state took a stand out of what we call good folk – simply. I think it is good that the Prime Minister has apologized. I also think it will be interesting to hear today what the Council of State says about it. I'm on the education committee, and we say we're going to teach our kids to apologize – say sorry now and finish the case, we say. It's a good delivery gel for all of us when we've done something that we understand is completely wrong. Then I've also thought a few times in the last few weeks: how hard can it be just to say that this time we went too far – sorry, it wasn't meant to, it wasn't as it should have been – instead of coming with these rounds and crinkle hooks as one comes with, that it's not just us who did it, the Labour Party has also done it, and that might not be exactly what it was supposed to be? Why don't you just say it the way it is, why don't you just say sorry? The political debate had benefited from the fact that we had done it several times — all of us — both apologized and shown good manners. That may be something we should learn from this debate, as well as that we should learn that the country's Minister of Justice is the Minister of Justice all the time and in every respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e478	Combating terrorism is important. That's what SV believes, that's what the government means, that's what the Workers' Party means – that's what everyone means. The issue that is being dealt with today is how we can best protect ourselves from terrorism. It is a demanding debate, with many dilemmas. But rather than taking a substantive debate on that proposal, the country's Minister of Justice chose to use this opportunity to publish a post that crosses a new border in Norwegian policy. The Prime Minister commented that she wished we could have a substantive debate, but that ‘food formulations from both sides of the policy are blocking it right now’. Yesterday, the Prime Minister complained to the Minister of Justice, but her and also her comments from other representatives from the Right in the last few days show that they have been hurting to understand what is the main problem. For the post that was spread by the country's Minister of Justice, it was not just an epiphany; it was a post that can help to gloat under the ideas that fire under the deadly hatred of the Workers' Party that we know is tumbling in our society. And this post was especially because it was not possible to separate it from the rhetoric as a finder of the most conspiracy-theoretic web wars on the outer right. Then it's like most politicians are big in the guise sometimes. It's about Sylvi Listhaug, it's about me, and it's about many others. We can hurt each other, we can exaggerate – it's not good, but it's something else. There is a tumultuous hatred in our society that is dangerous. Among the most popular and hateful conspiracy theories is that the Workers' Party is some kind of traitor who doesn't care about Norway's freedom and security. We know what that hate can lead to. Giving nourishment to it is something very different than taking a little hard on political opponents. So State Councillor Listhaug said that she did not think that attacking the Workers' Party in this way could be linked to July 22nd. Well, then she should think better about it. She said it wasn't her intention to hurt someone. In that case, she should have complained. Today, the Minister of Justice gets a very clear message from Stortinget. It is an unusual reaction, but it is a completely necessary response – a strong warning to the government and a clear message to the Council of State Listhaug that she has behaved in a way that the Stortinget believes is not acceptable to a Norwegian State Council. The last few days have shown that we have a government that can be ruled by right-wing populists, and it should be a cross of thought for decent politicians in the Right and Left. For Sylvi Listhaug does not speak in spite of the government, but on behalf of the government – constantly. And the playoffs are not an accident that affects the government, but a necessary consequence of the political strategy and the political alliance chosen after giving power to the right-wing populists. I look forward to hearing what the Left has to say about this today. They have made clear and exemplary criticisms, and I wonder if they will follow it up at the vote today. If it's not like you're protesting for the world, but you're on your way. Erna Solberg finally apologized. It's a confession that the criticism she first denied was correct. It is adult to apologize, but the handling has shown that we have a much weaker prime minister than many have thought. The very thing we are going to discuss today has come to the fore of this debate. It's a shame, because it's worth a thorough debate, and some of the dilemmas have already been highlighted. It's important to recognise them, and it's important to have respect for the fact that there are dilemmas regardless of what kind of position we take on each proposal. But at that moment of standing up for legal certainty is the same thing as not caring about the nation's security, we've started on a path towards illiberal thought goods that we should all be on guard against. The members of the Municipal Committee shall be allowed to discuss the content, and the representative Karin Andersen will present the SV’s proposal. Then, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party, I will address the proposal we are behind on strong criticism by the Council of State, Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e514	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e519	The biggest task is the welfare of citizens, and the security of every country should be its main task. There are many instruments that politicians can use to achieve this goal, yet we politicians say no to the use of several such instruments. You weigh and weigh different considerations before you land on the right balance. For example, while some people may feel that total monitoring provides more certainty, no court states are in favour of this because they do not want to completely deprive their citizens of their privacy. In the matter under consideration, the crux of the dispute is whether or not the politicians of the Storting want to deprive some criminals and persons who threaten fundamental national interests, their citizenship or not. Everyone agrees that this should be possible, provided that the conditions are met. Everyone agrees. What you disagree about, for example, is: SV wants a 21-year limitation period for criminality. The Right Party and the Progressive Party want the citizenship to be abolished administratively, while the other six of us, the overwhelming majority of the Grand Duchy, that is, all parties except the Right Party and the Advance Party, believe that it is a judge who should be able to do so. That we, that is, all political parties on the Great Britain except the Right and the Advance Party, believe that a judge should decide this, makes us neither blue-eyed nor naive. Nor do we run the terrorists' errands because we want legal proceedings. Nor is it that we or the Workers' Party put the security of terrorists before Norway's security. It's a totally untrue, unacceptable and irresponsible claim. It has been aimed at the Workers' Party, but it has nevertheless been important for me as a Left-Man to say publicly that I have never met a single politician in my life, either from the Workers' Party or from other parties in Norway, who wants to put terrorist security ahead of Norway's security. It is good that both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Knowledge and Integration – and the Minister of Justice, I look at the newspaper.no – now regrets and apologizes. We teach our children to apologize when you do something wrong, and it should not be felt as a major political defeat to apologize – it should be a very good thing to do, and it is good that it is done. Although this famous Facebook post was aimed at the Workers' Party, it might as well have been aimed at several parties here, because it is not just the Workers' Party that requires legal proceedings. We in the Left, the third party of government, have been very clear about the demand for judicial redress. It goes without saying that we cannot have a situation in which the most intrusive action a country can take away from citizenship and, with it, permanently expel a person from Norway and Schengen, can be done administratively. It will erode the point of being a state, the security of citizens – all citizens’ security, including those who may lose their citizenship. Until one is convicted of some criminal offence, until it has been demonstrated that one poses a threat to fundamental national security and national interests, politicians should continue to be equally concerned with the legal certainty of every citizen. I am a former defense lawyer and a police lawyer, and I learned from law school: everyone must be considered innocent in a criminal sense until he is convicted. There is one of the most fundamental things in a democracy, in a state of law. It's the actual bearer in the state of law. The most intrusive measure, to be permanently expelled, we believe in the Left to be decided by an independent court. That should be completely obvious. I would very much like to hear the current Council of State Jan Tore Sanner, who has this as their constitutional responsibility, say something concrete about the following: Does the Council of State understand that we other parties believe that legal proceedings ensure our rule of law? Does the Council of State see that with judicial proceedings, we are ensuring exactly what we are set to do – ensuring the security of our citizens? Will he ask his party, the Right, and possibly the Advance Party, to vote in favour of this subsidiary? It should not be necessary to clarify that, of course, we are all concerned with combating terrorism and taking action to prevent terrorist acts, but I do. We can do this with a court of law, like a very fast one. We in the Left will support the investigation of a rapid court, because it should not be such that a matter remains pending for years. The courts may make this assessment – a proportionate and reasonable assessment – and have the necessary confidence to do so. We must stand together in the fight against terrorism. We must be able to say that we are all concerned about taking action to prevent terrorism. In order to combat terrorism, we need effective action, and we need to stand together politically rather than suspect the motives of other parties. Finally, this provision alone is not going to solve the main problem, how we fight extremism and terror, because it has to do a very long integration work, for example, but we also need to have good intelligence and criminal prosecution. Finally, I would like to say: it must not come to you that the only punishment, for example. Norwegian foreign fighters get, is to be deprived of citizenship in order to keep them out. Being held responsible for their criminal acts, having to stand ready for this, being judged, must be the first track. The next step must be citizenship, but the loss of citizenship should not prevent us from being held responsible for war criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e553	I dare say that everyone in this room is just as sincere in their commitment to terror and to the security of the kingdom. I dare say that everyone has an equal commitment to weakening the fundamental principle of law. This is the case irrespective of the position of the representatives in the matter we are now discussing, whether it is the ministry or the court that is to take away from terrorist citizenship. Let me be as clear as I can: Me, who are representatives in this room, should not question each other's motives. There's none of us that lighted up, and we're all involved in losing it. It will reduce confidence in our political system, and it will reduce confidence in the Storting. It will draw the political debate closer to the level we see in countries where the confidence between position and opposition has disappeared entirely from the political landscape. Most of all, it's about the most Norwegian of all values, the trust between us who live in this society, that we can trust each other, that we don't set groups against each other – call it the important social capital of our society. The Facebook post in the last week about the Workers' Party and terrorists is nothing more than saying that he was innocent, speculative and faulty to a degree that is not a state council worthy, most of all because he saw the most important Norwegian value, trust, under pressure. There is an important reason for the Christian People's Party's involvement in this matter. That is why it was particularly important, and rightly so, that the Prime Minister yesterday clearly apologized through an apology – an excuse without resuscitation. It's an excuse that should be accepted, and I'm glad that the government will also take her into the hall today. Some would say that this is a debate on the debate. Yes, and this time the debate on the debate is particularly important. Responsible State Council Minister for Knowledge and Integration Jan Tore Sanner has witnessed the last week that one of his fellow Councillors has frontline communication from the government in this matter. Obviously, the Council of State listedhaug has cast doubt on the Labour Party's commitment to terrorism, the only party in this Chamber that has been exposed to terror on Norwegian soil. Today, the Stortinget Council of State gives Listhaug strong criticism of her conduct. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, this contributes to a veil and to conspiracy theories, especially directed towards the Workers' Party. Secondly, it's hard to understand how the government has allowed a council to face the matter this way. And thirdly, a belief, as Jan Arild Snoen has said so eloquently, that ‘if the Minister of Justice, who in normal circumstances also means the Government, believed that a majority on the Grand Council put the rights of terrorists ahead of the security of the nation, it had to be of importance to the will to sit in government and take responsibility for this policy’. The song is quoted in the Evening Post by Torstein Ulsrød, which says: «The fact that the use of words is completely disconnected from such realities shows only that the play to Listhaug has no factual content.» The council was out on Tuesday evening and said she didn't want to hurt anyone, and she understood that was exactly what she had done. She said she was sorry for that. But why didn't she immediately choose to remove the reason why so many have known about the article last Friday? Yesterday, on the other hand, a foundation attached to the copyright of the image was removed. The Council of State should perhaps worry more about the copyright of the power it has been delegated as the Council of State, namely the plurality that exists in the Stortinget. There is every reason to be critical of the communications of the Council of State, Listhaug. I must say that the Council of State has not shown wisdom – he has been absent. I hope she can use the wisdom when she gets the word in this room in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e570	In Norway, for three years, we have had a minister who has contributed to a debate and a form of debate that I believe is harmful to us in Norwegian society through strong attacks on individuals and groups. It's become an aggression and an angle that helps bring up values many of us take a great distance from. We remember all the debates on ‘good governance’, on ‘golden chairs’, and that Hareide was accused of ‘imamsleiking’ – and now this last, of the fact that the Workers’ Party is more concerned with the legal security of terrorists than with the security of the nation. This is as copied from the pattern plan to a certain American president, who has learned how to spin the media and people's attention around their own conflict-making performances, and who are used to deliberately dominate public space by playing on hangings and scandals. The Minister of Justice's last shot from Saturday must in this case be directed at the majority of us on the Stortinget, not just the Workers' Party. We are a majority here today who do not agree with the Minister of Justice that citizenship can be waived without legal proceedings. There are good emergency court solutions that ensure the security and security of citizens better than the Right and the Progress Party proposals. The problem is that the Minister of Justice insists that the majority of people elected are most concerned with protecting terrorists. It is difficult not to be supported by such an attitude, even for those of us who were not personally affected, or even lost any of our loved ones on July 22. Some of the problem with a minister who comes with new and repeated, extreme play becomes like the shepherd boy who called out the wolf. A lot of people don't belong anymore. The ears are closing. It's like Trump: the playbacks are going to be so many, and they go over again and again what we thought was possible would come from that edge. But many people don't want to be equally shocked every time, they don't have any energy for it, and then you close your ears. We'll be numbered. It's a dangerous road. It creates contempt, passivity, and proclamation from democratic processes. So by not showing resistance to such extreme statements, it can be seen as accepted, and then we all share in moving the limits of the debate and attitudes of our society. We here in this room have chosen this job, because we want to change something, because we want to be part of and shape the future we're going to live in. We do not have the same objectives, nor do we have the same means, but we should work together for a political system, a political dialogue and a political governance that does not happen through false accusations on Twitter and Facebook. We should expect government councils to be held accountable for what they say, and a government council to speak on behalf of the government. The Prime Minister made a settlement with Listhaug after the ‘imamsleiling’, and yesterday the Prime Minister asked for an apology on behalf of the government. It can't just be Storting's confidence that's starting to fade away. I think the Prime Minister is also starting to lose patience. The Green Party has therefore delivered a question-time question to the Prime Minister on this issue, because this is a broader issue than just the Facebook article that is mentioned. This is a very serious matter, with ring-effects far beyond the proposed and debated legal paragraph. The Greens fully support the Date Decision. We want a government talking to one tongue. We don't have that today. And where the responsibility lies, it should be sunny.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e585	Action against acts of terrorism and the protection of national interests are questions we should never take lightly. I therefore find it disappointing that, rather than presenting measures that could weaken the pit of extremism and strengthen integration, the government is making proposals that are at best symbolic policies and, in the worst case, have a negative impact on crime, extremism and integration. Red stands together with the majority in Stortinget for legal certainty, equality of law and policies that work. Much indicates that the government's proposal takes us in the wrong direction in these areas. The Association of Lawyers considers that the proposal may deprive Norwegian citizens of the protection of expulsion and, in addition, may have a completely arbitrary verdict. Two persons with identical family ties may be associated with Norway, one of whom, in accordance with the requirements of the Norwegian authorities, has renounced a previous citizenship in order to obtain Norwegian citizenship, while the other still has two nationalities. Only the latter, on the government's proposal, will be able to be deprived of citizenship. In addition, the police already have the possibility of withdrawing passports for people they fear will commit crime while travelling abroad. Police may also detain persons who have committed or are planning terrorism. In addition, we know that there are very few people who have double citizenship in Norway, that the number of people with double citizenship who are potential terrorists is even lower, and that the number of potential terrorists with double citizenship who can be captured by the police and lose citizenship is very close to zero. And as we all know, Anders Behring Breivik had only one citizenship. We lack clear answers from the government to important questions. Will sending offenders to other countries potentially without as strong legal and criminal institutions as ours increase security for Norwegian citizens and secure our national interests? Is the threat greatest from those who receive punishment and rehabilitation here to land, or can the motive for revenge increase from those who are in another country after being deprived of citizenship? In the NOU on the recent loss of Norwegian citizenship, it is assessed that proposals to abolish citizenship may lead to increased mistrust of public authorities. MiRA Resource Centre has warned that changes to the laws on the loss of citizenship can increase radicalisation and that the proposal itself can weaken the individual's belonging and loyalty to Norway and weaken an integration policy that actually works. Red chooses to listen to these objections and therefore opposes the proposed amendment, while voting in favour of the SV's proposal for an increased penalty limit in order to exclude citizenship and of the Committee's proposal for a decision not to be decided by Sylvi Listhaug, but that the loss of citizenship requires the decision of the courts. The country's Minister of Justice, as several have pointed out, has accused the Workers' Party and also the majority of the Storting to put the interests of terrorists at risk of national security. This isn't true. If that were true, it would have hit Listhaug himself, as mulla Krekar is in the country even though the Progress Party has been in government for several years. But it's also completely unacceptable as a claim of other parties. Listhaug has not used the chance she has got to withdraw this false and unacceptable accusation. On the other hand, she has been responsible for image rights and has also been tired of some of them being hurt. She has not reverted to the accusation that the majority of the Stortinge place the rights of terrorists on the grounds of nation security. One place there must be a limit. It's been trodden over by Listhaug. It must have consequences. That is why the Red Starring majority is asking what is probably the reality of the Storting, namely that the Minister of Justice does not have the confidence of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e606	I am here as the responsible state council for the matter Changes to the Civil Code. I have also received a mandate from the Prime Minister. She has asked that on behalf of the government I give an unreserved apology to those we have hurt with our communication on the matter. It's important to me and the government that this apology be given from the Parliament's pulpit. Everyone is responsible for the political change of words. Political leaders bear the greatest responsibility. The debate of the last few days has shown that the use of images, rhetoric and formulations has hurt many. I'm sorry about that. 22 July was a terrible terrorist incident for all in Norway, but especially for the AUF, the Workers' Party and others directly affected. Communication that connects terror and the Workers' Party has, understandably, produced strong reactions and feelings. It has made a deep impression on us to see and hear the reactions of the survivors and the survivors from the Utøya. We can't take back words and pictures, but we can apologize. We can learn from it, and we can contribute to a better climate of debate in the future. Norwegian policy is at its best when we discuss matters and content with respect for each other's different points of view, and we all avoid attaching opinions and opinions to each other. The aim of the legislative proposal we are discussing today is to secure Norwegian society in the face of the threat of terror and other threats. We're all behind this goal. There is also a broad consensus that we should stay within the fundamental principles of the rule of law and ensure legal certainty. Citizenship in Norway is valuable and must be high. Depriving some citizenship is serious and requires specific sound justification. The government's proposal involves two institutions to exclude some Norwegian citizenship, both of which are very well-founded. In the proposal for a new Section 26(a), citizenship may be deprived of persons convicted of acts such as genocide, crimes against humanity, violations of Norway’s independence and acts of terrorism. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee subscribes to this proposal. Persons who are not convicted of criminal acts may also pose a serious threat to our fundamental national interests. The PST and the State Attorney point out in their hearing that few persons may be involved, but that the possibility of depriving them of citizenship may prove to be absolutely essential in some cases. That is why we are proposing a separate provision on the loss of citizenship in the interests of fundamental national interests. However, if such a provision is to provide us with adequate protection, it must be possible to implement the decision quickly. The Government has therefore proposed that decisions be taken administratively. The United Kingdom has a similar system and was tried for the European Court of Human Rights in 2017, where a citizenship was deprived of a terrorist suspect. The Court found that it was a legitimate order and decision. We have also provided stronger guarantees of legal certainty in these cases, including: by means of better arrangements to have their case tried before the Court than is the case in other cases. I recognise that it is a demanding balance with various dilemmas we face, but I believe that the government's proposal takes care of both security and legal certainty. Since there is no majority of administrative decisions in these cases, the Progress Party and the Right have also made proposals to investigate a rapid judicial procedure. It's my hope that a majority can join that compromise.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e625	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e630	Council of State Sanner is Minister of Integration, but he is also Minister of Knowledge. I think we can be some that truth and truth are not equal in the public debate. The truth and the facts are the premise and the basic plan in a fairly reasonable conversation. For this reason, I would like to know what troubling and instrumental means he, as Minister of Knowledge, will fight against false and dangerous conspiracy theories attaching himself, when he is at the same time in a government with a Minister of Justice who spreads the very conspiracy theory that the Labour Party is more concerned with protecting terrorists than protecting our own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e635	Firstly, I believe that we all have a responsibility to fight conspiracy theories, hate speech, violence and extremism. The school, as our main common arena, is important for combating that kind of attitude and promoting positive attitudes. The good thing is that when I travel around the schools, I meet reflective students who use the educational programs that have been developed, among other things. what is called Dembra, democratic preparedness for racism, anti-Semitism and undemocratic attitudes, and which show clear and clear positions. It promises good for the future. I think it is important that we all feel a responsibility to fight extremism and conspiracy theories, and of course we, political leaders, have the greatest responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e642	I feel that the Council of State relativises responsibility when he says that we all have a responsibility. They're the ones who spread the conspiracy theories, asking for the greatest responsibility. Then it is they who legitimise it, who ask for the second greatest responsibility. I also asked what the state council was going to do. He told me about travel and contact he had had with various schools and talked nice about it. It's okay to listen, but I'm looking for the policy tools that he's going to use. I mean, for example. knowledge of our own close history and the attack on July 22 is very important – not only the attack itself, but also the ideology behind it, the hatred behind it, the conspiracy theories behind the attack on July 22nd. How will the Council of State – as Minister of Knowledge – ensure that the close history is also part of our common knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e649	It's an important question, and I can tell you that I've given a mission to the Education Directorate that our close story and how the terror of July 22nd is going to be part of the school education. In addition, I work closely with the support group after July 22nd and the AUF, where we also discuss how we can look at the unique opportunity we have to create a learning venue between where it happened in the government quarter, to where young people went from the Kaia in Hole Municipality and too few returned, and on the Ut Island. I'm concerned that we're going to see how we can develop a good learning venue, so that both today's and tomorrow's young people get to know it, and not least that we're all going to make a deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e654	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for his apology. It was important, it was necessary, and it was in place. I have to be allowed to thank for that. A number of questions have been asked during the examination of this matter to the various departments. One of them turned around, among others. on the provision of legal aid for the preparation of a proposal relating to judicial proceedings. Unfortunately, the Council of State could not answer that question. The question then is, what kind of assessment does the Ministry have as to whether there must be an investigation in place before it can possibly be decided that there should be judicial proceedings of something as serious as excluding anyone from citizenship?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e661	When we're going to make laws, it has to be properly investigated. And that's what we have to deal with. That is the reason why the Department was unable to provide legal assistance in such a short time. But what we have said, through the proposal that the Right and the Progressive Party have now tabled as a subsidiary proposal, and which I hope can bring together a majority today, is that we can quickly investigate and come back to the Grand Duchy with a proposal for a rapid court. I believe that we also respond to the concern that some people have. I have recognised – also from the pulpit – that this is a dilemma we have faced. It's not that one answer is completely correct and unproblematic, and the other is completely wrong. I have said that these are dilemmas and that we have come to one conclusion. If we can get together on a high-speed court, I believe that we are caring for the concern that has come from a majority on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e667	The effects are not clear, according to those who have made assessments in the Ministry of the effects of losing citizenship. The Councils of State have inter alia: responsibility for integration, and it is closely linked to combating radicalisation. When the proposal to be able to deprive persons of citizenship was put forward jointly in this Chamber, it could be valuable to hear what the Council of State has considered in view of the possible negative consequences of excluding someone from citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e672	Here we have given the most emphasis to the views expressed by the National Lawyers' Office and the PST, which have pointed out that this may be a very necessary tool in a few specific cases. You can also reason along a different dimension, but we've put the greatest emphasis on the points of view that came from the PST and the State Attorney's Office, which have pointed out that there are not many, but that there may be a few, and then this could be a very necessary tool. Let me also point out that it is not unique that Stortinget gives the department that kind of authority. In 2013, the Stortinget adopted amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act for the treatment of security matters. These changes meant that the Department could draw the conclusion at first instance, and in particular the Stortinget stressed that it would ensure faster and more effective treatment. It is a parallel to the proposal we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e679	It is good that the Council of State has today apologized for the clearly hurting and totally unreasonable allegations made by the Minister of Justice of this government. I hear that Sanner understands that it was hurtful and unreasonable, and that there was someone who had been hit very seriously by terror. On the other hand, what I miss in Councillor Sanner's excuse or justification is whether he understands that the kind of communication also nourishes the conspiracy theories that flourish in the far right and that can be found in a rich monn in the Minister of Justice's comment field or in the comments field of the Progress Party. Does the Council acknowledge that this is the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e686	I have today made an apology on behalf of the government – an unreserved apology – with a background in the communication, because we see that it has hurt many. It's been important to express it. I think we should all be careful about assigning motives or attitudes to each other we don't have. It's also important in this. The Minister of Justice has been very clear about what she did not want with this, and I think it is important that we do not attach motives or attitudes to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e691	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e696	There has been a lot of debate about the post I posted on Friday. I am happy to have this opportunity to respond to the violent criticism that has been in the past week. My idea with the post was just to discuss the proposal that is being discussed in Stortinget now. It was never – never – in my mind that this could be linked to the cruel massacre that was on Utøya, which struck so many innocent people and Norwegian democracy. It was neither my intention nor my intention to hurt anyone, and I really hope to be believed in. The reason why this was published that day was that the setting from Stortinget was known late in the evening before. The timing was wrong because many of these days go to cinema to see – after what I have been described – a very strong film about what happened in 2011. I have great sympathy for the survivors who lost their loved ones on Utøya, and all those who experienced the cruel terror that struck Norway in 2011. I also understand that the film helps to reinforce the feelings about what happened. This debate has made me aware, and I think it is reprehensible that people who have experienced the terror on Utøya have received threats – such as Tarjei Bech, who gets the question: Why didn't you die? – It hurts me. I can't believe people make themselves say that. Those who do this should know that they have no support in me. The fight against terrorism and radicalisation has been, and is, a very important matter for this government. We have strengthened the preparedness in Norway in recent years to start building an emergency centre, follow up on the July 22 message and strengthen the police security service. We're going to continue this job because we see that we still need to secure ourselves against different dangers. I apologize to those who feel hurt by the communication in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e711	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e716	I mean, it's people's custom to accept an apology – I do – but this doesn't last. The council doesn't testify to knowing what this is all about. She says the communication has hit, the film has whipped up moods. And she can't believe that people react by sending messages to Tarjei Bech, for example – and there are hundreds of others. It is a concern that the Council of State does not understand that the kind of notification, as she says, was just an input into the debate on citizenship, could trigger such attitudes. So the thing here, also for Council Sanner, is that it's not the communication it's about, it's the content of the communication. It's about what these words and words and words and images trigger from reactions and attitudes. That is what disturbs people and shows that it is a short way from attitude to action. So my question is, is the Council of State standing by the contents of what she said? Does she believe that the Workers' Party is more concerned with the legal security of terrorists than with the security of the nation of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e725	That status applied to an individual matter. Of course, I believe that everyone in this room is concerned about our safety. So there will be, in some individual cases, different shades of how you think it's best to take care of. But I think it's important to say that I never took on the basis of any attitudes that would suggest that this article should be interpreted in such a way, but I see in retrospect that it has been. And I'm sorry about that. I have no need and wish that this should negate under attitudes towards the Workers' Party or others. I think there are attitudes that need to be combated in Norway, and I want to do my part to make sure we do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e732	Furthermore, this was the case with the specific case. But does the Council of State Listhaug believe that the Workers' Party in this matter is more concerned with the legal security of terrorists than with the security of the nation, that this majority in favour of being able to deprive citizenship through a prompt judicial process is more concerned with the legal certainty of terrorists? I find it alarming that a councillor, who is an experienced debater, and before she became a state councilman a well-paid communications adviser, doesn't understand when she sees her different plays, reads her different comment fields, that it's just the reactions that come, and that she now almost skyfalls say that it's almost unreal for her to see these reactions and outcomes. It's not the first time. Then I think the Prime Minister has a big problem. We accept the excuses, but we have very little assurance that those excuses actually apply. Because then the council must understand that when she says this, these attitudes come. That's what worries us when we've seen how it's a short way from attitude to action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e739	I believe that we must have a political debate on difficult issues as well. I believe that it is important for me to apologize on this matter because I did not see that this could be connected to what happened on July 22nd, and that this then helped to hurt people. It was really, really not my intention. That's why it's important for me, as I've said several times now, to apologize. I do, and I hope that you can believe that I don't want to contribute to the attitudes you've taken up here today. I really don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e751	With all due respect – this does not last. I cannot hear that the Council of State apologizes directly for what she has caused. I hear that she apologizes for someone who has felt bored, but it does not hold on to this matter. It shows all of the enquiries we've been given about the content here. I hope the Council of State can give an unreserved apology, for this matter had served. I also believe that the council and the government had earned it. I want to ask the Council of State: is it so that she is tired, that she understands that she went too far, and that she actually accepts that there is a large majority in this Chamber who believe that as Minister of Justice you cannot make such statements in social media or in other contexts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e758	I see that this has become a debate on a completely different basis than what was my starting point, and I think it is a pity that it is shadowing the important political debate that is, and should be, in this matter. I believe I have given an unreserved apology. I am sorry to have hurt those who experience this difficult, and I am concerned that these excuses are accepted by Stortinget. I don't know what more I can do. I've said I'm sorry, and I hope to be believed that's actually something I mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e765	I believe in the council when she says she means this, but I'm also concerned that the council takes inward that it's not the intention, but the function that's important here. When the Council of State says that she cannot understand how someone can get to send the kind of messages she mentioned, I would say that the important thing is that the Council of State is trying to understand why it is. I think a good place to start is a thorough study of your own comment field on Facebook. That would be informative. State councils are known not to come out of conversation. I want to know exactly what it is the Council of State apologizes for. To apologize for how people perceive it is one thing, it's not that important. I would like a clear yes or no answer to the following: Does the Council apologise for posting the current post on Facebook last Friday?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e772	I have said that I think it is a pity that it has been perceived as being out there. That the debate has taken this turn was not something I wanted. That's why I apologized for letting out that post.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e777	We've had two excuses in this room in the last 15 minutes. But there's a completely different way that Council of State Sanner apologizes to me than I feel that Council of State Listhaug is doing in this room right now. Yes, we hear an excuse that the council has wounded people, but is it also an excuse for the content that was posted on Facebook last Friday? That's what made so many people feel hurt. Therefore, my question is quite simply: Is it that when the Council of State says that it provides an excuse without any rest, it applies both to her having wounds, as she has said several times, and to the content of what was posted on Facebook last Friday?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e782	I perceive that I have agreed to both. I think it is a pity that we have not had a substantive debate on what this matter is about, because I think it is an important topic. It's about potential terrorists who can do a lot of damage in Norway. There may be people who have joined groupings like the Islamic State, Al Qaida and others. I think it is a pity that this debate is overshadowed, and I have given an unreserved apology on the points that I feel that the representative Hareide is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e789	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e794	The legislative proposal of the Municipal Committee is concerned with combating radicalisation, violent extremism and criteria for the loss of citizenship. It is the legal state itself that is being attacked when terrorists are making their own mistakes. It's the rule of law that's supposed to defend us against them. If you are a foreign warrior, accused of genocide or terrorism, it is important for the Workers' Party that you lose your Norwegian citizenship if you have two. This is the result of the court proceedings, as there are criminal offences that must be the basis for the loss. Everyone agrees, but the Labour Party, SV, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left do not support the Right and the Progress Party's proposal that the loss of citizenship in the interests of fundamental national interests should take place by an administrative decision. We believe that this can only happen in court. When the Right and Advance Party want the job as both actor, jury and judge, the Stortinget says no. A majority of the Grand Duchy does not wish to grant such powers. Judicial States do not fall into one piece. Those that fall are bit by bit. Taking administrative decisions on citizenship is such a piece. What the Right Party and the Advance Party are proposing is to make our rule of law less, so that it will be easier to defend. They obviously don't see the irony in that they're building down what they say they're building up. The size must be more principleal and long-term in its assessment of this matter than the government turns out to be. The majority of the Grand Duchy does not agree that it is the administration of the Government which is required to take decisions on the loss of citizenship. It's too intrusive. The representative of Engen-Helgheim has on several occasions compared this to the fact that the police can take away your driving licence. It's very unjealous. Citizenship has entered the heart of the nation-state. It's a visible proof of who you are, and where you belong, a sign that you carry the rights managed in this room, the right to vote in elections, to go in and out of the realm. Depriving someone of a citizenship is a very radical act. It is an action that we must take only when it is absolutely necessary – and right. The Court of Justice is the instrument of the rule of law. If you're in Norway planning terror, and the police think it's a probability balance that you want to implement the plans, you'll be put behind lockdown and hit. Whether or not you are deprived of your citizenship is not decisive. The Workers' Party asked for legal assistance to ensure judicial redress in this case. We haven't got that. That is why we are promoting a loose proposal in the Chamber today, together with the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, asking the government to come back with proposals for the loss of citizenship in the interests of fundamental national interests and for such losses to be decided by the Court of Justice. The Right Party and the Progressive Party propose that they seek urgent judicial proceedings. Of course, the government is welcome to investigate quick tracks. Government parties don't have to ask Stortinget for permission to do this. Of course, if the government wants a quick court hearing and makes suggestions on how this should be done, we will support it. That is why we will be voting in favour of the proposal to speed up court proceedings in the Chamber today. But I would like to point out that it is funny that the Right Party and the Advance Party need us to adopt a directive, so that the government will do something the Workers' Party has asked for, and not received. This case has received a lot of publicity and has been characterized by heated rhetoric. The Labour Party has been accused of running terrorists' cases when we call about the principles and institutions of the rule of law. In this room the heads must be cool and the words carefully weighed. Our decisions are not suffrages. They're the laws of the country. With this I address the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e813	The representative Siri Gåsemyr Staalese then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e818	The proposal to introduce a legal framework to deprive persons of their Norwegian citizenship when they have committed criminal offences challenging fundamental national interests is based on the NOU 2015:4 Loss of Norwegian citizenship. The government points to the legislative proposal as a follow-up to the Action Plan against radicalisation and violent extremism of 2014. In the March 2015 public inquiry by the government, it was concluded that loss of citizenship must be regarded as punishment under the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, and that it must therefore be imposed by the courts. It was also recommended that the loss of citizenship be linked to the terrorist regime and to the rules on crimes against the government, genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. The investigation included: that there was only a breach of provisions with a 21-year penalty framework that would lead to the loss of citizenship. Part of the mandate for NOU 2015:4 was to illustrate how and to what extent loss of citizenship could contribute to the prevention of terrorism and radicalisation. The conclusions of the assessments made were that the loss of citizenship would restrict access by foreign fighters to Norway, but on the other hand increase the threat to Norwegian interests abroad. A negative consequence is that it becomes more difficult for Norwegian authorities to control the activities of the former foreign national. It was also raised doubts as to whether the loss of citizenship would appear preventative or radicalising. It states that the rules may work against their purpose by adversely affecting cooperation between authorities and Muslim communities. The Centre Party, together with the other parties to the Committee, has concluded that it is correct and necessary to use the loss of citizenship as a response to acts and behaviour which are strongly detrimental to the vital interests of the country. The introduction of a new rule of law into the national law will apply to persons holding double citizenship. The loss of citizenship shall not be used as a reaction form until the person is 18 years old, nor shall it be used in cases where it would be disproportionate to the person himself or to his family. Of course, in matters relating to children, the best interests of the child should be fundamental. The Committee endorses the Government's proposals in these areas. As far as the majority is concerned, the proposal to lower the penalty framework for the loss of citizenship, from 21 years of age, proposed in the public investigation, to 6 years, proposed by the Right Party and the Progressive Party of Government. This is the view of the majority that it is right to strengthen the possibility of depriving people who threaten the security of the state, their Norwegian citizenship. In one area, we are separating layers with the government and with the minority from the Right Party and the Advance Party of the Committee. This applies to the majority’s support for the assessment given that the loss of citizenship is to be judged by the courts. The Government, on the other hand, and the minority of the Committee consider that the loss of citizenship shall be capable of administrative adoption. In recent days, the Committee’s configuration has been subject to media playback and Facebook comments. Yes, so far the debate has gone, that what was a discussion about citizenship, in today's newscasts ended up as a discussion about passports, among other things. at NRK. This makes the debate not exactly elucidating for the ordinary elector, and necessarily not clarifying for the members of the Storting. There is an overall committee which will strengthen the provisions of the Civil Code by introducing new provisions allowing persons to lose their Norwegian citizenship by, as it says, ‘promotion strongly to the detriment of’ the vital interests of the country. We agree that Norway must resort to stronger instruments against terrorist planning, illegal war participation and which pose a threat to its security. What we disagree about is how to treat as strong reactions as loss of citizenship. The majority follow the advice given by the government body itself. I am sure that we are on a safe basis in this conclusion. The members of the government parties from the Right and the Advance Party, among other things, put forward proposals asking the Government ‘to determine whether a system of prompt judicial review can be established on matters relating to the loss of citizenship in the interests of fundamental national interests’. The central party believes that it is important that matters relating to the protection of national security are dealt with effectively and rapidly in the judiciary. I assume that this is a matter that the government is following up, regardless of decisions in the Storting, when we now decide the law on how to deal with cases of loss of citizenship. Nevertheless: I record that you need to ask for an investigation of a rapid court. It shall, of course, contribute to the broad majority of the Centre, if that is what government parties need in order to launch such an investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e842	First of all, I would like to say that it was not the timing of the Minister of Justice's Facebook post that was wrong. It was wrong. It was an error in the content. It was a mistake in accusations, and it was wrong in substance in relation to the case we are dealing with here today. The purpose of the terrorists is to divide us, is to provoke us, to produce counter-reactions that break down the legal state we have built up. They want chaos – the opposite of democracy and the rule of law. SV believes that terrorism must be combated on many fronts, but if someone is a terrorist and the authorities know it, they obviously need to be investigated, arrested, sentenced and imprisoned. I see no certainty that someone loses a citizenship so as to be closed out of the country. Anyone who reads the NOU on the basis of the legislative proposal we are debating today sees that there are many heavy arguments that there may be a risk of doing so. It is important when we deal with this matter, that we go into what is the purpose. SV has done so, and we are going in to follow up the provisions submitted in NOU 2015:4 that the government ordered. This means that you can be deprived of citizenship by the most serious crimes under the cap of criminal law. 16, 17 and 18. These are crimes that are so serious and appear to be so shocking that they are going to run counter to the general sense of justice of those who are behind these acts to retain their Norwegian citizenship when they already have another. The government's proposals go far beyond these recommendations both in terms of the criminal framework and in terms of excluding someone from citizenship without criminal law. I would draw your attention to the hearing opinion that we received from the National Institute for Human Rights on the matter, where they point out that States with similar arrangements proposed in the proposal have in general made a claim that the action qualifying for loss of citizenship must be punishable by criminal law. Of course, in most cases it'll be like this. It is important that we do not set aside the principles of the rule of law to defend the rule of law. Here, the investigation that the government has launched has warned against using the space of action we have in full. That Council follows SV. Then there is a discussion about the preventative effect such rules may have. The investigation then says that there is a very limited amount of experience in the countries that have done this, and it may be related to the fact that acts of terrorism tend to spring out of strong ideological or religious convictions. Faith itself does not have to be extreme, but the individual's willingness to do extreme acts to affect society. We've seen that in a lot of things. If you're willing to be suicide bombs, it's probably hardly a loss of citizenship is the threat that doesn't make you do it. There it is that you have to have intelligence. You have to make sure that those people who have this in mind, who you suspect have this in mind, are actually arrested, accused and convicted. I would like to address the proposal that SV has made in the vote. Finally, I would like to mention that the debate has argued that this provision should apply to the foreign wars that are now in Syria. Then I would ask those representatives who believe it, read the proposition on page 53, where it says that this can only apply to events that occur after the entry into force and publication, as is otherwise in Norway, that no law should have retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e861	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e866	To the bill of dates: The debate comes from a facebook post from the Minister of Justice, a facebook post with a totally untimely claim directed against the Labour Party – totally untimely. It is not my words, but the words of the Minister of Culture and the leader of the party in the Left Party. It's quite unusual that a sitting state council takes such a clear distance from the announcements to another state council. It is also quite unusual for the Council of State responsible for one matter in the Storting, in this case Minister of Knowledge and Integration Jan Tore Sanner, to mention the announcements to another Council of State in the same matter as unacceptable. Finally, it is quite unusual for the Prime Minister, on behalf of the government, to ask for a reason for the appointment of a Council of State, a cause that has now been repeated by the Council of State of Sanner from the Spokesman of Storting. All of this is most unusual and, after the Left's view, most necessary. Today, the Minister of Justice himself has asked for cause in Stortinget. It's completely in place. The left side won't support the date suggestion that will be adopted today. At the same time, I need to say that I find it understandable that such a decision will be taken. I argued that the seriousness of the matter with it is emphatically underlined, both in the hall here and in the public. We all have a responsibility to contribute to a public change of words where we talk about each other with respect and do not suspect the motives of each other. It applies in particular to members of the government. On behalf of the Left, I believe that in the future we will not find ourselves in a situation where the Prime Minister must ask for a reason on behalf of the government of the opposition and the Norwegian people, as the Prime Minister has done in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e881	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e886	Listen to this: Empty rhetoric from the Workers' Party when they promised a strict immigration policy. Now they don't even want to get in the way of terrorists. This is from a coordinated reading by representatives Engen-Helgheim and Ørmen Johnsen who were on the press on 9 March, the day after the Progress Party interview on Dagsrevyen on 8 March – i.e. not only from the Progress Party but also from the Right. This is a coordinated attack by the government against the Workers' Party, consciously and in agreement. Firstly, this issue is not about immigration policy, but rather about immigration policy. This shows that political games are most important to this government. It's sad. Discussions on counter-terrorism shall not be part of a political game. It's about the security of the nation and its inhabitants. We're not going to make fake and constructed images and make people insecure. Security shall be the main task of the Storting – regardless of the political colour of the 169 in national Parliaments, Stortinget shall work together to combat terrorism. And let it be clear: the Labour Party will take, punish and deprive terrorists of citizenship. Later today, the Stortinget will deal with a case of coercive measures, of persons who have been expelled but who have not been sent out to the government and who may harm our fundamental national interests, that the police should be able to determine where they live, reporting obligations, in controlled forms. It's intrusive, but necessary. I am the case rapporteur for that matter. It's about people like, for example, Crickets. For the Workers' Party, when the government is unable to expel people like him, we need tools to prevent them from recruiting, building up networks and radicalising dangerous elements in our society. That's why I'm cursed when political games are more important than working together in Stortinget, and when you accuse the Norwegian Labour Party of thinking about the woes of terrorists, the party that has always had and will always have security for everyone as its foremost project. Norway is the world's foremost democratic, equal and free country. This is about long-term policy. This is about social democratic policy for a long time. Norway is not becoming more certain that our leading political leaders are more concerned with political games and indecent attacks that hurt people and nerds under hatred and anger. It is a deliberate strategy of our Minister of Justice and the government that divides this country. What makes me proud of being Norwegian and Norwegian politics is that we've been historically united on Norwegian security policy. It's about the nation's interests and security. We live in a troubled time, and the fight against terrorism is not a political game, but a shared responsibility for Norway and for the security of our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e899	The President would say that "sint" is a word that might dress this pulpit better than "cursed".
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e904	This bill, which was promoted before the Left joined the government, raises several issues that we cannot easily deal with. Let me, before I elaborate on it, make it clear that we are all concerned with combating terrorism and taking action to prevent terrorist acts on Norwegian soil and elsewhere in the world. However, the disagreement lies in what measures we consider to be the most effective, and not only politicians, but also researchers in this area have shared opinions on this. Citizenship is very high, and the threshold for calling it back shall be high. There are situations in which recall is both correct and necessary, and the Left therefore supports the introduction of a permit for the loss of citizenship in criminal matters on the basis of the fact that he has acted strongly to the detriment of Norway’s vital interests. In such cases, loss of citizenship will be regarded as a loss of rights and shall be imposed by the courts. The use of this home must be reserved for the most serious cases. The left opposes the proposal to exclude persons who are not convicted of a criminal offence from their citizenship by administrative decision. The fundamental national interests are best taken into account when such an assessment is made by the courts. It has been claimed that administrative authorisation has been tried in other countries. However, there is no evidence that such a permit has had an intended effect, nor can it be considered that persons cease to be a threat to national interests at the moment they are deprived of citizenship. An unintended effect may be increased radicalisation with increased threat to Norway. The debate concluded that there are 5 to 10 persons with dual citizenship who will be affected by this measure. You have to ask yourself if this is symbol politics. My 82-year-old father has had some problems changing property after death in the family in Pakistan. I asked him if he could not now imagine applying for Pakistani citizenship, so that it would be easier for him to change. "No," he said spontaneously. ‘I’m afraid to lose my Norwegian citizenship and to be expelled.’ That’s the fear of low penalties, up to six years, as proposed, creates even law-abiding pensioners with a limited life span. We must therefore be aware that the choice of citizenship can become a choice in the future in order to ensure basic security for ourselves and their families, and not a choice as to which nation you feel most strongly attached to. Judicial proceedings ensure compliance with the requirements of the Constitution and the International Conventions, and will also ensure that the process towards the loss of citizenship is governed by applicable legislation in this area and not by varying political views and flows.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e919	On Friday the film had premiered on July 22nd. It had the subtitle "72 minutes that changed us forever". And Norway changed. Many of those who were future to our country were lost. Norway was changed for all those who each day feel at rest or the pain of visible and invisible wounds. But the political debate did not change very much. The insurrection with the hatred that killed never came, for then it could not have been possible for the Minister of Justice the same day to share the message she did. Sylvi Listhaug knew exactly what she was doing, and what forces she fired when she fed the web with conspiracy theories and hateful rhetoric. It's just to take a look at the comment field under her own post. One writes that Breivik had a point. Another writes that ABB was right in assessing how dangerous the Workers' Party is. For us who saw too well the price of terror, it's bad to read – not because we get bored, or because we think it hurts, but because we know how dangerous this is. Because it was just conspiracy theory that the Workers' Party supported Islamist terror, which was the ideas that killed on July 22. We knew that these ideas were found in the darkest rooms – now they are spread by the country's Minister of Justice. But for us, it wasn't really the worst thing to see Listhaug, because we have no expectations of what she can think of saying. The worst thing was to see the reactions this got. The Prime Minister's first comment was that this was a dispute between the Workers' Party and the Progress Party. The Minister of Knowledge believed that the Workers' Party used the July 22 card. He directed himself to say that we used July 22 as an argument, but to be honest, it wasn't that trace better. Fabian Stag followed up by saying, ‘It’s completely unworthy that some of us in politics mention July 22 as an argument for our own vision.’ What are you trying to say? That those who have known the terror are not entitled to participate in the debate? For almost a week, Councillor Listhaug has been holding on as she pleases, while representatives from Right Desperate have tried to normalize it. It's something that's changed in Norwegian politics. There's no longer any lower limit to what a state council can say. I think we've never seen such a ghastly attack from a state council in Northern Europe. This is not about rhetoric, but it is about politics. I'd like to admit, this past week I've had a lot of feelings. I've been incredibly sorry that the relationship I thought we had was no longer there. I've been scared to see what kind of attitudes are spreading. I've been angry to see what kind of attitudes the Minister of Justice is agreeing to whip up. But fortunately, I also know the struggle and motivation to fight for the values that are at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e934	It's an important matter we're dealing with today, and it's very gratifying that the government is getting multiple numbers for it all, most of all in this case. There will be greater security here in Norway, even if we do not get multiples for everything – and not for the part that is responsible for the administrative loss of citizenship, even if the PST and the State Attorney have recommended such a solution. Last year, PST said that about 100 IS warriors and forward-looking warriors had ties to Norway, and it's clearly a challenge when PST calls for us to also look at these rules. In an expulsion case before the law, there was a man who was convicted in Afghanistan of planning a suicide attack against ISAF and American forces in Kabul. PST believed that this person, with his presence in Norway, could represent a future risk against fundamental national interests. Such a person should have maybe taken his citizenship from, and not have to wait months for a verdict. He was a major risk, and he's doomed. So he doesn't have Norwegian citizenship. It is important that we have the possibility to prevent damage – as an example of this. The loss of citizenship also makes expulsion possible. It will prevent the use of Norwegian passports in terrorism. Hence, this matter is important. Then it was very happy to hear from Abid Q. Raja from the Left that they would support the proposal to issue a rapid court. It was also very good to hear the representative Siri Gåsemyr Staalese from the Workers' Party, who also supports the government's issuing of the Quick Court. I think that if the government manages to create a good system that allows us to get convicted people much faster than today, much of the loss will result in us not having an administrative system, perhaps being replaced and corrected, if we get a good solution to this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e943	Let me start by saying thank you to Councillor Sanner, who, in my opinion, solved the mission he had received from the Prime Minister to ask an unreserved apology on behalf of the government, in an excellent way. I thank you for that. The disagreement in this case is about who is to be able to assess whether anyone poses such a fundamental threat to the interests of the nation that they may be deprived of citizenship as a preventive measure. There is a clear, principled distinction between what the government has proposed and what the majority in the European Parliament is in favour of. The Ministry has assessed this — no one contests, with reference to the United Kingdom — to be within the framework of the rule of law and within the framework of human rights. Nor has it been the case that the government has not assessed whether a court judgment could be appropriate. The Ministry itself writes that it can speak in favour of a court judgment, that it would just strengthen the legitimacy of the decisions if it had been left to the courts instead of an administrative decision. But as I see both the proposition and the arguments on the matter here in the Chamber today, the government places the decisive emphasis on rapid and effective treatment. So we're not talking – as the representative Trellevik did, I think he was talking – about getting people convicted, but about making an assessment. What has been crucial for the Workers' Party when we fell down on the desire to have legal proceedings, is to lift this out of the administrative apparatus, with both police and prosecution authorities, and to have an independent assessment of whether there is a likelihood of a likelihood of a breach, thereby strengthening legal certainty, and that we are sure that the assessment is correct. We don't have any problems with a healthy courtroom. What we're concerned about is that the courts should work quickly and efficiently, and it's quite obvious that it should work according to purpose, it can't go months and years, as some representatives mentioned here. The government should be able to investigate this in the light of the proposal we are making, together with others – who have a majority – to have a court order, but only to make it clear that we agree that it will take place quickly, we will vote in favour of the proposal put forward by the Right and the Progress Party. Let me then use the last seconds on the Council of State Listhaug: As we have heard here today, she has said that she wants a substantive debate, and she has been given repeated opportunities to apologize for the content of the post she had on Facebook. The Council of State has not made that clear. And trust in this Council of State's handling of the matter, the confidence of the country's Minister of Justice, is not strengthened after the conduct I've seen in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e958	Of course, I'm glad that we get a majority of the content of the case. There is evidence that for all batches it is recognised that these are important issues which are also important in preventing possible terrorism. But I don't agree that it's a small and unimportant matter that we disagree on; it's about a difference that goes to court versus administrative treatment. The reason why there's a big difference is that it could potentially help to determine whether we can avert a possible terrorist attack or not. That's why it's so important. It's, as I've been up to before, a balance sheet for all, the balance between legal certainty and the security of the population. We believe that the majority have landed on the wrong side in terms of the balance in this matter. It seems that there is a misunderstanding that has emerged so far in the debate, because there are not a few people in Norway with double citizenship. More than half of those who have been granted Norwegian citizenship in recent years also retain their old age. That's a lot of people. But fortunately, very few people could have been hit by this, and it's a good sign that this is targeted. The chances of hitting innocents are low. Then the majority has now agreed to support the proposal of the government parties on a rapid court, and I interpret that as a concession of the Workers' Party and the others who have joined in to support it, that it is actually important to deal with these matters quickly. It is an important point, as the Progress Party and the Right have made, that this must be done quickly to protect society from terror. Then, of course, I'm glad they're going in for it. They have not agreed to this proposal before, but it is good that they come now, at last little, and realize that it is so important for the security of the nation that this needs to be dealt with quickly. Just that was the intention of the government when we presented this. Now this can be a good thing when the government has re-examined it and come forward with a rapid court, which allows us to put the safety of the nation in the high seat while ensuring legal certainty in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e970	First, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Minister of Justice on deciding about the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister, according to several media, told the Council of State to delete the Facebook post and regret it. It didn't happen. State Council Listhaug correctly deleted it, with the following reason, as it fit Sylvi Listhaug, not when it fit Erna Solberg. Sylvi Listhaug wrote on Facebook: ‘I have now deleted the article [[...]] The Minister of Justice of Norway did not delete it because she regrets it. She did not erase because she had spread falsehood. She did not delete because she had upset an entire generation of survivors after an attack on Norwegian soil, carried out by a Norwegian man. They didn't react because they were hurt, they didn't react from what movie goes on. They reacted because it's not true. The Labour Party does not care about terrorists because of our country. The post was deleted because the Minister of Justice was taken to steal. I would like to hear the Minister of Justice explain to her that it was necessary to complain, not that she did not have the right to the picture, but that what stood there, just did not vote. Then, of course, I expect the complaint to be repeated on Facebook. If the Minister of Justice needs a text proposal, I can now give it to her: I am sorry that I wrongly claimed that the party that has been subjected to terror is more concerned with protecting terrorists than our country. That was not true. Like and part.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e982	The loss of citizenship allows for a decision to be taken not only from Norway but from the whole Schengen area. So where there are families with children involved, the decision will also most affect them. A thorough proportionality assessment and a reasonable assessment must be carried out in these cases. The courts have experience in making such assessments and have the necessary confidence and independence to take the decisions. Then I must point out that social responsibility involves more than being able to expel criminals or persons suspected of being a risk to the security of the state. This must be handled by the prosecution authorities in the same way as if they had been ethnically Norwegian. Norway has a responsibility for those born and growing up in Norway and becoming criminals. Both punishment and rehabilitation should be the responsibility of Norway, including those with a distant minority background. There are already children in Norway who do not know their parents’ country of origin and their culture. If any of these were to risk being expelled, it would act as a substitute for prison or other forms of rehabilitation. It is possible that initial expulsion will be a clean legal process, but it may change rapidly. Much of the foreign administration is based on judgement and instructions. The disadvantage of administrative decisions is that they can also be protected for the public. By contrast, legal proceedings are public. Now, when we go in for two new institutions to withdraw citizenship, I want to clarify what is highlighted by several, that the threshold should be high, and that this should apply in a few cases. In the defence of the liberal rule of law, we must not resort to and take action challenging the rule of law. On the contrary, we must hurry slowly and stick to the principles of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e993	I record that not everyone has experienced this as an unreserved apology. That is why I would like to emphasise once again that I offer an unreserved apology in this matter. I should not post this post, and I will contribute to a substantive debate in the future. I apologize for the communication in this case because it has hurt people who have experienced the cruel terror on July 22nd. With that, I hope you believe me that I actually mean it from the bottom of my heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e998	The centre party has considered that it is important that matters relating to the protection of national security should be dealt with promptly and effectively in the judiciary. Legal certainty must be ensured, but this does not mean that proceedings in the judicial system must be suspended on time. Now, the Department and, most recently, the Sanner State Council have actually warned against judicial proceedings against the loss of citizenship, but, at the same time, the Sanner Government Council has insisted that a proposal be made for rapid court proceedings and that this should be investigated. That is in the best interests and the Central Party shall support it, but it is in particular necessary to ask for such a decision to be taken by the Government in order to undertake such an investigation. Speakers of the Progressive Party have claimed that the majority’s conclusion that the loss of citizenship will be the subject of judicial proceedings will be to open the country to terrorists and to jeopardize people’s lives and health. Let me underline: everyone in this room is concerned about people's lives and health, and we're all concerned that we should not have more terror on Norwegian soil and otherwise counteract it in other parts of the world. It seems to me that some have not been so careful in the reading of what is said by the government-appointed committee that has investigated the matter. It may be so, but I think it is alarming that the Progress Party has been so little concerned with protecting the principles of the rule of law, as the representative, Mr Engen-Helgheim, was. At the same time, I should like to pay tribute to the fact that the representative was at least concerned with the matter. That's very cool. I appreciate that we have managed to draw the debate into what it is about, the principle and how we should possibly dissuade someone from citizenship. Whether it seems preventative or not, there are shared opinions about, but I think it's important to stress that the whole thing that the committee has landed on is that it seems preventative to take away some citizenship. What we disagree about is the procedure. There are a number of other ways to prevent terror, which I hope will be sufficient. If that is not enough, I look forward to a matter from the government that goes through all the other elements that can help prevent terrorism, including, among other things, terrorism. how to act as the Council of State in public space and how to contribute as politicians to a more nuanced and proper debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1009	Now the state council as a sail thinks she's good at calling a spade for a spade, once again being up and thinking that there's someone else's perception there's something wrong with it. It's not that. It's because it takes a lot of days, because it takes the boss many days, because it takes a lot of rounds here, where you kind of have to be dragged around to realize that you're going to say, "I'm sorry, it's wrong, it's not true. Because that's what it was. I have also not heard the council of state with one word touching the conspiracy theories that flourish on her website, and on which she knows she breathes. Several people here today have been up and said: I'm not afraid of Listhaug, I'm not hurt because Listhaug says something stupid. One is afraid because one has experienced the reality of terror, which argues in the same way as others in the comment field on the Council's websites. I'm sorry, but I don't believe in the excuse. So to the matter: I want to ask the state council Sanner to come up and clarify whether that is the case with the foreign wars that are now in Syria, and that have been used as an argument in this case, that the actions they have committed would be affected by this law. Is it such that this law applies retroactively in those cases, or is it not?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1020	State Council Listhaug is trying to clarify. It's useful, and I have to follow it up. What I now experience is that Councillor Listhaug says that she should not post the post – that is an excuse for publishing it – and she apologizes for the communication. She asks to be believed in and believes from the bottom of her heart that she is tired of people being hurt. I choose to believe her and accept that apology. But what we now have to clarify is if the Council of State means what she actually said. At the moment we are here in the Chamber, there is something out in the Official Journal of the Drammen, something from the representative of Engen-Helgheim of the Progress Party, where he says: It is established that the Workers' Party places the legal security of terrorists before the security of the nation. It's a fact. Does the Council of State share that view? Does she still mean what she wrote in that Facebook post, that the Labour Party's attitude in this matter threatens the nation's security? That's what we need to know. This is now called the so-called communication – it has become a collective concept. What we have now received are three different types of excuses: the Prime Minister's apology on behalf of the government, which is behind all the councils, Sanner's apology that communication has wounded Utøya victims, and Sylvi Listhaug's apology, where she asks to be believed that she never meant to hurt anyone. But the core of this, the message they sent out, she has not commented. If we do not get a clarification on this, we must go back to the Prime Minister and ask: does the Prime Minister support the statement that the Labour Party's position here - with the majority in the Chamber - threatens the security of the nation? This is more than semantics and rhetoric. These are very serious questions and accusations – and now I am not talking on behalf of my party, but on behalf of the great majority of the population – and if we have a council of states dealing with this matter to the majority, that she believes that the majority put the legal certainty of terrorists before the security of the nation, there is a very serious situation in a parliamentary manner where the majority is involved. So I have to know: is it a fact, as the representative of Engen-Helgheim now says, that the Workers' Party places the legal certainty of terrorists before the security of the nation? Then I mean not just the Working Party, but the whole hall. Is that a fact? Is it still the opinion of the Council of State, or does she now say that she does not mean it, and that it was not only wrong to post that post, but that the content of the post was also wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1033	First, I have to say to the content of the matter itself that it may be a little paradoxical that this will end up becoming more agreeable than we have ever been throughout the committee reading, because if there is a large majority today to also investigate the establishment of a rapid court, there will be a very broad consensus in the Stortinget. This is not the case, as the rapporteur said, that someone wanted a late treatment. It is the question of whether there should be administrative or judicial proceedings at the heart of the debate. I appreciate the excuses that have come, but I also have to address some of the uncertainties associated with it. My helpful advice to the government is that one goes all the way and apologizes for everything – not only because one has hurt someone, not just for the communication in the matter, but also for the content of what has been put out, so one also says sorry that one has actually said that the Workers' Party puts the legal certainty of the terrorists ahead of the interests of the nation, for the content of what has been said. I think it would be wise – unless the government leaves behind an unfortunate ambiguity that one must gradually help to solve. With today's treatment of the content of the matter itself, what was put out is more untrue than ever, because it is almost not going to be divergent views in the matter when we vote over it at the end of the meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1040	It is good that the Council of State comes with a clearer excuse for those who are injured. We believe that. We've never believed that the government's intention was to hurt someone. The problem is that the government's intention instead was to whip up an atmosphere that she and the Progress Party could earn. And that's what's why we're still asking for clarity, despite being said sorry several times. For the heart of the matter is not the intentions of Sylvi Listhaug, the core of the matter is the function of this kind of play in contributing to polarization, division and the most serious of all: to gloat under conspiracy theories that we know are dangerous, for example. the fact that the Workers' Party does not really care about the security of the country. It's beyond having sharp contradictions, or harsh use of words, and over in what must be a completely unacceptable way of talking about political opponents. Therefore, it has been necessary for us to ask for clearer answers to what the Council of State is apologizing for. And I have to say that even though it is good that the Council of State apologizes to those she has hurt, after this debate the question of whether the Council of State really understands how dangerous it is to gloat under the conspiracy theories that exist about the Workers' Party, and whether the government has a plan to make sure it never happens again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1047	When I am made aware of what is in Drammen's Official Journal, I have to check. I have been in contact with Drammen's magazine in the morning today and I am sorry that messages have been posted on my Facebook page, by me, which was not correct. If the journalist has managed to write something other than that, I have sent him a message that he has to write what I said. I've tried to explain that the balance sheet I talked about in my first post is the one that's important here, because there's always a balance sheet. The Progress Party also places legal certainty before other preventive measures in many cases, and it is quite right to do so, but in this case we believe it was wrong. The working party does not in any way endanger the safety of the nation. No party on the Storting has any intention of jeopardizing the security of the nation through what they say, or the policy they pursue. It's a game that I'm taking away from, and if it's been perceived as being serious, I'm sorry, because I don't mean it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1056	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the apology is accepted. It is clear that everyone in this room – all parties – is concerned with the security of the state. Of course, the Workers' Party does not threaten the security of the nation. There are different views on this issue, and unfortunately it has come very into the background during the debate. All parties on the Storting want to fight terror, but sometimes one may disagree about the means for it. Therefore, in the unreserved apology, of course, there is also an excuse for the content.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1061	On the sixth day it begins to approach. What the press representative, Mr. Engen-Helgheim, says is a fact, so he's now taking a great distance from it. So then – just to be ready for it – it is that the claim that he has also had lying out on Facebook day after day, day out and day in, correct without illustration, and that at the same time in today's newspaper has been made as a fact, he does not believe, he regrets that he has written it. That's how it has to be understood. I want to ask the Council of State one more time – because now she says the apology is accepted. Well, I've said it doesn't last, as it's said. She says there are different views on this matter which unfortunately have come to the background of this debate. I agree with what the representative Arnstad said, that the views are very little different in this matter. Here, in the best of Norwegian tradition, we have drawn close to an opinion that is quite agreed, and we can gather around a fast track so that the courts can do the job, if the Council of State can also grant the money. But I have to ask the last question to the Council of State, Listhaug. She gets the chance to go up here and say about the same thing as the representative of Engen-Helgheim. What she posted on her Facebook page, she apologizes for the content of, and she no longer believes what was in that text. And question two, which concerns the representative Lysbakken asked questions, is, does she see that the kind of imagery and text neighs up under attitudes out there that we should stand together to fight? If we are against the online role and against the dangerous trends and to combat the link between dangerous attitudes and actions, we must be careful to publish the type of Facebook messages that the Council of State did six days ago. I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1073	I believe I have several times now offered an unreserved apology. It's also about the text. And, of course, I don't want to negate under attitudes like what is described here. That's why I want to apologize if that's the case – and that's it. So I want to be careful about putting out those kinds of games on my Facebook page ahead, of course, and will contribute to a neat debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1078	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1094	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1103	Now we're going to deal with two propositions, Prop. 148 L for 2016-2017 and Prop 33 L for 2017-2018. There is a 144-page setting - there is a lot of reading. In its proposal, the Ministry proposes that Norway follow the same model as many other countries in Europe, by carrying out the property survey as a professional private service. According to the proposal, the reform will contribute to increased competition, faster and more efficient services for users and the development of a new consultancy for property services. There shall be free pricing on measurement transactions instead of municipal fees that are currently charged, and the payment will reflect more closely the actual costs of performing the specific service, according to the proposition. The Government also proposes that the responsible surveyor with authorisation be responsible for the survey and that it be carried out in accordance with the law and regulations of good land surveyors. Furthermore, it is proposed that the training requirement should be at the bachelor's level, three years, and that there should be a period of practice of at least two years. In order to maintain the authorisation, surveyors must take a certain number of hours of training per year and refer to, for example: such an arrangement as the real estate agents have. The Ministry believes that flexible initial authorisation solutions need to be provided, and a large proportion of municipal practitioners also expect to have the necessary real skills. The Ministry further proposes that these practitioners be authorised in line with new practitioners even if they do not meet the requirements of formal competence. The Committee points out that a majority of the hearing bodies are positive about the introduction of formal competence requirements. The Committee draws attention, inter alia, to: NITO’s consultation call, which states that the time is ripe to formalise the commitment to competence made in the context of the implementation of the Matrikkel law, essentially in the direction of the municipalities. The majority do not support the government’s proposal on free pricing for measuring operations. The majority of the Committee, i.e. the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party, believe that the matriculation is a clear authority task which should be organised as a public administration task. The majority indicate that a large majority of the hearing bodies argue for the continuation of the day’s model, where municipalities are responsible for both the property survey and the property registration, and that this is closely linked. The majority support these assessments and believe that municipalities must be responsible for the recording of property information together with the responsibility for the property survey. On the basis of this, the majority will not support the government's proposals. The Committee points out that the government's proposal for a distinction between measurement such as the provision of services and the provision of food as a management task has an impact on the complaint mechanism. The majority – again the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party – indicate that they are opposed to the government's proposal for such a distinction, so that the administrative appeal system is maintained as it is today. The Committee supports the other government proposals, which do not address the organisational issue. The majority do not support the government’s proposals related to the organisational issue and otherwise refer to the majority’s overall legislative proposals. Thus, the majority do not support the government’s proposal to privatize surveyors’ tasks, nor does it support the distinction between surveying and recording. The majority believe that this is an important overall task, which is still to be carried out in an overall framework. Then a small correction has to be made. If we don't have to deal with this a third time, and we have to try to avoid that. I'll try to get this fairly understandable. We have been made aware of the fact that in the proposal for a law in the committee's recommendation there is a so-called orthographic error, which then needs to be corrected: the proposal for the last sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 states the 'central matricle governing authority' – with an a in the end. Norwegian law shall be ‘central matricle steering power’ — without a final a. This has no material or material significance for the rest, so I'm just suggesting that the decision be in line with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1120	Then the representative has fixed the write error in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1125	In Norway, we have a proud tradition that most people own their own homes. In fact, 80 pst lives. by us in a dwelling owned by the household itself. It's a very good tradition, and one of the reasons it's that when people own property, it helps spread power. Since there are so many people who own their own land, the question of surveying is also too many. It is relevant for those who are to separate part of their garden to sell to the neighbor, it is relevant for the property developer to enter a completely new housing block, it is relevant for the business community to develop new properties and create new jobs, and it is relevant for municipalities and county municipalities that own large properties to be managed in a good way, and in particular for building new roads in the municipalities. The municipal monopoly on surveying has existed for a long time, but it is not in itself an argument that it should always be. Unfortunately, too many people today experience that there is too long waiting time to deal with their property survey cases. In fact, in some municipalities there are several hundred days longer waiting time than in the neighbouring municipality. It has something to say for people, for businesses and for the municipalities themselves. Property developers feel that they are not getting enough coherence during the project period. Several would have wanted them to be able to obtain a prior clarification of existing property, measurement technical assistance and, finally, to provide comprehensive and effective help with submission. They don't get that with the system we have today. There are so many people who experience that they do not actually pay for the service they buy, because you do not have a free-forming market. It is mainly people and businesses who are losing on the fact that the organisation of property surveys is not optimal. It is time for us to think anew, for us to abolish the municipal monopoly, and it is time for us to have a free-at-price system. This could contribute to a whole new industry with more flexible and efficient organisation. It would give us increased competition, faster services and more efficient services for users. This would have contributed to more value creation by enabling one and the same surveyor company to have assisted the developers throughout the project period and to provide faster clarifications and better progress in the projects. The proposal would also have a socio-economic benefit of 650 million. NOK over 20 years. If the municipalities were no longer obliged to carry out the property survey, it would not be natural for the municipalities to be obliged to be responsible for the property registration. That is also why the government proposes to transfer that responsibility to the State Maps. It would have made work more efficient, ensured uniform guidance and therefore also increased the quality of the matrix. Having said that, I am pleased that a total accumulation today seems to end up regarding the government's proposal for both training and authorization of surveyors. It's going to give better quality – to the best of people. There are a lot of municipalities doing a good job with the property survey today. They would still have been allowed to provide the services in the future if the government's proposal had been adopted today. The abolition of a municipal monopoly does not mean that municipalities are prohibited from offering surveying. Municipalities that had a desire to operate surveying would still be allowed to do so — if they were then used by people and businesses to run a survey. But today, a majority in the United Kingdom seems to be afraid that the municipalities will be out of competition. The fear of competition is bad news for people and businesses that need more competition to create better services for people. With this, I address the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1146	The representative Mari Holm Lønseth has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1151	In this proposition, the Government proposes that Norway follow the same model as in many other countries in Europe, by carrying out property surveys as a professional private service. This will contribute to increased competition, faster and more efficient services for users and the development of a new consultancy industry. The idea was free pricing for measuring stores instead of municipal fees as today. The payment will then reflect more closely the actual costs. The proposal facilitates the more flexible organisation of both municipal and private surveyors who can provide such services on equal terms. As a result, real estate measurement will no longer be a statutory task for the municipalities. Municipalities may, as long as they wish, offer measurement. Municipalities that choose to maintain their surveyor’s offer will be free to provide their services in other municipalities. A responsible surveyor with authorisation shall be responsible for carrying out the survey in accordance with laws, regulations and administrative provisions and in accordance with good surveyor practice. He does not have to do all the tasks himself, but is responsible. The surveyor shall take care of the interests of all parties to the surveying business. The authorisation will oblige the responsible surveyor to act neutrally and the surveyor may lose the authorisation if he does not. The Government proposes that the training requirement be of three years' duration and of a minimum period of two years' experience. Retraining is also required. When measuring business is no longer to be a statutory task for the municipalities, the task is proposed to be transferred to the Staten Kartverk, which is currently responsible for the management and organisation of the matrix. Municipalities who so desire shall be able to retain property information in the matrix when they have sufficient capacity and professional competence. Municipalities shall continue to be responsible for keeping information on buildings and addresses in the matrix. Fees for data recording shall follow common national rates in accordance with fees rules laid down in the Central Regulation. Menon Economics AS, on behalf of the Ministry, has carried out a socio-economic analysis of the consultation proposal. In the report, Menon expects the measure to be socially viable. Today's system is not necessarily neutral, as the municipality itself is often party to the cases as the landowner. The amendment may allow users to obtain prices from several suppliers, both private and public, and to choose a supplier based on price, delivery time and competence. Price formation will thus be fairer and a more realistic price-to-real cost relationship will be established, i.e. a very general way of thinking, as for most other goods and services. There are huge price differences across municipalities today. Those who are most affected by this are those who are always most affected, namely those who have the least. At the other end, owners of larger land, such as farmers in agriculture, forestry and cabin development, are affected. This is both unfortunate and hostile to districts, and it will defuse and delay the development of land. There are also large differences between treatment periods across municipal borders. For several municipalities, the average waiting time is over a hundred days longer than in neighbouring municipalities. This is unfortunate for the development of property and value creation in general. I note that the proposition contains a number of changes supported by an overall committee, with the exception of the issue of property surveying being a private service and with a new form of organisation. The Progress Party also supports this, as we believe that overall it will provide us with a better and more flexible offer for the benefit of all parties. We know that competition works, and we know that interaction between public and private works.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1176	The Ministry is not supported by its proposal that property measurement should no longer be a statutory responsibility for the municipalities, but a competitive service based on private services. Nor is the proposal that the Swedish State Cartel Agency should assume the responsibilities of the municipality for the management and organisation of the matricle. The legislative proposal has not done well, shows the consultation that has been carried out. Out of 204 hearing bodies which expressed their opinion on the proposal to organise property surveys as private services, a total of 178 went against the proposal, while the government received support in 26 hearing opinions. It is worth noting that it was far from just the municipalities that went against the government's proposal. The opposition comes from professional bodies such as the land change rights, from stakeholder organisations such as the Association of Lawyers and the Association of Norway, from professional organisations organising surveyors and not least from municipalities. It is now to be added that the government proposes that municipalities which wish to do so should continue to be able to offer property surveys in competition with private service providers. However, this does not affect the opinions delivered. The county of Hedmark points out that the government's proposals will weaken the communities' environments of competence and that the level of costs is likely to increase where there are inconclusive ownership and border history. Stateman, President! The rights of land change point to the danger that municipalities will lose the necessary competence, that the reform will not contribute to better quality assurance, and that there is a risk that a private surveyor will be perceived as a representative of the party. So it was the land change rights. It is worth noting that the local authorities' resistance to the privatisation of the property survey is continuous both from small and large municipalities, regardless of who is in charge. Bergen believes that the interaction between urban planning, property rights and construction matters will be confused if the property element is removed from the responsibility of the municipalities. In Oslo, it cannot be seen that the consultation proposal proves that measuring matters will go faster, and Oslo is just one of the areas pointed to by the lack of surveyors. In the Krødsherade municipality, it is shown that in the vicinity of this municipality there is one private company that has carried out property measurements. Consequently, competition could not be achieved, with the consequences it will have for pricing. Furthermore, the municipality says that if it is only left with the decision part and registration of addresses and buildings, many of today's work tasks are lost, which weakens the ability to recruit and take care of skilled professionals. Other, including: The Association of Lawyers is critical to the proposal because the price of services may be higher through the free formation of prices in the market. The Centre Party is pleased that the majority of the Committee has listened more to the municipalities, professional authorities and stakeholder organisations than to the Ministry of this matter. The Ministry's proposal to privatise the property survey and to deprive the municipalities of an important task will fall if the Storting follows the committee's position. I understand the many people who have asked questions about the logic of the government's proposal to relieve the municipalities of an important task at a time when there is otherwise talk of moving more tasks from state to municipality. It is probably related to the fact that, after all, the outsourcing of competition is a more important element of government party ideology than local democracy and equivalent services in all parts of the country. To establish that property measurement and matriculation remain a statutory task of authority for the municipalities is the most important in this case. However, the proposition also addresses other issues that are important for discussion, such as the costs of the services performed, and whether stricter requirements of competence should be imposed on those performing the service. The fees levied for measuring and feeding shall reflect the costs of performing the services. The proposal refers to the fact that the fee regulation is usually laid down in the context of the municipal budgetary procedure and that current legislation allows for the use of standard fees, in order to make cross-subsidies between different types of tasks. The majority of the Committee does not support the Ministry's proposal on free pricing for measurement services. The claim that this would provide reasonable services is a claim from the Ministry that many have little faith in. The hearing bodies are afraid that the opposite may occur, and that there may be large price differences depending on where you live. The centre party emphasises that measurement services are to be priced on a self-cost basis, as are the rules for VAR services provided by municipalities. We also stress the need to ensure that there is not a large degree of cross-subsidisation between the different measurement tasks and the entry of the matrix. It has been included in the configuration of the Committee. In the proposition, the government proposes an authorisation scheme. It is proposed that a bachelor level training requirement and that establishments carrying out surveying must have at least one responsible surveyor authorised at each office site. The department's assumptions about privatisation of services are not being followed up. It will still be the municipalities that are responsible. However, the majority of the Committee welcomes the introduction of a competence requirement to improve the quality of the matrix.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1208	There is no need to add this much from SV. I join the post from both the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. It is just a brief comment that this matter has been at the hearing, and that the hearing bodies have totally rejected the allegations made by the government in the matter. The claim that this should provide a better quality is difficult to understand as something other than a political desire to open up another field for privatisation and to mutilate professional environments where we otherwise say that we want to strengthen them. So it's hard to understand the arguments of the government parties in this case, when it's so thoroughly refuted also in the hearings. The second thing I need to stress is that SV also supports these skills and education requirements. It's important that it comes in, but it's also important to keep the community and the good trade unions together and make sure that it's quality. It's a political responsibility. It is very strange in these debates to sit and listen to the fact that quality cannot be guaranteed when it is the government that governs it. It's a very strange view to have from those who are in the public sector, whether it's in the municipality or state. We have to be able to do that. That has to be the assumption for most of what we're doing, that we're able to control the things we're doing, so that it becomes necessary quality on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1215	I have a pragmatic approach to what is to be done by the public, and what might as well have been done by private actors. The control question has to be whether it benefits the user out there. There is such a pragmatic approach to the Christian People's Party once again: surveying and matriculation should still be part of municipal responsibility, for this is the exercise of authority. Then a question was raised as to whether we who believe this are afraid of competition. No, but we believe that today's system is the best. What is behind the term ‘land survey’ must not be understood just as the technical part of the job in the field. This is an overall procedure under the law on mating and the holding of a measuring shop. The survey itself is only a small part of the municipality's work on a surveying business. It's this whole government proposition that will break up by abolishing the municipal monopoly. Surveying is the exercise of authority, and there are several advantages to its continued performance by the public. It will be particularly important in those cases where there are disputes or uncertainties as to where the property limits go. Neutrality in the fact that a public official also carries out field work can solve many minor issues on the ground. There are many examples of ambiguities about borders being solved without conflict there and then, for the benefit of all parties. It is also a good social economy and a good private economy. Large differences in fees can easily be resolved by a cost principle. Several municipalities today choose to subsidise the measurement fees in order to become attractive municipalities to establish themselves in. There are also price differences, but it can hardly be called unlucky. Section 1 of the Matrikkel Act states: ‘Lova shall ensure access to important information on ownership by keeping a separate and reliable register of all immovable property in the country and by clarifying boundaries and ownership conditions.’;» [[matrix]] This can, of course, also be achieved with the amendments proposed, but there is a major risk that the whole of the measuring business will be lost. Synergy effects are also significant in municipalities with a view to maintaining surveying competence and detailed knowledge of the matrix in their own municipality. There is no point in repairing something that works well. At present, the services provided by the municipality are of high quality, and much of the reason for their trust and quality is that today’s practice ensures a whole range of services. There are few complaints, and the scheme ensures that the parties on both sides of the property boundary relate to a neutral person. We therefore oppose both the abolition of the municipal monopoly and the centralisation of the property of the matricle, as proposed by the government. In the Christian People's Party, we have the principle of subsidiarity as one of our guiding principles. It suggests that this task should remain a task of authority in the municipalities and that the exercise and the property of the matrix should be followed. In terms of competence and authorisation requirements, we are fully in line with the government, like the committee. However, a very liberal transitional regime is important, so that unqualified surveyors experience unnecessary and unworthy separation. The most important thing is to put this into a system for new surveyors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1248	The matter today is a follow-up of Stortinget’s request decision to the government in March 2016. Land measurement is both about calculating map coordinates and about being able to put two lines below the answer. But it's also about jus. The parties may have a totally different view of where a boundary is going and may oppose each other in an incompatible way. It cannot solve the calculation of map coordinates, but neither can the municipality do as administrative body. Disputes about property must be settled by the parties themselves or with the assistance of the court. The municipality shall also be careful to provide legal advice to parties in a conflict of private law. In Norway, property surveying has been a responsibility of the municipalities. Others have solved this differently. Several have it as a professional service, e.g. magazines in Denmark. Other countries, such as Sweden, have organised the task more in the direction of legal land change, primarily as a state responsibility. The government therefore proposes to organise the property survey as a professional service also in Norway. The proposal will contribute to the development of a new sector of property. It will make it easier, faster and more efficient to carry out property surveys and development projects. At the same time, the Government proposes to transfer responsibility for the management of property information to the State at the Swedish Cartel Office. This part of the proposal is a direct consequence of the main proposal for a new organisation of property surveys. When local authorities are no longer required to have a legal liability for property measurement, they should also have no legal liability for property registration. The recording will be too small a task for many municipalities when measuring and keeping records apart. In addition, central registration will contribute to a more comprehensive food labelling system for the whole country, which in turn will have an impact on the quality of the food. Several municipalities want, inter alia: the mapping of major and complex issues such as land change and roads. The Government proposes the introduction of an authorisation system for property surveyors to ensure the competence and thereby improve the quality of the matrix. The setting shows that there is disagreement on the organisational issue, but agreement on the implementation of an authorisation scheme. The Ministry will now immediately begin to develop supplementary provisions for the authorisation system in close dialogue with municipalities and surveyors. We need to find appropriate transitional arrangements adapted to the vast majority of serious practitioners, regardless of whether their competence is based on formal education or relevant practice. Property registration is an important infrastructure in society. In that case, the actors must have predictable frameworks. I'm recording that we don't get a majority to organize the property survey as a professional service. I still think it would have been the best solution. Firstly, it would open up to a new industry in the property market, and we would get more players, which would contribute to competition. Secondly, it is demanding for municipalities to have such a great responsibility for a service that changes very quickly. As in several other areas, the population is asking for digital solutions to the services provided by municipalities, and there is a great need for a digital boost in property surveys. However, I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Committee on the continuation of amendments from the proposal that is independent of the organisational issue and that will contribute to important improvements for the users of the Matrikkel Act and the Matrikkel.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1271	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1276	I record what the Council of State says, but here the government has put up with a – call it – large-scale, at least comprehensive, privatisation of a public service, as an overwhelming majority in the hearings and in the hearing opinions disagree that is clever to do. The government has simply chosen not to listen to any of the recordings that have been made in the hearings, which are the large, heavy majority, and which are strongly opposed to this, which is actually a purely privatisation proposal. Nor can the government have had the citizens' welfare and well in focus, as the proposition describes that privatisation of services is most likely to be more expensive. It is also stated in the report that the government itself has ordered and that supports it. So I could imagine asking, can the Council of State just confirm that the ideology of privatizing for the sake of privatisation has weighed more heavily than any other consideration?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1281	I'm very happy to confirm that the government is running politics, and that it's based on ideology. There's no problem. Then I actually have a rather relaxed relationship with this matter. I don't understand that you can make ideology out of this. I do not understand that it is ok that private painters paint a house, draw a house, build a house, but therefore do not trust to be able to measure a property based on expertise and do a professional job in this area. I just don't understand. I don't understand why it has to be legal. But I'm recording that the government is in a minority. The majority of the population is of a different opinion. You don't want competition. I think competition had contributed to shorter waiting times and cheaper solutions. You have to remember that the differences are huge today. It is not that the job is very different from the municipality to the municipality, but the price of this is very different depending on the municipality in which you live. I also think it would build up good private services based on quality. I think that would be good for the users, and that's the important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1292	I understand that the Council of State has difficulties in running this ideologically, but that is exactly what the government here has done. It is, of course, an ideological privatisation proposal which is being discussed here. It has marginal support outside government agencies, nor does it get a majority here today. Then I register that the council says that she “believes” that it had become both shorter waiting time for property measurements, and that the service had become cheaper. But how can the Council of State support this? Does she choose to ignore the reports she has ordered, or has she just not read them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1299	I believe fundamentally in freedom of choice, and the government made it possible for the municipalities to choose to offer this service if they wanted it. If the municipalities are the best and have the best and cheapest services, then the municipalities will win. I would choose the municipality if they were the cheapest and best. But the good thing about competition is that you can just choose. I think it gets sharper, and I think it leads to lower price and better quality. Then it's obviously a misunderstanding that all surveyors are municipal employees. They're not at all. It's not like you have to be a municipal employee to do surveying. It is a municipal responsibility, but many municipalities, especially in Agder and in Finnmark, buy this service, so others can do it. It is not that you have to be a public employee in order to perform this service. Then you don't have to have it as a statutory task.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1306	It was so clarifying that the Council of State clarified to the previous representative that the municipalities can still choose to purchase this service from private individuals, because it is a municipal responsibility. It goes on in the majority proposal that you can continue to buy if you think it is the most appropriate. So to my question: The Ministry has proposed the introduction of an authorisation system with competence requirements for surveyors. To the extent appropriate, it is opposed to private implementation. It has been suggested that a bachelor level training requirement and that establishments to carry out surveying, irrespective of whether they are municipal or private, must have at least one responsible surveyor authorised at each office. The Centre Party, together with the Christian People's Party, has requested in a note that consideration can be given to whether vocational education in this field can be an appropriate means of becoming a surveyor and, where appropriate, to raising the level of competence of those who now have real competence. I wonder what is the Council of State's assessment of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1313	We must now start, and we must have a good dialogue with the municipalities and the surveyors on how to implement this decision. We think that this is an industry similar to everyone else who is getting more and more skills. The challenges in this and many other industries are precisely to be able to measure formal skills against real skills. We believe that today’s surveyers, despite the fact that many of them lack formal competence, have so much relevant practice that they will still be or could be authorised. This is a job we are going to do when Stortinget has made its decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1318	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1323	I'm not going to extend the debate more than necessary, but I just have to repeat something. When I hear representatives Holm Lønneth and Kjønaas Kjos, what I call purely substitutive arguments has been put forward, because here you want to privatise a public service – not because they are sure that it will be better quality, that the waiting times will be shorter, or that it will be cheaper, no, on the contrary: the proposition says that the probability that it will happen is not great. The probability that it will be more expensive is, for example: significantly greater than that which would be cheaper. You just have to be allowed to point that out. This isn't about being afraid of competition, it's about the majority seeing no reason to expose the population to a risk of paying more for a service than they need to, just because you want to privatize this service. Criticism against it stands firm. This is, as I said, nothing but a purely ideological privatisation proposal from the government. I am very pleased that the bulk of the population does not follow that line, but keeps the current system, where the municipalities and the public are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1330	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1346	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no replication, and that those who draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1355	Digitalisation and new technologies give us unparalleled opportunities. First of all, digitisation is a tool to simplify everyday life and to simplify processes in the public sector. In the years ahead, we know that many new jobs will be created as a result of digitisation and automation, and we are going to solve challenges in ways that we can't even imagine today. We also know that if we do not succeed in digitising and developing new technologies, Norwegian business will lose out in international competition. Although digitisation gives us enormous opportunities, it also poses challenges. There is no doubt that our privacy will be put under pressure when we face the digital future. It shows us the annual messages to the Data Protection Authority and the Personal Data Protection Officer in a good way. Good privacy is a fundamental human right. It is absolutely necessary for us to preserve our free and liberal state of law. In fact, we cannot risk people restricting their participation in the social debate or in political life because they fear that information about personal relationships will drift away, be brought forward in the press or used against them. People should not restrict their participation in democracy because they are afraid that the authorities will register and store information about their communication with others – where they go, where they are, or what else they like to do. The Data Protection Authority and the Subject have an important role to play in ensuring compliance with data protection law. The annual reports also show that in the years that have passed, the Data Protection Authority has been an active contributor to the societal debate. I would also like to say that it is positive that the Data Protection Authority has given priority to dealing with data protection issues related to the justice sector, digitisation in the public sector, health, well-being and children, school and education. Our privacy is also challenged by a commercial team. As the government writes in the introduction to the notification and the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Officer themselves, it is a challenge that people use their own personal data as a currency to get adapted services. The problem is not isolated that people use personal data to get adapted services. It is also a step forward that technology and artificial intelligence give us the opportunity. The problem is that people are not necessarily aware of what the information is used for, and what information is being collected. Most of us read, for example. not through very long contractual terms until we accept them to use digital services. The Government is committed to strengthening the privacy of consumers using digital services. In the Jeløya platform, there is a notice of its own wholesale communication on consumer policy. I hope that it will also focus on consumer rights and privacy in a digital economy. In any case, it is important that people are aware that they have their own personal data and that we have legislation that ensures it. This means that people have to be able to erase their personal data when they want it, and that also means that it must be possible to access digital services without necessarily providing a lot of personal data. Here I would like to point out, as the Swedish Data Protection Authority writes in its communication, that the data protection and consumer authorities are cooperating in a good way. It is very important that the industry also contributes to the development of good solutions. It is important and good that the industry itself is increasingly taking responsibility and initiative to develop more privacy-friendly solutions for consumers. I will conclude by saying that this year, privacy will be put on the agenda to a greater extent through the implementation of the EU data protection regulation. This regulation will strengthen our privacy. To mention something, it will be a stricter regulation of people's privacy, and we will also have harmonised legislation in Europe that is good for people, for the consumer and for business. But a new legislation does not necessarily solve all the challenges. A good level of privacy is also about raising awareness among people, businesses and the public sector. I am pleased that the Data Protection Authority and the Subject of Privacy Policy are actively contributing to the debate in the coming years. That's where we have to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1376	I would like to commend the rapporteur for a clean and good presentation, which addresses the main challenges that the communication from the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Officer addresses. I think it's great that we can see as fully and collectively in this area as we do, cross-politically, because privacy and data security are an extremely important matter, not just for the big community as such, but for each of us. In an increasingly digitised world, where our information on our own health, economy and behaviour – and I soon don't know what – is being recorded more and more, we need to be sure that the information is not being misused or purchased and sold uncritically, among others. between companies that are looking only for their own profit on our own personal data. Unfortunately, we have also recently seen examples of personal images and text being used for extortion and putting individuals in a very difficult situation – yes, even tragic results. Of course, those who exploit and misuse text and images on the web for various forms of extortion and exploitation must be punished. I think we need to plan to use more and more resources in the police and prosecution authorities, so that people who are exposed to them can feel confident that those who are behind them will be researched and taken to the courts. It is therefore important to note that the Committee states that the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Officer must be able to carry out the necessary checks and must also be able to follow up the complaints submitted. If we lose confidence that we're able to control our own digital systems, we're going to have major challenges confidently. It will not be good when we are about to enter into ever-increasing digitalisation both in the private and public sectors. Such a crisis of trust cannot be allowed. That is why I am pleased that there is an overall committee that sees the importance of this, and I can promise that we will take a close look at it even when it comes to the important thing: how do we fund up data protection, data protection, police and prosecution authorities, so that we can actually maintain trust in the systems?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1387	Data protection is an important body at a time when data protection is still being challenged. ‘There are currently hardly any limits to what can be collected from information about us and for what they can be used for’, says the Annual Report of the Data Protection Supervisor. They indicate that technological developments are raging fast, and that it is very demanding for legislation to be involved in the swings. There are two issues that are very important to privacy right now, says the Data Protection Authority. One is the EU data protection regulation, which is to become applicable to Norwegian law. The second is the investigation into digital border defence, which has not yet been submitted as a legislative proposal to the Stortinget. The Data Protection Regulation provides for greater harmonisation of data protection rules in the EU than under the existing Data Protection Directive. EU rules are comprehensive and cover all areas of society. The government's assumption is that the Regulation is to be fully implemented by means of a new personal data law. The Ministry of Justice's consultation proposal states that Norwegian special legislation must give up if it is contrary to the regulation. We recognize that from other debates. The centre party is critical of such an approach to the development of Norwegian data protection legislation. We would like to transfer legislation adopted by others when it is consistent with our own understanding of how to strengthen privacy, but we believe that there must be a national assessment of the need for action on the basis of which our personal data law is adopted. In our comments in the committee position, we have asked questions as to whether this is the case when, among other things, in new personal data laws. is not proposed to continue the system of reporting obligations to supervisory authorities in the processing of personal data in the workplace. The Data Protection Authority has strongly warned against implementing the proposal for digital border defence as presented by a selection in autumn 2016. All cable communications entering and leaving Norway are proposed to be registered in different registers. In the opinion of the Data Protection Authority, the proposal would conflict with both the European Convention on Human Rights and the Constitution. They show, among other things: to the so-called Tele2 judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. It was concluded that data storage laws in Sweden and the United Kingdom were not in line with the right to privacy. The judgment says that it is not in line with human rights to store data without an assessment of the need and whether it is appropriate to store it. The Data Protection Authority believes that this judgment will have to have consequences for the design of the digital border defence here to land. The use of social media by children and young people and the commercialisation of personal data are among the areas mentioned in the Annual Report. Increased use of social media with the sharing of images and information may impair the privacy of children. I am therefore pleased that the Data Protection Board, together with the Education Directorate and the Centres for ICT, have worked on a guide material for good data protection in the training sector. I also believe it is important that the Data Protection Authority focuses on how the collection and analysis of consumer data has become a factor in the marketing of products. Personal data is a growing commodity, and it is a challenge that much of the collection is done in secret, without our knowledge of it. This is a challenging area for us as legislators. It's good that we have a computer monitor that does its job to document what's actually happening in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1404	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for both a good job and a good report. As many have said, these are technically very complex issues and areas where I generally believe that politicians – and perhaps especially those of my generation – have too little competence to really know what is the consequence of one or the other. Therefore, it is so important that we strengthen the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Authority, but also that we listen to them when they make their recommendations. They will help us as politicians to protect both individuals and their private lives and to help them manage the new digital reality, which can sometimes lead a completely different place from what you had in mind, and which can help you to naturally be mapped and exposed to all of your behaviors and that kind of thing, but also to others in a much more serious direction. The second is how we as the public sector are going to rig our services, because they're also digitized. Public service digitisation is under way. I would like to point out just two things in the future that we must be aware of. One is that in this area, it has been found that some of these services have also been exposed to competition abroad, leading to the availability of sensitive personal data from Norwegian patients to staff abroad. It's a serious matter. Such systems cannot be allowed. Then you have to find solutions to that. How these solutions should be, I can't say anything about this today, but we as the authorities must be able to assure our citizens that such patient information – or other sensitive information that our population provides to the authorities – is safe. The second thing I want to draw attention to is the pace and quality of public sector digitisation. It's a difficult thing. It's often gone wrong when you've done it, but you have to keep going. The messages I now get from several agencies are that digitization, both the quality of it, the whole of it and the speed of it, is being slowed down by the so-called ABE reform, that is, unprioritized cheese needs, to which all the agencies are exposed. Yesterday I was with representatives of the Norwegian Civil Service Team, and there were several people, especially from the tax department, who called out a warning about this. Representatives from other agencies also called for this warning, because they are told to spend less money, and then they have to choose between caring, for example. the collection of tax revenues – that it is done in a proper and proper way – and the use of money to update the digital tool to help with this. I just wanted to warn you that you need to know what you're doing, even when you're equipping our public sector with digital tools, that you're ensuring both the necessary privacy and that it's done at a pace and with a quality that makes us take care of what the two floors we're dealing with the annual reports to now tell us is necessary for it to be safe for our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1423	An increasingly large part of our lives is going on digitally. This development gives us the opportunity to solve many challenges. At the same time, data protection is challenged in new ways. The annual communications to the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Unit show this with great clarity. Personal data is one of the building blocks of a data-driven society. Successful digitisation requires that users have confidence in the services they meet. An increasing number of enterprises are choosing to outsource the processing of personal data to Norwegian or foreign third parties. The use of external service providers imposes specific requirements on the work on information security and privacy. One of the purposes of data protection legislation is precisely to ensure that personal data are used and processed correctly. It's not about using data, it's about using data in the right way. Personal data is a rapidly growing commodity and means of payment. Commercial actors are gathering more and more information about us. Consumers are often given incomprehensible and incomplete information on what information is collected about them and how they are used. They are faced with difficult choices and depend on good information to make the right choice. The government believes that everyone should be able to have their own personal data as far as possible. The security of data processing is fundamental to consumer-service confidence. Children and young people are keen users of technologies and new forms of communication. It is an advantage for learning and development, but it also makes young people more vulnerable to abuse. Both legislation and technology must be designed in such a way as to ensure good privacy for children and young people. They need increased knowledge of privacy. I am therefore very positive about the work of the Data Protection Authority to teach young people to take control of their own information and help them to make good personal choices. The EU Data Protection Regulation will enter into force in the EU Member States on 25 May this year. It shall ensure the protection of personal data, uniform rules within the EU and the EEA and the free movement of personal data between EU/EEA countries. The registered containers and are partially reinforced by their rights. The economy has a single European regulatory framework. The new data protection legislation requires all enterprises to work according to the principles of embedded privacy. Privacy shall be built into technology from the start. This has been introduced as a public sector requirement in the government’s digitalisation circular. It is good that built-in privacy is now so clearly included in the legislation. Data protection is an important actor in the design and implementation of new legislation. It will increase the supervision of guidance and information tasks in addition to new management tasks. It is necessary that supervision is well equipped to meet the new challenges, and therefore the allocation has increased significantly in recent years. In 2018, the increase is 3.5 million. kr in addition to the continuation of the increase of 7,5 mill. kr from 2017. A more harmonised data protection legislation in Europe will strengthen Norwegian citizens’ rights in meeting with foreign actors. It's important to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1442	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1458	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to three rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1467	It is important that the police have good tools to prevent, detect and combat crime. However, the instruments given to the police need to be balanced against what is necessary and proportionate. In this proposal, the Government has requested that the police be able to obtain information about those who are staying or have been in reception of asylum without giving any reason why they need to obtain such information. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that the police can clearly need this information, but the police have to justify why they need it. In this way, we ensure that the police assessment can be verified and verified, and that the conditions are met. Such a view is also supported by the Law Association. Therefore, the Christian People's Party, together with the SV, promotes proposals that the police must justify why they want this information. So we are not against the police getting this information when it is necessary, but in order to strengthen the legal certainty of the individual, we believe that this needs to be justified. I take up the proposals from the Christian People's Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1476	The representative Torhild Bransdal has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1481	I don't think 5 minutes from us about this. It is a matter of course for the Labour Party that the police have an overview of who lives in the individual police districts. This is the case in Norway, and it must also apply to non-residents living on reception facilities. The reasons given by the police are as follows: they shall be able to carry out their duties as control body in the foreign field, promote work with security and preparedness, and facilitate the prevention and investigation of criminal offences. They'll get the necessary tools they need. We support this because it is about providing the police with information that is necessary for the police's tasks under the Foreign Affairs Act or for police purposes. This is not about suspecting anyone. It is a matter of having an overview of who lives in the various police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1490	The main purpose of this proposal is to help the police to obtain an overview of non-residents living in the individual police districts. This is because the police have to be able to carry out their duties more easily as a control body in the foreign field, to promote the work of security and preparedness, and to facilitate the prevention and investigation of criminal acts. The Ministry of Justice and Defence came in July 2016 with an instruction that the police should be provided with information on the name, date of birth and nationality of residents in reception for certain purposes. This instruction was based on the high number of asylum seekers in the autumn of 2015. It was limited to 31 December 2017. That is why we are dealing with this today, because the police have announced that they need information about residents in reception regardless of situations of higher asylum arrivals. The legislative proposal requires information to be provided to the police, upon written request and without prejudice to professional secrecy. Police shall also receive such information as regards residents who have leave from reception or from the care centre. Information may be required when necessary for police tasks under the Foreign Affairs Act or tasks related to police purposes. The information may include, inter alia: be obtained when necessary in the context of the police’s work on foreign controls. Knowledge of the residents of different reception and care centres will put police districts in a significantly better position to prevent and prevent the presence of, for example: criminal acts and other violations of public order and security. Kripos emphasises that today’s legal situation creates uncertainty and limits the police’s ability to perform their duties effectively when such information is relevant. The proposal refers to the fact that the Ministry of Justice and Security is currently working on a new data protection legislation based on the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council in 2016. This new legislation is planned to enter into force in May 2018. What is important here is that this proposal that comes here is in line with and in line with the new data protection regulation, and the ministry assumes that it will also be in line with the regulation that the European Union has adopted. I think it is important to point out that the information to be provided by the police should be provided upon written request. It makes this request available and, in particular, it will ensure what is described in the proposition as a notority. This means that you will be able to verify the police's written requests. It is the Data Protection Authority that is authorised to monitor this. I would therefore like to say that the concerns that have been raised here today by some representatives and the case rapporteur are well ensured in this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1505	The legislative proposal we are examining is that, upon written request, the police should be provided with information on the name, date of birth and nationality of current and former residents of asylum centres and care centres for single minor asylum seekers. The aim of the proposal is to help the police to obtain an overview of foreign residents in each police district, so that police can carry out their functions more easily as a control body in the foreign field, promote the work of security and preparedness, and facilitate the prevention and investigation of criminal offences. It is important for the police to have effective access to information on who lives or has lived in asylum recipients and care centres. The information may contribute to the effective prevention of crime, the fight against crime, the investigation of crime and the establishment of contingency plans. Kripos emphasises that today’s legal situation creates uncertainty and limits the police’s ability to perform their duties effectively when such information is relevant. Information on reception residents will also improve police preparation in their regular contact with reception and may be of mutual benefit to both receptions, residents and police. As with several hearing bodies, the government considers that the same considerations justifying the police’s need for information about residents in reception apply to residents in care centres for single minor asylum seekers. This is a highly vulnerable group, and the information could be central to preventing minors from being subjected to serious crime or being influenced to participate in criminal offences. Some hearing bodies have pointed out that it is not clear that the purpose of the change cannot be achieved by the law of the day. According to Sections 9 to 3 of the People's Register Regulation The fifth paragraph shall provide the police with the information deemed necessary by the public register authorities. However, asylum seekers residing in reception and care centres are not registered in the population register. Fear The children point out that the police have no opportunity to collect similar information about children from other child protection institutions in order to prevent or detect criminal acts. This is not entirely correct, as children in child welfare institutions have a residence address, which we again find in the population register. In addition to the fact that the police will have access to the name, date of birth and nationality, the proposal states that the police can be given access to information about when they arrived at the reception and when they moved on. To the extent that the reception or UDI has information about it, the police should also be informed of a new residence. Foreigners who have an application for treatment are obliged to inform the police about the change of their place of residence. The proposal states that there must be a justification for the request, even if this justification is not to be provided to the receptions or care centres. Reasons must be given as to the purpose for which the information is to be used and as to the nature of the case. However, I agree that the provision of information on children requires that special vulnerability of children be taken into account. Police must therefore look to the best interests of the child when carrying out assessments of the need. It follows from the Constitution and the Convention on the Rights of the Child that the best interests of the child shall be a fundamental consideration in actions and decisions affecting children. The Government considers that it is not appropriate for the receptions to be granted a review authority, since the receptions do not have the necessary police or legal competence to assess whether information is necessary for the police. The control task has been entrusted to the Data Protection Authority. It must be assumed that most residents are aware that the Norwegian authorities have access to information on their name, date of birth, citizenship and where they live, in the same way that the police have access to this information on other Norwegian citizens and foreigners registered in the population register. As the police district of Oslo points out, otherwise good justification and information for the group for which information is provided could help limit the sense of infringement and ensure the legal certainty of the individual. Children are particularly vulnerable to trafficking, abuse and exploitation, and it is the responsibility of society for children living in Norway. We have a specific responsibility for the care of children's lives, health and development. Therefore, the progress party supports the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1537	The centre party believes that the purpose of the bill promoted in the proposal is well justified. There is a need for the police to have an overview of non-residents living in the individual police districts, and it is therefore also desirable that the police be able to obtain information about residents in reception. This is otherwise information that the police could have obtained on other nationals registered in Norway through the public register and the postal register but not applicable to those in receipt. The proposal therefore applies to the provision of information about current and former residents in reception and care centres, and also to persons with leave from reception and care centres. It is underlined that the obligation of reception, care centres or UDIs to provide information is limited to informing them of information they have. Refugee service staff shall not be used to collect information that is not already available to them. While the proposal on access to information by the police is well justified by the need to carry out its functions as control body for the foreign field and to promote the work on security and crime prevention, legitimate objections may also be raised. The Ministry says that the police’s use of the authority to obtain information about current and former residents must be balanced between the individual’s need for protection and the needs of society justifying the provision of information. Few people live in reception or care centres that pose some safety risks. Many residents fear the authorities of their own country and have generally seen little confidence in the authorities. It requires good judgement when the information is obtained. We note that the consultation has reacted to the fact that it also opens up information about children living in asylum centres and care centres for lone minors. The Ministry points out that the best and the vulnerability of the child on the one hand indicates that information about the child should not be provided from reception or care centres. On the other hand, the child’s best interests also provide special protection against criminal acts and the police must be able to prevent the child from taking part in criminal acts himself. In a note to the Hearing Opinion of the Association, the Parties stress that human rights are subject to legal requirements, legitimate purposes and justification in cases where there is interference with the right to privacy. The Association of Lawyers considers that the proposal that the police may require information without justification is not sufficiently justified in its proposal. We have therefore asked questions as to whether a justification should be required for the disclosure of information, and that it should be written down and form part of the file in the individual case. The majority of the Committee refers to the need for police to address a written request to the reception in order to obtain information. It also stated that disclosure of information should be necessary in order to carry out police duties. The majority believe that a written request ensures sufficient traceability of the information requested by the police. It is the total, complex part of the information, i.e. how it is compiled, that will determine whether or not you are in conflict with the legislation. That's why, in the opinion of the Center Party, it's good that we get a reprobability. A minority believe that the request for transparency shall be justified in writing and recorded in the Foreign Affairs and Refugees Computer System. Nevertheless, the central party will vote for the vote as it exists on the part of the majority. Consideration of reprobability is taken into account in our view of the requirement for a written request for transparency, but we believe it is important that caution be exercised by the police when requesting access to the personal data of residents at receptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1556	The police need for information about who lives on reception or who has left it is a legitimate need. The proposition states that there is a justification for the need for transparency in individual cases. I believe that neither the government nor the majority believe that this information should only be obtained in a general way, just as the police collect general information about us all in the public register. It is important that the starting point here is that seeking asylum is not a criminal act. It's basically ordinary people, like us, and there's no basis for general suspicion of anyone living in reception. When Christian People's Party and SV believe that this justification should be written down, it is simply to ensure the reprobability that the representative Nordlund was also up and underlined was important. We believe that the requirements set out in the proposition do not ensure that it is possible to verify it afterwards, when it is not written down, but simply an enquiry about transparency. So to the last point that the Christian People's Party and the SV have suggested, which is about children and the best of the child. I have been aware that in many cases there is absolute reason for the police to keep a pretty sharp eye on what has happened around these receptions, because it is right that some of these children have been subjected to criminal acts, to human trafficking and to recruitment into very negative environments. So that's why. However, there is also reason to stress that there is a need for specific reasons for the police to ask for information in these cases. I can see that there's a consensus on that, too. The question is whether to write it down and justify it. The SV and the Christian People's Party believe it should, because it must be clear and verifiable even in these cases that this is about the best and not about general immigration regulatory considerations, which are so important in many of the cases that the child's best interests are subordinated. There is SV and the Christian People's Party skeptical about and want to encroach on the determination in a way that ensures its reprobability. Finally, one of the things that could really make sure that we had a better overview of who is here, or at least have a type of identification of them, would be that you put in place biometric identification and the technology around the national ID cards. We're waiting for that, because it's one of the things that can make it impossible to operate with different identities, for example, which has proved to be a pattern among some of those who haven't had good intentions, but bad intentions. It's probably not registered here in the country, but it's registered elsewhere that you operate with multiple identities. It's a big problem. There has been one of the cases SV has addressed in a lot of contexts. Such biometric identification when registered as an asylum seeker would be an identification to help in the situations covered by these changes in the laws we are about to deal with. So I want to use the opportunity to ask this again, because it would be an instrument that can be very useful in a lot of ways. That the government prioritises getting it in place is very important. I perceive that the proposals in the setting have been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1571	They're recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1576	I am pleased that this is now the majority of the government's proposals. It is very important that the police have access to information about who lives in each police district, including who lives in reception and care centres. This will facilitate their work in the field of foreign control, promote work on security and preparedness and assist in the prevention and investigation of criminal offences. The police law already provides the police with legal access to information on all other Norwegian and foreign citizens who are registered in the population register. I see no reason why the police should not also have the opportunity to get information about who lives in reception. When SV and the Christian People's Party propose that the reasons for the disclosure of information should be written down and form part of the file in each case, there is first reason to comment on the practical and resource implications of such a proposal. There are about 150 asylum seekers in an asylum facility. If it is necessary for the police to have a list of those who live in the reception, this proposal would require that the grounds for transparency be written down and stored on 150 different cases by the foreign authorities. In my view, this is not the appropriate use of resources. Secondly, there is reason to note that consideration of confidentiality in police work and consideration of police confidentiality may also conflict with the proposal that reasons should be set out and placed on asylum seekers’ cases. It is important that confidentiality-related information and confidential information relating to police work are not disseminated to a greater extent than is necessary. We are concerned with the legal certainty of each asylum seeker. The government’s bill therefore requires the disclosure of information upon written request and that the information is necessary for the police’s task under the Foreign Affairs Act or for police purposes. The police must therefore have a justified need for information, even if the justification is not written down and stored on the case of each asylum seeker. The information is also limited mainly to information on the name, date of birth and nationality as well as when and where he moved to and from the reception. So there is no more detailed information on how asylum seekers live in reception, why they have sought protection, or the like. In my view, as regards the minority's proposal for a separate provision in the law on residents of care centres, where the best interests of the child are represented as a prerequisite for the provision of information, this is superfluous. It is already clear from the Constitution and the Convention on the Rights of the Child that the best interests of the child must be a fundamental consideration in actions and decisions affecting children. In addition, the specific remarks on this provision specifically state that the police must consider the best interests of the child if the request also concerns the provision of information covering children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1593	The thing about which there is a little disagreement in this case is how to verify the reasons given, i.e. the police's reasons for asking for this kind of transparency. I hear the Council of State say this has to do with resource issues, that information should not be disseminated unnecessarily, etc. What we have done is we have asked the Ministry for Legal Assistance for this matter, so that it can be done in an appropriate way. Is it then such to understand that the Council of State believes that this justification is set down somewhere, so that it is possible to test it in ways other than those proposed by the Christian People's Party and the SV today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1598	As I see it, the proposal proposed by SV and the Christian People's Party will mean that you have to go into the individual case and make up to 150 records. In matters relating to the investigation of criminal offences, the police will often need to keep the information secret. That's why it's going to be a challenge if you're going to do it. It will also conflict with the police's need for confidentiality in their work and the need for individual confidentiality of personal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1603	Then I have to try to repeat the question: how should it be possible to verify that this has actually been necessary? What the council now says, is that if there's 150 living there, there's all the 150 that need to be investigated. That's probably hardly a reason, I'd assume, the police should be looking for everyone in general. There have been many in the Chamber here saying that there is hardly any reason for this, and that this must be done in situations where there is reason to suspect, and where this is necessary for police work in specific cases – not as a routine measure. Is this to be done routinely, and are these reasons written down somewhere, so that it is possible to verify them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1610	The police must have a justified need for information, but the legal text does not require a written justification. The control task has been added to the Data Protection Authority. They shall carry out an independent check.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1615	It is very difficult to understand how supervision can control a reason that does not exist, and that is the whole purpose of our proposal. As I said, we have asked the Ministry of Justice and Defence for legal assistance to formulate this need, so it would have been entirely possible for the Minister to make other types of proposals, where this had been given a different form. I have to repeat: how does the Council of State think it is necessary to check a reason that is not written down?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1620	It is considered that there should be a written request and it is considered that there will be sufficient notoriety to allow the Data Protection Authority to carry out its control task. So I think this is a good code that will be enforced in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1625	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1643	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no opportunity to change lines, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1652	Four amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act are proposed: authorising the Ministry to give general instructions on the use of coercive measures in matters of fundamental national interest; to authorise the regulation of a specific place of residence and notification in the same type of proceedings; correcting a deficiency in the provision on residence permits in engagement cases correcting a referral error in Section 108 of the Foreign Affairs Act The bill also contains the Ministry’s feedback on the Storting’s request decision on gender-based persecution as a basis for residence and on changes to the foreign regulation on the maintenance requirement. SV has a different view of the request decision about changes to the maintenance requirement, which I expect they will explain themselves. There are changes that include general instructions on the use of coercive agents in matters of fundamental national interest that are central. That is why, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I want to focus on this. Already today, the coercive measures of the Foreign Affairs Act are in place. It is a forced return when a non-resident does not cooperate on voluntary return. There are also sanctions for falsification of identity. The Ministry may give instructions to the UDI and the police in such cases. But they cannot give instructions on matters that concern the security of the state. Why not? It's because of the Krekar case's court order. The instruction from the department was the coin of the Krekar, and the court put its foot down. It is now proposed to clean up the legislation. It is intended to provide the ministry with the opportunity to instruct, even in serious cases, about the country's security, fundamental national interests. It is important to clarify what this right of instruction implies. The Ministry shall not be given the opportunity to instruct in a specific case, but to give general instructions – to the police and the court. Occupancy in a specific location only applies in cases where there are deportees who threaten fundamental national interests — types such as Krekar. What about legal certainty? It is the police who carry out the individual assessment in the very few cases of expulsion, fundamental national interests, and the coercive decision may be appealed to the Court of Justice. - As far as the rapporteur-in-Office. This is a clean-up in the law. The right of instruction already exists, but strangely not in cases where national security is at stake. It's a general instruction. All cases are to be dealt with individually by the police, and all complaints are to be addressed to the Court of Justice. The professional judgements are most important, but also the political signals we give about people like Mulla Krekar's space for action in our free and democratic country. The reason he's in the country is that we respect human rights, but fortunately, human rights are not in the way of us preventing him from harming our fundamental national interests. When we can't expel people like him, we need tools to prevent them from recruiting, building networks and radicalizing dangerous elements in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1682	The right also has just a few brief comments on this matter, which, of course, as the rapporteur explained, are marked by a great deal of consensus. It is also a unanimous setting. Prop. 125 L for 2016-2017, which we are examining now, is about changes and clearing up in the Foreign Affairs Act, as the rapporteur said, among other things. authorising the Ministry to give general instructions on the use of coercive measures under the Foreign Affairs Act in matters of fundamental national interests and security matters. It is about ensuring that we have the necessary tools in cases where individuals pose a threat to fundamental national interests. The proposal therefore only applies to the freedom of the ministry to give general instructions on coercive measures, and all decisions on individual cases continue to be taken by the police. Legal certainty shall be ensured within the framework of Norwegian law and international law, and that is an important principle. The proposal also deals with several other proposals, such as the provision of a basis for regulatory regulation on location and reporting obligations in cases where a foreigner poses a threat to fundamental national interests. I am pleased that the committee has supported the government's proposals here. The proposal also proposes to correct a deficiency in the provision on residence permits in engaged cases, following the treatment of Prop. 90 L for 2015-2016, so that a 24-year requirement shall also apply to this group. The proposal also addresses several of the request decisions of the Storting, inter alia. the case of gender-based persecution as a basis for residence. It's an important topic. I'm glad that the UDI assures us that we have a practice that supports this and that provides good protection in such contexts, and that they confirm that our practice is consistent with both national legislation and international obligations. As regards the request decision on changes to the foreign regulation relating to the maintenance requirement, the amendments made thereto were also explained in August 2017. This is a matter on which there has been a great deal of agreement in the Committee, and it is a common position. The right big group is happy about that, and then I just think that I'm going to end up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1699	The proposition we are dealing with concerns the amendment of Chapter 12 of the Foreign Affairs Act on the use of coercive agents. There is a consensus that there is a need for revision of the legislation on the use of coercive substances, in order to clarify what should be the law in force. The various evaluations of the various proposals which have emerged during the comitology process relate to one important aspect, namely the provision on the detention of children. The central party – and I think all parties – is that children should not experience being interned or imprisoned, either with their families or alone. However, it may be necessary to use coercive measures when a family that has received a final refusal to apply for asylum or stay in Norway refuses to accept a decision to return to their home country, i.e. as a last resort. A Joint Committee underlines the need to set clear limits on the detention of children and families with children and that the conditions at the place of detention, the age of the child and the duration of the detention are important elements in assessing the ability of children to be interned. Decisions on the detention of families with children must be made clear on the reasons why the best interests of the child have been cared for. The Committee believes that it is necessary to legislate that families with children can only be integrated into their own children’s and families’ reception facilities that are specially organised. I am pleased that it is underlined that families with children cannot be interned in the international space at Trandum, which has been a practice in the past. A temporary detention centre has now been established for families with children in Hurdal before the permanent detention centre to be built at Eidsvoll is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1710	I think the representative Nordlund must be given the opportunity to start over, because he makes statements on the wrong case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1715	Is that the next thing? That's what I stunned at myself. We're doing it this way that I'm closing this post now, and then we're going to go on to the material change and the additional proposals to the Center Party in the next case. I Prop. 125 L for 2016-2017, currently under consideration – obviously – the Centre Party agrees with the proposed amendments and supports the proposals and comments we make.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1720	It was good to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1725	There is a lot of agreement in this case, too, but what is different is that SV and the Christian People's Party support the need to provide a regulatory home for a particular place of residence and reporting, but we do not support the general instructional access requested by the government, because we believe that the request for such coercive measures should be made to the police, so that they can be tried by the courts. It's a principle attitude we have toward it, and that's why we're naturally in favour of it. We are well aware of the background to this case, which several people have been involved in, the Mulla Krekar case, which has been a difficult trial for everyone, because I have not yet really met any politicians who have thought it has been a matter that has been simple or particularly easy to handle. But it has also been a testament to the fact that we keep the legal guarantees that we have said in this country. But there is an absolute need to have some tools, for example: that regulatory capacity to regulate the place of residence and the notification requirement. We fully agree with that. With regard to the proposals for a residence permit for marriage, which had not extended or changed the age limits set for this, that it was a mistake, SV did not support the increase in the age limit when it came to family reunification with marriage, because we have no faith that it works. I've had a lot of contact with people in these situations, and a lot of those who have had problems have been a lot older than this, so it's not about age here, but about the will to enforce. In the majority of these love marriages, there's probably even less reason to think that this is a very important provision. That's why we're going to go against it, because we're opposed to raising the age limit. What may be more serious is this request decision on changes to the maintenance requirement. It is because the government there put out a proposal that they have now gone back on, but the problem of the proposal is not the deadlines alone, it is the increase in the fee, which happens in another case, namely in the budget. There has now been a massive increase in the fees payable to be able to submit this application. I have a table in front of me here that shows how this has increased in recent years – from 2010, when it amounted to NOK 3447, to 2018, where it is NOK 10 500. These refugees – for example, refugees who may be exempted from the maintenance requirement for family reunification – have no opportunity to obtain this money. Where would they get them? And when you increase -- it doesn't really matter what you do with these deadlines, as long as you increase the application fees in these cases in such a way that it would be completely impossible for ordinary people with normal wages to save together that kind of sum in such a short time. This seems to have gone a little back on these deadlines. You set a six-month deadline for submitting the application and paying the fee. It's the last thing – to pay the fee – that's the problem. It is not a problem to set that deadline for submitting the application, which I think everyone agrees is fully possible, but it is not possible for these people to obtain money for these high fees. SV suggested in the budget to cut these fees because we believe that it is an effective and intentional act by the government to prevent family reunification in these matters. That's what we think wrong, given that it doesn't promote good integration not being allowed to be with your family when you're recognised as a refugee. There is also a very family-indistinct policy at the bottom of this, and there is an SV disagree. That is why we want to go against these points.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1738	The Government has submitted a proposal for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act which primarily relate to the possibility for the Ministry to provide regulations or instructions on the use of coercive measures in matters of fundamental national interest. It is unnecessary to stress that this concerns matters where it is very important for the government to have control. The Ministry therefore attaches great importance to the safe handling of these matters and has clear procedures for interaction between UDI, UNE, PST and UD. Let me stress that the main objective of the government is that those who pose a security threat should be sent out of the country as soon as possible. There is no surprise for anyone in this room that I would rather have seen that there was greater access than today to use detention until the broadcast can take place, but in some cases we have to be aware that there are other instruments that need to be assessed. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Committee that the Ministry should be able to provide regulations and general guidelines on the use of coercive measures. This is important for an effective follow-up. I would like to stress that the legal certainty of the individual will be adequately ensured. The Ministry can only give general instructions and all instructions must, of course, be within the framework of Norwegian law and international law. The Ministry will still not be able to intervene in the assessment of the use of coercive measures in each case, and in this context the courts will also be able to monitor the absence of general instructions which are, in substance, the nature of a single case. With regard to the proposal in the proposal that the 24-year family start-up requirement should also apply to marriage partners, I am pleased that all except SV support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1749	Then your next speaker will be Willfred Nordlund, and we're all excited! Good luck - and be so good!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1755	It may be that the undersigned is excited too. It is as the Council of State was about, important to have full control of their papers at least. I'll try again. Proposition 125 L contains several suggestions, including: related to the follow-up to requests from Stortinget. On the part of the Centre Party, we are pleased with the Stortinge decision that the maintenance requirement for family reunification will not be increased, as the Ministry suggested, but will be kept at the previous level. The contested decision also rejected the proposal to introduce a three-month period for the registration of the application for family reunification. A period of six months shall now be allowed to apply for family reunification with a refugee in order to be exempted from the maintenance requirement. The Committee has endorsed the Ministry's proposal to provide a legal basis for persons who have been expelled but cannot be expelled to be subject to a specific place of residence and, where appropriate, to a notification requirement. It's a step in the right direction. The centre party is included in the committee’s voting position in a majority opinion in which we stress that such a requirement is a serious interference to the latter. We have to be absolutely clear about that. However, we believe that legal certainty is ensured by the rule in the first paragraph of Section 99 of the Foreign Affairs Act that decisions on the use of coercive measures should be based on concrete and individual assessment and through the possibility of subsequent legal testing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1768	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1784	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to three rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1793	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation on a proposition that concerns and is important. The main purpose is to clarify and clarify the rules applicable to the use of coercive funds under the Foreign Affairs Act. In addition, there is a separate provision on the apprehension and detention of minors. This provision provides for a much clearer and more detailed regulation of matters relating to accompanying children in families with children and lone minors. The Committee considers that incarceration is one of the most invasive means of coercion the authorities should use in relation to an individual. Clear barriers must be established to the detention of children and families with children, and the conditions at the place of detention, the age and duration of the child's detention are central factors in assessing the ability of children to be interned. Before deciding on the detention of minors and children’s families, less invasive alternatives shall be considered. Internment of children shall be the last resort. The Committee believes that it is necessary to legislate that families with children can only be housed in their own children’s and family centres, which are specifically organised for families with children and minors, where they have access to, among others. activities, health care and legal assistance. When it comes to the sixth paragraph of Section 106c, there are different views in the Committee. It's about detention time. The Committee's minority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party, initially want 24 hours. Where disease or new conditions exist, they shall not exceed 72 hours. The majority have the starting point three plus three days. Alternatives to incarceration where the detention of families with children is the last resort, such as: the use of electronic control, i.e. the footlink of parents, has been given great attention by the Committee. A minority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV, want electronic footlinks to be used as alternatives to detention or detention of children's families by forced repatriation. Internment shall be the last resort. The Central Party has promoted its own proposal to investigate this further. As far as the rapporteur is concerned. For the Workers' Party, the legitimacy of the asylum institution is important. That is why we must have a clear and good return policy. Those not entitled to protection shall be returned. It also means forced return. It is brutal, but necessary if we are to maintain the integrity of the asylum system. When it comes to repatriation of families with children, the starting point of the Workers' Party is that we should not put children in prison. Especially when we know that alternatives other than the incarceration and imprisonment of families with children are available, it should be the last resort. Electronic control and footlinks are something you have experience with in the field of justice, and as the government itself points out that you want to spend more on the field of justice. We are talking here about footlinks on the parents so that the police have control of where they are and can plan their departure. Someone says they can be cut off. Well, if someone tries to sabotage, the alarm will go. That's the whole point. Electronic footlinks can also be used for a longer period of time, enabling the police to plan their departure better and providing flexibility to make reservations about new information and challenges that may arise along the way, but at the same time giving the children the opportunity to be in the vicinity they have been living in, go to school, play with friends and not be in prison until they leave. When this option exists, we have to make use of it. The government was to investigate alternatives other than prison. It's not done. Yes, there'll be children's and family's facilities, but there's still prison. That is why I am pleased that the Workers' Party, together with the Christian People's Party and SV, listens to Red Barna, Unicef and others. and provides a real alternative to child imprisonment. Let me add: if these parents don't accept it and try to sabotage, the last way out is internment – but then other options are used to spare the children. It's taking into account the best of the children. That is why I take up the Workers' Party's proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1812	The representative Masud Gharahkhani has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1823	The main point of this proposition is the discussion on the detention of children and children’s families. I am pleased that the Ministry of Justice and Defence is now striking this very clearly. The proposal, which is a revision of the existing legislation, clarifies and clarifies the rules applicable to the use of coercive funds under the Foreign Affairs Act. This is now incorporated in the Criminal Procedures Act, and not least makes it visible which clear references and rules are to be used. An additional provision is made for the apprehension and detention of minors. This provision provides for clearer and more detailed legislation and regulation. We are happy about that; we do not have it today. The use of coercive measures under the Foreign Affairs Act has recently been extended and the legislation is detailed. That's why it's important to get in there. Internment of people, and especially of children, is one of the most invasive means of coercion we can use against an individual. Internment of children raises particularly demanding issues. It is therefore good that a legislative proposal is now being promoted which makes this clear. Most forced insertions take place today at the Trandum Foreign Internet, but the majority of them last only up to one day, and the proportion beyond three days is low. The same applies to the family unit in Hurdal. I, along with some members of the committee, had the joy of being in Hurdal one afternoon. There was no one else but the one who ran the center, who was present there, but I was quite reassured by the child-care skills that were there, and by how to cooperate with the child-restraint in the municipality. So now that we get a center, that's good. It is also important that the police deal with forced return. The aim must be that most travel on a voluntary basis, but if there is no other way out than internment, it shall be as short as possible. I would also refer to Article 3 of the Children's Convention, which we have incorporated into Norwegian law, which requires us that the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration in all matters relating to children. That is why we have spent a lot of time on this in the committee. Clear limits must be set for the incarceration of children and families of children, and the conditions at the place of detention, the age of the child and the duration of the detention must be central factors to be considered. It is necessary to legislate that families with children can only be housed in their own children’s and family units that are specially organised, and it must be clear from the law that you cannot be interned in a foreign home. The Right Party and the Advance Party stress that the transport of children and children’s families should take place mainly within 24 hours. In those cases where there is a need to keep children's families with minor children longer after apprehension, we point out that this bill contains a new limitation that first of all detention can only be decided for up to 72 hours, compared with two weeks today. We believe that this constraint is important. In addition to strengthening leadership in the shortest possible period of incarceration, the restriction ensures that detention is more frequently tried by courts and that child protection is given the opportunity to re-examine and comment in the case before the period of incarceration may be further extended. Today, of course, we support the proposition, but we will also support the proposals made by the Central Party. That means you're restricting your detention. Those are the proposals in the matter. We also support the proposal of the Centre Party to investigate the use of footlinks. We believe it is hasty to start using footlinks before this is properly investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1844	The matter we are dealing with today is a very important matter. It is about how to handle children in a good way, while at the same time maintaining and enforcing Norwegian refugee and asylum policies. Norway has a rough refugee and asylum policy, but it is essential that we ensure that those who are finally rejected and do not stay in Norway are sent out as soon as possible. Today there are many good arrangements for voluntary returns. Asylum seekers with a final rejection of the application are offered an assisted return and a large amount of money if they travel on a voluntary basis. Of course, it is best for all parties that the return is voluntary, but in some cases people with final refusal refuse to leave the country. Some of them have children and, unfortunately, choose to put the children under the extra burden of not cooperating with the authorities to comply with a legally adopted decision. Today, there is really no difference between prisoning adults and children, even though the case law has been correctly tightened. But it is still very correct and important that we get this case, which sets a clear framework for the detention of children, on the table. Of course, there should be stricter criteria for the detention of children than for adults. Even before the new legislation has been adopted — if adopted — the police have begun to act accordingly. Children's families are no longer interned at Trandum, but at a temporary children's and family's home, Haraldvangen. A new permanent boarding school is being planned, and we hope that it will be put in place as soon as possible. The Government's proposal states that in the event of the detention of children, this shall be done with a notice of three days at a time. If the total length of the detention is to exceed six days, it shall be strictly special in order for it to take place. In that case, there must be conditions that are not due to the work of the police but that the person himself is responsible for the fact that the shipment has not taken place. Addressing current legislation is a major improvement in the legal certainty of children and the best interests of the child. There is a proposal that we should set a maximum time of 24 hours and a maximum of three days if there are special conditions. In practice, such a provision, although safe, would mean that the children could be subjected to additional stress, because it is the intrusion of detention that is burdensome for the children. If you don't have children sent out after 72 hours for different reasons, you can risk letting the children out again, getting false hopes, and then the police come and pick them up again. We will avoid shielding the children from the additional loads that may result. That is why we want a higher limit, so that we can have control, with good professional competence and good supervision, and be sure that these people, who are in a difficult situation, are properly cared for. There is also a proposal from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and SV that we should use footlinks as an alternative before boarding. Nor do I doubt that the intention of that proposal is good, but I regret to say that this too could be detrimental to the children. It is stated in the comments of these parties that if the conditions of use of the footlink are violated, severe penalties must be imposed. I'll put the best of the child in front of it. So if we first order someone to use footlinks and break the terms, we have to punish the family, with the extra burdens that it will bring on the family, and then we have to internalize in the usual way, with the extra burdens that it would have to lead to. Although the purpose of testing electronic footlinks is first certainly good, I imagine that in many situations it can lead to extra loads – which are not intended – for the children, and that is something we should not use. If you're going to introduce something like this, you have to figure it out properly first. Very well known, there are no countries that use footlinks in foreign affairs in this way, and there are certainly good reasons for this. That is why, in the Progress Party, we primarily support the proposal as it stands, but we support the solutions proposed by the Central Party in a secondary way, and we support secondary proposal No. Six, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1863	We're going to try again, now that we've come to the right part of the Foreign Affairs Act. For the proposition that is being dealt with today, as I said earlier, applies, among other things. Chapter 12 of the Foreign Act on the use of coercive measures has been widely agreed on the need to revise the legislation on the use of coercive measures in order to clarify what is needed. Various evaluations and proposals have been made during the Committee's proceedings, and one of them concerns a very important aspect, namely the provision on the detention of children. I believe that the central party – and insofar as all parties – is the starting point is that children should not experience being interned or imprisoned, either with their family or alone, but that it may be necessary to use coercive measures when a family that has received a final refusal to apply for asylum or stay in Norway refuses to accept the decision that they must return to their home country, i.e. as the last resort. All parties believe that it is necessary to legislate that families with children can only be housed in their own children’s and family receptions that are specially organised. I am pleased to stress that families with children cannot be interned in the international space at Trandum, as practice has been in the past. A temporary detention centre has now been established for families with children in Hurdal before the permanent detention centre to be built on Eidsvoll is completed. The situation of families with children in detention centres has improved and the reception in Hurdal has been shown to work. The centre party forms part of a majority of the committee which considers that there is a major weakness in the proposition that the government does not propose alternatives to detention when children are involved. Norwegian and international law requires authorities to seek alternative alternatives and as a last resort to child imprisonment. The State was recently convicted of a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights for the Prison of a Family with Children. That is why the majority argues that the detention of children should only occur once other alternatives have been tried by the authorities. This is not done to a sufficient extent in Norway today in our view. In the Committee's position, there is a major discussion about the use of electronic control by footlinks, and I am pleased that all batches agree that it may be necessary to find alternatives to incarceration. The minority proposal has been to bring up the legislative changes necessary for electronic control to be applied, while the Right Party and the Advance Party have requested that electronic control be investigated. The centre party is today promoting a proposal where the government asks us to investigate the use of electronic control as an alternative to detention in the form of detention of families with children to be forced to return. I hope – and I hear from the debate – that we can receive subsidiary support for our proposal for such an investigation. Since everyone in the room really agrees that the use of electronic control might be a current alternative to internment, it would be a pity if we hadn't ended up getting such an investigation. When the Centre Party considers that an investigation is necessary before making a decision on the use of electronic controls, it is because this is considered to be a very invasive measure that can create situations that are traumatic. The use of such measures in relation to a family that does not have skilled personnel and children’s professional competence around it may create difficult-to-control situations. It may also be that other alternatives to detention should be included in such an investigation. The Centre Party has stressed that when decisions are taken on the detention of pre-shipment families, it is important that this is a short-term measure. The internment of children should and should not really exceed 24 hours, but there may be exceptions where it is better to extend detention than to make repeated appeals and to implement new detentions. Such derogations must be strictly regulated and justified separately. The central party has considered that the government has set up too broad a framework for such detention. However, we are also sceptical about the proposal that has been promoted by the minority, with an absolute ceiling of 72 hours. This may mean that families which for various reasons are not transported on a planned basis may be subjected to several attacks, which would have to be experienced as being very dramatic for the children involved. Then, in our opinion, it would be better to stay at the detention centre for a few more days. The centre party has promoted two own proposals, which I hope to have the House's support here today as subsidiary support. I'm taking up the proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1888	The representative willfred Nordlund then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1893	Refugee and asylum policy is testing us all the time. It also shows this case. It is sad that Norway had to get a conviction against it in order to change the system that has made us practically imprisoned children. It's not just this government's responsibility, and I want to give praise to the government because they have now established the family unit in Hurdal. That's good. But there are other aspects to this matter that I think you stay too little. Everyone says we have to have a good return policy. That is the agreement – you have to have a return policy that works. Then it is critical that the government has cut off the voluntary return of the receptions, which we know is the absolutely most humane way of being returned. It could take some time to convince people. Some of them think they're persecuted, and they're scared, or they've made every effort to get asylum, but they don't. It may take some time, but if we're going to take our obligations, especially after the Children's Convention, seriously, we should take the time it takes to convince more people that travelling voluntarily is a better arrangement, because that's it. And it's like with the Children's Convention that it doesn't allow Norwegian authorities to expose children to something that's not for the child's best, to sail if their parents don't behave the way we want, or to believe that their parents are guilty. Norwegian authorities have a maritime responsibility to care for the child’s best in all their actions, whatever the case may be. SV wants us to put much more emphasis on having good, strong and much more comprehensive programmes to ensure voluntary return for these families. This is in the light of what we also need to see the proposal that SV is proposing here, where we believe that minors should in any case not be able to stay for more than 72 hours. Several of the returns we have seen have been poorly planned. Some of them have been well aware that their parents are ill. Not long ago there was such a return, which at the time was a church asylum case. That family hasn't returned, either, because Dad's sick. I have asked the government if it is such that it is now even more demanding to get up the number of returns. There has been a problem before the use of resources has been made of a frightened five - year - old family in church asylum. It requires less resources than taking someone who is criminal and dangerous to others, and we all agree that the police should give priority first. The government answers no, that's not the way it is. However, I wonder how to plan this, when it has ended up like this. Here there is reason to put some strict rules for the sake of the children and for the government to do its work so thoroughly that no more such situations can be experienced. So to the discussion about alternative solutions to prisoning children. In the last growing-up period, SV promoted a proposal together with the Christian People's Party and the Left where we referred to both footlinks and that there are many other countries that use different forms, such as the place of residence and various other things as alternatives. We ask the government to investigate this widely. The government should do that. With regard to the proposal for electronic control, SV is involved, but we are not aware of the comments made by the representative of Engen-Helgheim. [[The President clubs.]] We disagree with them and believe – yes, then I get to sign an article later. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1910	Time's up. The representative must address his/her suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1918	I refer to the suggestions in the setting that SV has on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1923	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1928	The left is pleased that the bill seeks to clarify and clarify the rules applicable to the use of coercive funds under the Foreign Affairs Act. The use of coercive substances, in the ultimate consequence of imprisonment, is very dramatic for those affected. The left supports a number of the proposals, but not all. This bill has been drawn up before the Left joined the government, and we have therefore only had the opportunity in the Storting to assess its content. Inclusion of children has, of course, received the most attention in the Committee's consideration of the proposals. The situation on Trandum has been totally unsustainable, and families with children have been interned for too long periods. The left is therefore pleased that families with children are no longer to be interned on Trandum. Trandum is not a suitable place for children. The government is now working to establish a permanent child and family home at Eidsvoll, and until it is in place, the temporary boarding school at Haraldvangen will be used. In several budget rounds, the Left has contributed to ensuring more resources to strengthen the child-reliance skills of the Police Foreign Unit. The implementation of forced returns has not taken sufficient account of the children affected. By no longer using Trandum, and by establishing a safer and better framework around what is still a dramatic situation, the situation has improved. In addition, we need to look at whether the attacks can also be done in a more gentle way for the children. In Norway, we do not imprison children by criminal acts, either alone or with their families. Correspondingly, this should apply in the case of postings, even when children are interned with their parents. According to Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, incorporated in Norwegian law and in the Constitution § 104, the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration in all matters relating to children. Furthermore, Article 37b of the Convention on the Rights of the Child states that children shall be deprived of liberty only as a last resort and for the shortest possible time. This implies that other alternatives must have been tested first. In most cases, incarceration for 24 hours is sufficient to carry out a return, and this should therefore also be the clear rule. However, we recognise that there may be conditions that require detention for up to 72 hours. Such an approach would be a strong intensification of the practice that has taken place in recent years. It also implies that forced return of families with children needs to be planned and implemented in a different way than for adults. Force returns are actually – and should be – the last resort. The left is open to consider several alternatives to the internment of children. We are not convinced that footlinks are a good solution for the children. Experience with the use of footlinks as an alternative to ordinary housing is not directly transferable by being in a forced situation. In such a situation, it is important that the whole family receive the necessary professional follow-up, and it is not obvious that you will get this if you stay outside a reception. However, we are open to further investigation and hope that other possibilities will also be considered. More work should be done to obtain voluntary return of families with children. Voluntary returns make it easier to get started with the new life after return. The framework for the detention of children will be the same for children who are interned with their parents and for children who are interned on their own. However, children who are interned on their own are in an extra vulnerable situation, without anyone relying on them. For these children, it is also important that we look at alternatives to incarceration. We therefore support the proposal to look at real alternatives to internment for these children. Finally, on our vote: we support the proposal for a decision by an overall committee that families with children should only be housed in their own children's and families' centres, which are specially organised for minors. In addition, we support minority proposals Nos. One, two, five, six.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1945	Children on the run are particularly vulnerable and completely innocent in their situation. We therefore have a special responsibility to ensure that children who have come to Norway are treated in a good and safe way. The matter we are dealing with today deals with several aspects, but this is essentially about children's legal certainty. The internment of children raises several fundamental issues, and although the law, to which the Central Party today gives its support, tightens the legislation, I am disappointed that the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left does not get a majority. For the Christian People's Party, the assessment of what's best for the child has been the fundamental concern in dealing with this matter. When it comes to the step of forcing a family to return, it is absolutely essential that this be done in a way that is as gentle as possible for the children. Detention is one of the most intrusive states that can impose on an individual. It is therefore essential that the legislation be designed in a way that does not conflict with fundamental human rights. Last year the state was sentenced to the law for, among other things, the duration of the stay of a family of children on Trandum. The Court found that the detention in the present case was contrary to the law. In addition, it broke with the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. It's totally unsustainable. We must therefore ensure that the law is good within the Constitution and our obligations under international law. In its opinion on the matter, the National Institute for Human Rights has stated to the Committee that neither the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights or the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child imposes an absolute ban on the detention of children, but the conditions are strict and the State's scope for action is harsh. The European Court of Human Rights practice shows that the key elements of the assessment of the detention of children are the physical conditions of the detention centre, the age of the child and the duration of the detention. The Convention on the Rights of the Child obliges Norway to ensure that detention is only a last resort and for the shortest possible period of time. In order to ensure that we are good within our obligations under international law, the Christian People's Party, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left have proposed that the main rule of detention for children should be set at 24 hours, but that it may exceptionally be extended to 72 hours if someone in the family gets sick, or if there is new information on the matter. Unfortunately, there is no majority for this, because the Central Party has chosen to give support to the Right and the Advance Party, and I must say that is disappointing. But what is positive is that a Joint Committee supports the proposal for clear requirements for the physical conditions of the detention centre and, not least, the content and offer of the children and families. The Christian People's Party has been committed to ensuring that children cannot be interned at Trandum, but in their own children's and family's homes. This is important in view of the criticism that the Civil Ombudsman has brought to the family unit at Trandum. I am therefore pleased that this is now being adopted. But, as I said, the Convention on the Rights of the Child sets clear limits to the fact that the incarceration of children is only one of the last resorts. Therefore, the option of repatriation detention must be considered before we go to the serious step of invading children. Today, however, there are no alternatives to incarceration. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that electronic footlinks for parents in forced return should be introduced as an alternative to detention. The background is that you can get a better process for your children when they're going out of the country. It will give them the opportunity to say good-bye to their classmates and friends and ensure better treatment of their children by forced repatriation. Neither electronic footlink nor internment are optimal solutions. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that more effort must be made to work on voluntary returns, and those who do not have the basis for staying in Norway, families who have been refused, must be helped to understand the rejection and why they are not allowed to stay. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the provision of information at reception, since this will mean that there will be fewer coercion and that it will prevent children from being interned. That is why I would like to point out the proposals that the rapporteur has made on behalf of SV, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1960	The government has put forward a proposal for a comprehensive revision of the rules on coercive measures of the Foreign Affairs Act, i.e. on investigation, seizure, reporting and specific place of residence, and on seizure and detention. The relevant rules are important for the implementation of Norwegian immigration policy. The rules are mainly justified either by the need to clarify the identity of a foreigner or by the need to make a forced return of someone subject to a foreign obligation. I believe that the bill makes the legislation much clearer than it is today. These changes will thus enhance the legal certainty of those to whom the coercive measures are addressed. These changes will also help to make working life easier for professionals — the police, lawyers and courts. I am therefore very pleased that the main parts of the proposals have been well received in the hearing and that an overall committee has supported most of the proposals. That part of the bill that has created the most discussion concerns access to the detention of children. In order to implement Norwegian immigration policy, it is very important that the legislation, including in the case of families with children, contains sufficient instruments to achieve rapid transport after refusal for those who do not use organised assisted return schemes. If an effective return process is not enforced, cases of families living in Norway occur long after rejection. This in turn leads to individual cases of aggravating return of families with children who have established strong links before transporting actually takes place. This is a situation where there is broad political agreement that it is important to avoid. Experience with families with children who do not send is not special for Norway either. That is why we also find legislation and the possibility of apprehending and incarceration of families with children in the countries we usually compare with, as well as in the EU Return Directive. Countries that have tried to cut the use of detention against families with children have experienced difficulties in obtaining return. This applies, inter alia, to: Belgium and the Netherlands, which have therefore reintroduced the use of detention. The bill proposes a separate paragraph, § 106c, which ensures the legal certainty of children in matters of detention in a better way than today. I note that this is also stated by the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights. The provision in question provides, inter alia, for: a clear requirement to be made clear in the knowledge of detention how the best interests of the child and the options for alternative measures have been assessed. In addition, entirely new time limits have been proposed, which are significantly shorter than today’s opportunities for the detention of families with children for two weeks at a time. I note from the committee position that a minority in the Committee has made proposals for a time limit of 24 and 72 hours respectively for the detention of families with children. I believe that the proposition explains in detail why such a time limit – especially if it should be as scarce as 72 hours – is unfortunate. The deadline will set a clear target for those entering to oppose return, and may also have the consequence that in some cases families will have to be released from detention after three days in order to be re-triggered, for example. Two days later. If we assume that the attack itself will often be the most uplifting thing for the children, it's hard to see that this can be for the child's best. I believe that such a time limit as the minority suggests, is also completely unnecessary after we have now established our own family unit with a much more civil and family-friendly character than was the case with Trandum. I stress that there are neither high barbed wire fences nor flying noise around the new unit, and families are not locked in the rooms. I believe it is a safe and good framework that, together with the legislative proposal, represents a clear improvement on the situation of families with children who have to be forced to return in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1981	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1986	The rules of the asylum system are clear. Those who finally get rejected are going out of the country, but we don't put children in prison. We owe the children that we try every other alternative before we put them in prison or closed reception. The government’s mission was to identify real alternatives to the imprisonment of children. It's not done. That there will be child-friendly prison is something, but it still has to be the last resort. Why has the government not identified alternatives other than the imprisonment of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1991	There are already different measures in place to get families out. In particular, we have a system where generous support can be provided to leave Norway on a voluntary basis. So we have a good system that helps us to have other opportunities to do that. To the extent that the police can avoid intruding families, they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e1996	However, support for volunteers who want to achieve a better return policy also for Norway has been cut off by the government. But over to what I'm concerned about: Electronic footlinks are well-known to the Minister of Justice. You want to use it more in more fields in the field of justice. It will provide control, flexibility for the police to plan their departure, and will provide children with the opportunity to stay in the vicinity until they leave. How is it that the Council of State believes that reverse-warning electronic control provides security and security for women exposed to violence and threats, while suddenly the same technology is not as secure in other areas? Is it really the case that the Council of State cannot guarantee the safety of that technology at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2003	It is possible to destroy a foot link or prevent the signal from those who are GPS-guided. So if you do something with your footlink when you're zoned and not going to see other people, of course, it's an apparatus that pulls out, if you see people moving into areas where they're not supposed to be. But you never want a guarantee. This is why most people have other means of ensuring safety. I mean, it won't spare children. I believe that footlinks will be an instrument that can help make it more difficult. If you want to know when to travel, it will lead to a much more difficult process for the children involved. That's exactly why the police put up these returns the way they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2008	In those cases where the police have decided to apprehend families, the provisions of Section 106 of the Act apply. There is a proposal that the Child Protection Service ‘should attend a meeting on detention if not considered unnecessary by law or child protection’, while the government’s proposal is that they should find it necessary – that is, a reverse principle. SV believes that, as a principle, child protection should take part in these meetings and be able to take care of the interests of these children, as is the case with child protection. What is the reason why the government does not share the SV's view that it is only in those cases where it is explicitly considered unnecessary that child protection should not be present?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2014	We believe that it is legislated that child protection services should participate in detention meetings if the law or the child protection service considers it necessary to do so is sufficient. It will then be the expected time for the detention, which will be a central element in determining whether child protection should be provided. In cases where transport is expected to take place after one or two days, it is assumed that participation in the court hearing will rarely be required.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2019	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2026	This is a somewhat gloomy debate, and it is referred to judgments in the Court of Human Rights, etc. But it's fun to register, watch, listen and read, not least, outspoken hearings that are quite clear that the government guarantees the human rights of children to a far greater extent than in existing legislation. It is Norway's national human rights institution that made this statement in its opinion. A joint committee believes it should set out clear and fine demands for the design of child and family boarding centres. For me, this is a matter of self-order. When the committee was up at Haraldvangen and looked at the center there to replace what is at Trandum, it was fascinating to see how great it was prepared for families. I felt that there were many beautiful and nice additions, a forward-looking, nice crowd working up there. I asked the representative Lauvås why he wouldn't be there. No, the working party didn't intend to prioritize it; he put and wrote reading instructions and was busy playing games in the media. I think many could have benefited from seeing this center up there, a fantastic center. We actually saw a closed holiday centre, because I met people in retrospect who have actually used it for this. I really have to say that it was great, both with nature, the forest and the location. Everything up there was quite impressive, large and beautiful play area both outdoors and indoors – it was also mentioned earlier today – great children's professional competence among those who added, unbelievably good people who work well against health care and well up against child protection, and who had a good framework for this cooperation in a very satisfying, thoughtful and good way. The best thing we can do for the children in such a situation as this is that the centre of Eidsvoll, under construction, is just as good as what we've been looking up there. I thought, after being up there and seeing, that there was too much focus on alternatives. This with footlink and electronic monitoring is a completely wrong track, I think, when we see what negative consequences it has for those who feel like wearing it. The best thing is to make sure that this detention centre gets as civil a mark as possible, as we experienced up there in Haraldvangen. Then I think this is going to be a very nice center for those who, unfortunately, want to make a bow there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2035	What remains in this case is that too little has been done to investigate the alternatives to prison that already exist. It is not demonstrated that in all cases good judgment is given and such alternatives are used, such as: reporting obligation. The small exchange of lines I had with the Council of State now revealed that it would not be possible for child protection to take part in almost some of the cases in which children are interned, because the Council of State assumes that it will only take one to two days before the shipment takes place. And we get hope for that, but unfortunately, experience has shown that there are cases where it's not like that. Then the question is, when should child protection enter? It's at the beginning they're going to enter, according to SV's vision, in almost every case. Only in those cases where the protection of children is specific and the court has specifically stated that there is no need for it should it be. If not, it has not been ensured that the pediatric considerations have been adequately addressed. That is the reason for the legal text we have promoted, which states that child protection services are to attend detention meetings if not considered unnecessary by law or child protection. I would encourage the Storting to vote in favour of that bill, because I perceive that is what most people think it is. But now the state council revealed that it shouldn't be like that. Child protection shall not enter. They should be notified, but they should not enter. Then there is no one who takes care of the child's best and the best interests. This is a difficult thing. SV, as said, together with the Christian People's Party, also in the previous period, has proposed alternatives to the imprisonment of children. One of the methods that we also pointed out then is to use electronic control. We have wanted that, but we have not wanted to go as far as the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party do in their remarks, where they set a lot of conditions for what happens if this is broken. We do not think that is the basis for this, because then you can get into conflict with what is best for the child. We believe this should be tested, and not only this, but also all the other alternatives that exist and are in use in several countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2048	Now we have had a thorough debate. The point is that the detention of children should be the last resort. It's our international obligations that we have to deal with. That's why I understand that UNICEF is going to be disappointed with the bulk of the population in this room, which actually doesn't make it easy for us to have other alternatives. The government has not done its job. That's why we think electronic footlinks can be a good alternative that takes into account the child. And with good information and clarity that if you don't follow up on the trust given to your parents, the last resort is, of course, incarceration – but then we have given them a real alternative. I am pleased that we have listened to Save Barna and UNICEF and made this proposal. We have also stated that it should of course be an evaluation of this scheme, if it had been a majority for it. Subsidy, of course, we will support the proposal of the Centre when it comes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2053	I am a little uncertain about my entrance, because the representative Trellevik must have got a political drop or something like that – stand here and throw out accusations that the Workers' Party and I did not participate in a journey to Haraldvangen that was quickly decided, because I was to sit and write a reading post and mess with everything else! What in all days is what you allow! Get up here and regret these claims right away! [[The President clubs.]] What was the matter was that you did not get any replacements, because there was a meeting in Stortinget and you could get a vote. That's the thing. I am asking that the representative Trellevik be somewhat more despicable when he is standing on the Spokesman's chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2060	The President would point out that ‘political drip’ is hardly a parliamentary expression, and that it is important that we reflect on the voice of the Stortinge. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2078	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2087	As rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough and important work on this representative proposal from the SV and the Christian People's Party. The intention of the proposal is to ask the government to make proposals as soon as possible for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act which allow for a response to violations of the Foreign Affairs Act with non-refoulement and non-refoulement reactions. Some reason why the proposers wish to promote the proposal is that the number of expulsions due to violations of the Foreign Affairs Act has increased sharply in recent years. According to statistics from the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, 2,645 persons were expelled in 2017 due to violations of the Foreign Affairs Act, 3,929 in 2016 and 3,881 in 2015. In total, the number was less than 1000 per year until 2008 and the 20th century was well below 500 per year. There is an overall committee which points to the fact that decisions on expulsion and entry bans are not formally punishable but an administrative response established by the foreign authorities. Furthermore, it is important to stress that Section 108 of the International Criminal Code provides for fines and/or imprisonment to be imposed for up to six months in cases of intentional or negligent violation of the Foreign Affairs Act. It is the Riksadvokat who gives leadership on how the prosecution authority should give priority to criminal prosecution in cases of violations of the Foreign Affairs Act. Expulsion is assessed regardless of whether or not the foreigner is prosecuted. It is also important to stress that Section 70 of the Foreign Affairs Act should ensure proportionality and, in some cases, reduce the entry ban somewhat, for example: from five to two years. Furthermore, UNE and UDI have special knowledge and experience in handling cases and provide the best possible assessment in cases of non-residents’ violation. Today, a foreigner cannot be expelled if, taking into account the seriousness of the relationship and the connection of the foreigner to the rich, it would be disproportionate to the foreigner himself or to the immediate family members. In such cases involving children, the best interests of the child shall be considered as fundamental considerations. It is important to understand that although the objective conditions for expulsion are met, expulsion cannot be decided if the decision is a disproportionate measure to the foreigner himself or to his immediate family members. The requirement of proportionality is not only enshrined in the Foreign Affairs Act, but also in our international obligations. It is crucial whether the grounds for expulsion, i.e.: the seriousness of the infringement is proportionate to the negative effects it has on family and private life. This is carefully assessed before a decision is taken and it is also reflected in whether the expulsion is permanent or limited in time. It is certainly right, even in accordance with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, that foreign nationals may be expelled even if they have children in Norway and that this issue falls within the discretion of each State. With that I have explained the matter, and we in the Progress Party join the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2106	The rapporteur has now given a good account of the matter, and we support what is in the position of the majority. The number of expulsions due to violations of the Foreign Affairs Act has increased sharply. It's essential that we have a trust system where people sincerely provide correct information. Expulsion due to a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act is often used when asylum seekers have missed the exit period and are without a residence basis, or it may be ID-jux. It is about justice with regard to the decisions to be taken, which shall apply if you or yours fulfil the conditions laid down in the Foreign Affairs Act. Then there must be penalties when someone has deliberately failed to provide correct information. The representatives who have brought this case are concerned with the cases in which children are affected by penalties. Today the rules are such that the child's consideration and what is described as disproportionate is emphasised, but we support, of course, that: ‘The size calls on the government to investigate and to submit any proposals to amend the Foreign Affairs Act allowing the administration of foreign countries to supplement the use of expulsion and entry bans by a broader set of responses where specific circumstances so warrant, such as the best interests of children’. And then we're going to have an assessment of whether we can add new forms of reaction. Today, it is true that if there is a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act and it is found that with the current sanctions there are disproportionate measures against foreigners themselves or their immediate family members, there is no real consequence. Here you can actually add the necessary penalties as a day-to-day fine to be clear that the Foreign Affairs Act is based on trust, while considering supplementing with sanctions to ensure that the best interests of children are better than what we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2120	Let me start by thanking the proposers for paying attention to expulsion and entry bans. The number of expulsions has increased sharply in recent years. Deportation is, of course, a form of intervention, which should not be used in cases where less intervention can actually be found. Now I think fines, as the Workers' Party mentions as an example, may not be applicable, because then you have to have the money to pay the fines, and I guess they do, maybe they don't have it. But enough about it. The EU Return Directive is an important corrigendum in discussions on responses to non-residents who have missed the deadline for departure. This legislation states that expulsion decisions shall be taken in such cases, unless this is disproportionate. But it is not the case today that bans and bans are the only forms of reaction. In cases of intentional or negligent infringement, there are now some milder forms of reaction. We have, as I said, fines, which I have said that I think is quite demanding to impose, but we also have prison sentences. There are strict rules on when a foreigner can be expelled or not and persons cannot be expelled if there is a disproportionate measure against the foreigner himself or the immediate family members. It is the child's best that should be the fundamental consideration, and I believe that the proposers are particularly concerned about it. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State has clarified that criminal proceedings for serious infringements for reasons of legal certainty should lie with the prosecution authority in the criminal proceedings. That is why we believe that one should not replace the system with just fines or administrative infringement fees. But the right is going to vote with the rest of the Committee on the motion for a resolution, and we are looking forward to an investigation by the Council of State on the use of several forms of reaction as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, today's reaction forms.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2131	The centre party believes that it should continue to be possible to react with expulsion and entry bans in the event of a serious breach of the Foreign Affairs Act. Expulsion and entry bans are not formally punishable, but an administrative response established by the foreign authorities. The Foreign Affairs Act states that fines and/or prison sentences can be imposed on cases involving infringements of the Foreign Affairs Act, but this presupposes that the foreign authorities report the matter to the police and that the situation is judged in the courts. Proposals are of the opinion that proposals should be made to amend the Foreign Affairs Act so that the administrative responses may be different from the ban on expulsion and entry. The proposal points out that such reactions may be fines and/or period of quarantine for permanent residence permits and citizenship. These are reaction forms that affect the person who has committed the crime, but which affect the person’s family members to a lesser extent. In the Central Party, we have noticed that the UDI has made a similar proposal, but has not won the hearing of the Council of State. In her letter to the Committee, the Council of State has stated that she believes that the criminal response to serious offences should be left to the prosecution authorities. Expulsion and prohibition of entry are not to be regarded as punishment but as administrative forms of reaction. I think the proposers from the Christian People's Party and the SV have a good argument when they point out that many public authorities have the right to charge a fee in the event of a breach of legislation within their territory, without contradicting the fact that it is also possible to punish the same situation with fines and prisons. The comments also refer to Circular RS 2010-02, which states that, as a general rule, UDI should not report violations of the Foreign Affairs Act to the police if there are grounds for expulsion. In other words, the starting point is that there is an administrative response that is to be used primarily in response to violations of the Foreign Affairs Act, not punishment. The centre party does not wish to weaken the possibility of expulsion and entry bans in the event of a serious breach of the Foreign Affairs Act, but sees the need for the foreign authorities to have a broader set of responses when specific circumstances so warrant, such as the best interests of children. Together with the members of the Workers' Party, SV and the Christian People's Party, we promote a proposal asking the government to investigate and promote any proposals for changes to the Foreign Affairs Act that allow the use of expulsion and entry bans to be complemented by a broader set of reaction forms, such as administrative response forms, in the event of a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act. I must also say that it is difficult to see the principle of some of the reactions of the Right and the Advance Party on this proposal. They believe that the proposal will be resource-intensive to implement and address a number of challenges, including: the determination of the amount of the fees and the inability to pay for those charged. We know that the UDI has previously addressed similar arrangements to those that the majority will now have investigated. It should therefore not be so problematic for an overall increase to ask the government to come back with an investigation and any proposals to supplement the use of expulsion and entry bans for violations of the Foreign Affairs Act. This is particularly necessary in the interests of children. We've seen that in several cases lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2146	I am pleased that it seems that we are today taking a step closer to ensuring that the foreign administration has more options for action than expulsion and entry bans in the event of a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act. I would like to thank the representative Nordlund for the contribution he has just made. It took on what is the problem today, that in many of these cases the reaction becomes completely unfair with regard to the children and the family. The foreign authorities themselves have asked for more response options because they see that this is unreasonable, but they are therefore instructed not to send the case to the prosecution authorities that, if it had arrived, would have had a wider range of reaction forms. I've had a lot of these things on my table in the last few years. One of them is about a 9-year-old girl who says, when they took Mom, they broke our hearts. It was a family that had been in Norway for 10 years. Both children were born in Norway. Mother had made a mistake. Yes, she did. But is it reasonable and at all close to the best of the children that these children should be without a mother for 2 years? Because Mother was sent to Iraq, and it was not possible for the family to return after that. Of course, it wasn't for the children. Of course, it was not necessary for immigration-regulating reasons to act like this either. If the case had ended in a court of law, the result could have been different. But it didn't. We have probably all followed Dagsnytt eighteen where Christer Sanne has told his story about his Filipino wife and children in the family where Norway has helped with family reunification, but later expelled both wife and children. Again in Norway there is a man and a child who have lost their mother. It would not have done the least harm if in that situation you had found a different reaction form. The situation that people might understand best is about the Norwegian man who had an American wife who got a job in the Norwegian delegation in Brussels, who was there for 2 years, but forgot to submit the application that said that now I'm going to be out of the country for 2 years. She also goes out, and she has Norwegian children. That's what it's all about, and there the aliens say they have nothing else to do but this. So this has to change. Other forms of reaction need to be introduced here, which, in practice and for all purposes, provide the best for children in particular. It takes a lot to separate parents and children. We do that in situations where the parents are to the detriment of the children. It is in those cases that it may be legitimate for the authorities to do so. I'm not going to discuss whether there's a fine that's right in these cases. I think that there are other types of measures, such as: time-limits for obtaining citizenship, which will work, if one is concerned that there is justice in it, that there should be a reaction which really means something to him. There is SV busy. The point of our proposal is to have a broader set of reaction patterns in these cases, which can distinguish between what is a very serious crime, and what is a minor error – or a white lie, that some in a terrible situation in their lives might have been hurt to say. There are others who say things that are not right, we've seen. It has to be a reaction to it, but of course within the limits of reasonableness. As it is now, it is not within reasonable limits that families should not get together when the offense is not large or in any way threatens the Norwegian community or the Norwegian legal system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2159	First of all, I would like to thank the co-rapporteur for a good cooperation on the proposal for a representative. Today's legislation relating to the violation of the Foreign Affairs Act is very rigid and square, and this means that families have to be split up. It's unfortunate, and I'm therefore glad that we are moving forward today towards a more fair treatment of such matters. The proposal promoted by the SV and the Christian People's Party will ensure a fairer and fairer outcome of violations of the Foreign Affairs Act. The way the law is designed today, the outcome will have major consequences for those involved. Expulsions due to a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act have increased significantly in recent years, and according to figures from the Foreign Affairs Directorate, 10 455 persons have been expelled from 2015 to 2017 due to a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act. By comparison, the number was less than 1000 per year until 2008, and by 2000 it was well below 500 people per year. Decisions on expulsion and entry bans are formally not a penalty, but an administrative response determined by the foreign authorities. For many, however, such a response may be more of a punishment than an administrative decision. Due to the lack of tools for the foreign administration to take reaction forms other than expulsion and entry bans, parents and children are split. It's unfortunate. I am therefore pleased that a majority in the Committee has now agreed that the government must investigate and promote any proposals to amend the Foreign Affairs Act that allow the administration of foreign countries to complement the use of expulsion and entry bans with a broader set of forms of reaction when specific circumstances so warrant, such as the consideration of the best interests of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2172	On the one hand, the question of alternative means of expulsion is discussed by the Committee as a question of a charging scheme for minor infringements of the foreign law which does not currently lead to expulsion and, on the other hand, as a question of alternative measures to soften practices in cases where expulsion decisions are taken today. As I have described in my letter to the Committee, I believe that there are important practical arguments against introducing a charging scheme in cases where it is not currently outsourced. In particular, I would like to point out the administrative challenges and the relationship with the fines. As regards the question of finding alternatives to deportation to soften practices, I would first like to stress that violations of the Foreign Affairs Act are a serious problem. One of the main objectives of migration policy is that immigration should be carried out legally in tidy forms. Therefore, immigration regulation is based in many contexts on confidence that individuals provide correct information to the authorities and that the conditions of entry and residence are respected. Nevertheless, when we experience a very high number of known crimes and attempts at fraud, including cases of illegal entry, illegal residence, illegal work, false information on ID, false information on nationality, false information on family relationships, pro forma marriages and fabricated asylum history, strict expulsion practices are very important. With regard to the proposal to consider alternatives to expulsion in matters relating to children, I would first like to stress that I agree, of course, that special attention should be paid to children. However, as I stressed to the Committee, this has already been achieved by making it clear explicitly from the law that the best interests of the child should be of fundamental importance. The foreign regulation imposes strict restrictions on expulsion practices in cases where the foreigner lives in family life with children in Norway. In other words, it is only in more serious cases that the expulsion is actually taking place, and in such cases, in my opinion, expulsion is also in place. This must have been the intention of previous governments, because today's legislation is not new. I noticed that the representatives from SV and the Christian People's Party refer to the use of the fee in particular. traffic issues justifying their proposal for the use of charges in the event of a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act. I would like to make it clear here that the use of the charge in traffic matters would typically apply in the case of infringements such as missing warning triangle, forgotten driving licenses or illegal driving with high-lift tyres. To me, it seems very unclear what would be an appropriate standard fee for those who have taken up residence in Norway by lying about their identity and nationality. Are we talking about $1,000, $2,000, $5,000? I believe, in any case, that it would not provide sufficient social protection if a foreigner who has committed serious violations of Norwegian law and cheated to stay in Norway could put a line over the relationship with some keystrokes in the online bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2185	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2190	Essentially, we think that there is no penalty for fines in these cases, but rather the suspension of various types of authorisation. The Council of State considered that the concerns of the children were taken into account in these cases. Then I have to ask, how can the consideration of the children be taken care of when parents and children are split up and cannot be together for several years? Five years in a child's life is very long. It's an incalculable long time. How have children been taken into account if you think it is right that these families should not be together and that this is no more important than immigration-regulating considerations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2198	Decisions in individual cases are taken by the non-resident authorities. I trust them to do that in a good way. If such decisions are taken, it is due to the gravity of the case and the fact that there is information that does not justify the continuation of the procedure in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2203	Does what the Council of State now says, that there is something about the law that lies there, that makes it so, or is this a political assessment that the government is behind, that makes it so? There are two different relationships. We can discuss whether the underlying law meets well with what we want to achieve with this law, but my question is whether we actually care for the child's best. It is in very few cases that it is in the best interests of the child not to be able to grow up with both of his parents, if there are no reasons why they should not. But here, there are no reasons that are different than the immigration-regulating considerations, on which the Council of State spent a lot of time in its contribution. Is it the case that the Council of State will not engage in this and will not look at the underlying law, or does she just blindly trust that these decisions are correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2210	It is not the government that makes decisions in individual cases. I have faith that the foreign agencies are doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2215	It could have been tempting to ask the Council of State, since she has confidence that the foreign agencies are making good decisions, and they have asked for a wider range of responses, whether there is anything she is willing to look at. There is no one in this room who has said that we should remove the forms of reaction bans and expulsions in the event of a serious breach of the Foreign Affairs Act. What you want is a broader set of reaction forms, where the best interests of children are to be taken into account. When the UDI has asked for a broader set of responses, does that mean that, since she has confidence in the foreign authorities, the Council of State considers it appropriate to introduce it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2222	I believe, in principle, that we have a good regulatory framework in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2227	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 9 and 10 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2260	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2269	As the rapporteur for three motions for resolutions on document 8, the proposals from the Red Party, the Workers' Party and the SV respectively, I would like to say that it is a great, demanding and important work that has been presented in the Innst. 131 S. Innst. 131 S also includes discussion of the realities of the two proposals from the Workers' Party and the Centre for concrete legislative amendments, as can then be seen from the Innst. 132 L. It's a very cracking setting. There is a fairly small consensus in the committee. As the rapporteur, I have seen the need for a thorough review of questions, so it is a rarely comprehensive setting. I believe that it is better to have comprehensive and accurate settings than short and superficial settings. That is the background for the job I have done as the rapporteur. It is important to get cant above this theme. It is important to get an overview of the whole thing that we are going to deal with, so that we can gather together on the most important issues that need to be addressed. On the part of the Centre Party, concrete legislative proposals are presented, with the support of the Joint Union and the LO, and also the National Association of Construction Industries in the NHO. I should like to commend the cooperation I have had with both representatives of the Landsorganisationen and representatives of the BNL in the NHO, as rapporteur of the case. It has been absolutely necessary to get an overview of a very demanding and difficult topic. For more and more professionals, Norwegian employment is becoming increasingly unsafe, and, at the same time – I would like to stress it – that serious employers must lose out on unfair competition. Both employees and employers are in a situation they do not want. This cannot continue. Therefore, the Labour Protection Act, the Labour Environment Act, needs to be tightened up. The Labour Inspectorate must now be given the power to strike down and punish what is illegal, in accordance with the necessary clarified legislation. The Centre Party promotes concrete and necessary legislative changes to the Working Environment Act at the time of treatment today. The legislative proposals are a necessary step towards continuing tripartite cooperation in Norwegian working life between the employer side, the employee side and the country. The core problem, however, is that the state – and represented by Prime Minister Erna Solberg – opposes legislative changes that tighten the rules of the Norwegian labour market. This is why the development of more and more people is moving from bad to worse. Now we don't just have the discussion about the last wall, we also have the equivalent for the last template. Construction Management companies, CM, compete with solid builders because CM companies do not have permanent employees craftsmen but use sub-contractors renting labour from manpower companies. We're not going to have it like that in Norwegian working life. Game rules have to be changed. Ordinary craftsmanship firms with permanent staff and apprentices shall, on the contrary, be invited to tender. With today's working environment there is a systematic deterioration in pay and working conditions for more and more occupations. Professionals in aviation and in the driver's profession are of those who are hit hard and unfairly. Interested young people see that they need to opt out of practical training, whether they are motivated by practical work. A good family life requires a well-organised working life. Fixed employment provides security for work and when to work, and thus also for security of income. This shall be done in accordance with Norwegian pay and working conditions. Finally, I just want to remind you of the Basic Law § 110, where it says: «The authorities of the Member States shall facilitate any person who is capable of working for the purpose of living at work or at work. The person who is unable to provide his own living shall have the right to public support.’;» So this is the challenge. We need to ensure that we get permanent employment for employees, while at the same time providing the necessary flexibility for the employer. This is apparent from the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2291	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2296	The representative takes up the proposal of the Central Party and the Socialist Left in case No. 10 plus the two solutions that have been submitted to case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2301	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2306	Today, we are dealing with several representative proposals that deal with the type of working life we want, how we care for the needs of businesses for flexibility, and not least how we guarantee workers' rights and the need for security, predictability and flexibility and ensure people outside the labour market a foothold. Having a job to go to is essential for most people. Having the ability to support themselves and their families, to have a social community and to exploit their abilities and knowledge is important. It is also important that we facilitate business, so that they can create safe and good jobs, and also have a business life that is flexible when the job volume fluctuates. Although several government measures work, and unemployment falls, we still have too many people out of work, especially in terms of health-related benefits. Many have holes in the CV and are not necessarily completely A4. There may be people who are struggling with various disabilities, intoxication, mental illness, lack of education or anything else. We must then ask questions about our working life is flexible enough to have room for everyone, or whether we have arranged the working life too much for those who are healthy, do not have holes in the CV and fit into the traditional working life. Therefore, it has been a goal for the Progress Party and the government to create a more flexible working life in which the door must be wide and wide, so that as much as possible its working capacity can be used. The general rule should be, and is, fixed employment, as it creates the most predictability and security for the individual, but we need to have room that in some cases it is not the right thing for the individual employee or company. Fortunately, the use of rentals and the manning industry is relatively low. It represents a place between 1 and 2 pst. by workers in Norway. The challenge has been that the level has become too high in the construction industry, especially in the Oslo area. The government has therefore sent several proposals to the hearing and also announced that it will bring a case this spring. Here we will address the challenges. However, addressing the challenges does not mean going to the drastic grips that several of the proposals address today. The ban on temporary employment, renting or the manning industry will lead to fewer people getting a foot in the workplace, fewer getting the CV filled up, and fewer being tested for their ability to work. It may also lead to fewer fixed-term jobs. For an enterprise, the use of temporary and temporary employment and hired labour can cause them to dare to take on opportunities and take on tasks that are larger than they initially have employees for. If a job is temporary, it may be too risky to employ people permanently. Enterprises may also have a short-term need for special skills to solve tasks that they normally do not need to solve, and it may be natural to hire labour. Some are also concerned about the deterioration of working conditions in the use of temporary labour, but this is not true as temporary workers are entitled to and require the same working conditions as other employees. A lot has been said about this in the public debate for a long time. But I think it's also good to get some facts about temporary employment. Then you can go to the SSB labour force survey, which shows that approx. 40 pst. of the temporary staff do not want a permanent job. Of those temporarily employed in 2015, it was only approx. 30 pst. who was temporarily employed the following year. The majority of temporary staff are young people, of whom between 15 and 24 years of age report that there are nearly half studies that are their main activity and that temporary employment was desirable. It is, after all, the largest public use of temporary employment. The use of temporary employment is significantly lower than it was in time. In 1996, the use was 12.7 p.m. Fixed posts shall be, and are, the general rule. At the same time, we must not prevent flexibility or prevent people from getting the opportunity to try, and businesses must also have the opportunity to exercise the necessary flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2333	Renting and temporary work takes place in Norwegian working life. It has great consequences, especially for the workers, who see fixed employment being displaced by temporaryity and who experience that planning family life, the future, and not least the economy, is becoming more difficult. They see that potential jobs go to unprofessional actors who rely largely on the hiring of foreign labour. These are real workers that we depend on in the construction of the country, and they feel that they are failing. That's why we've seen massive protests also outside of the Storting, demonstrations, cries to be seen and heard, and the message from us is: We hear. It also has consequences for the serious employers in Norway, who feel that they are increasingly being competed by unprofessional players, that labour and social dumping almost have no consequences for those who are involved, and that they themselves have to start renting in order to have a chance at all to participate in the competition. These are employers who feel a responsibility for their employees and their families but who do not have the opportunity to ignore developments. And an almost assembled employer’s page – if we peel away NHO Service – says to Stortinget: Take responsibility, give us better conditions of competition, don’t stand and watch us get out of competition. And the message from us to them is: We hear. It also has implications for serious work life and for the degree of organisation in Norway. We see a falling level of organisation across Europe. In Norway it is now the lowest in the Nordic region, at less than 50 pst. We see a failing recruitment of apprentices and a falling productivity, and we hear an overall trade union movement say: we need changes now, before it's too late. And the message from us is: We hear. The government is passive. The issue we are discussing today is not new at all. We've been trying for many years to get the government to hear, to act, but the government, and the right side, is uninterested. That's why we're in the serious situation we're doing, because of the government's inaction. In fact, the policy of the right-hand side helps to reinforce the problems – for workers, for industry and for Norway’s competitiveness. This cannot continue. That is why, in the Labour Party, we have promoted a number of proposals along with the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. The angle of incidence may be different, but in sum we agree on the absolute majority, and we vote in favour of each other's proposals. The Labour Party shall have inter alia: promoted a proposal for a representative to remove general access to temporary employment and to reintroduce collective redress. Together with SV, we are promoting, as an immediate measure, a proposal for a ban on rentals in the geographical or industrial areas with the greatest challenges – as proposed by Red in its proposal for a representative: a ban on rentals in the Oslofjord area. I would also like to boast about the rapporteur, who has done a great deal of work to promote concrete proposals for legislative decisions, and we are voting in favour of them in a subsidiary way. The problem is that the right-hand side ignores the proposals and votes down on everything we propose, and we don't get a majority for any of what I've said so far. That's why, from the Labour Party, we have done a lot of work, along with the parties on the left, to look at what can unite us, and I'm happy with the constructive discussions we've had. We have tabled a proposal, proposal No. 6, for which we now have the opportunity to have a majority. That possibility must not be allowed to go away by the Storting. It will mean a big step in the right direction, not far enough, but it will give a clear message to the government to deliver. I hope the proposal gets a majority, so that the Storting can show that we take responsibility where the government fails. With this, I address the suggestions the Workers' Party is standing alone or together with SV about in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2356	The representative of Arild Grande has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2361	Rough, organised labour-life crime undermines not only a tidy working life and the funding of the welfare state, but also exploits people and systems intended to safeguard their rights. That is why we must fight against both the crime of working life and the inexorable conditions of working life. But then we have to target it, not criminalise legitimate businesses and make it more difficult for Norwegian businesses by restricting their opportunities. Today, we are debating several proposals that are all about the same, ensuring a clean working life. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left believe that a well-regulated and decent working life is the foundation of a well-functioning society. The government's objective is a safe and flexible, low-free and high-employment labour market. This is essential to ensure the sustainability of the welfare society. The main rule in Norwegian working life is regular employment. Renting and temporary posts shall be a supplement. There are major challenges in some industries, and the government is very serious about the conditions that have been identified, among other things. in the construction industry, especially in the Oslo area. The government has put in place several measures to combat unprofessional actors. Seven a-krim centres have been established and closer cross-border cooperation has been established, with similar supervision in Lithuania, Bulgaria and Poland. The Prime Minister has also taken initiatives vis-à-vis the EU and has invited a joint fight against labour crime. The Ministry sent out three proposals for consultation in June 2017. It was proposed to define fixed-term employment, to provide a new basis for temporary employment in recruitment agencies and to draw up a proposal for a quota for the number of leased-in enterprises. These recordings are under way in the ministry, and it is well known that the government will make proposals for the Storting during the spring session. It is, of course, quite legitimate to make proposals in order to make impatience manifest. But when the former government partners, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV do not even manage to merge on one solution, it seems more like a political game than the actual will for political solutions. The NHO and the LO have also been in dialogue, but it has been difficult to find a solution that the parties can agree on. This case has many aspects, and several of them may have unintended consequences. A ban would have been very unfortunate for our business, and we believe that it could also have led to a more unsafe working life in the form of more lay-offs and redundancies. Norwegian working life must be flexible so that one can take the tops, while one can be in competition when new jobs are published. On the other hand, it is important to recognise that some groups face challenges in entering the labour market. The government will therefore lower the threshold into the labour market and have better cooperation between employers, Nav, the manning industry, management companies and other actors. The opening of temporary employment and the hiring of labour are strictly regulated by the Labour Environment Act. When the government introduced in 2015 a general access to temporary employment, it also tightened the legislation. The introduction of the agency directive in 2013 helped to strengthen the fight against social dumping and provides for equivalent pay and working conditions in Norway and Europe. Equal treatment is a fundamental principle, but we also recognise that violations of these provisions are being committed in parts of the world of work. This is by no means acceptable, and there is a relationship that one has to deal with and hit hard. Those who want the manning industry to life are talking about renting as a challenge, but are less concerned with the difference between subcontracting and renting. The question is: do any tools work? In a debate we can always play on emotions and rough examples, but it also deserves to be based on facts. The majority of Norwegian working lives are permanently employed. Only 8 pst. is in a temporary position and Fafo estimates that 1,5-2 pst. of all annual works are leased in. In construction, there are 7 pst. and up to 15 pst. in the Oslo area, but it cannot generally be said to fill the whole area. Action must be based on facts. The government has ordered an inquiry into different forms of employment relations that will be submitted during 2018. Here one has also taken in the construction industry. There will also be an evaluation of the introduction of general access to temporary employment. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV write in their comments that ‘each responsible employer tries to adapt the amount of work of the enterprise to its crew’. I have a hard time believing that they can mean that. If we are to have Norwegian jobs where more jobs are created, companies must have the opportunity to adapt the manning to the amount of work, and not the other way around. We need companies that take employment risks, not companies that preserve. Then, as responsible politicians, we must use instruments that punish the unprofessional, while at the same time not tightening our legs under the serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2390	I want to start by taking advantage of the opportunity to thank the case spokesman for a thorough job on the proposals. The crew industry has been growing up a lot in recent years. He is now so big that one in some industries almost has a monopoly on jobs. It was never the intention when it was opened for this type of employment service. On Finn.no today is 83 pst. of all the options in the category carpenters/female workers in Rogaland announced by a staffing agency. Such a strong monopoly in a dynamic labour market is very unfortunate. I don't know anyone who wants a job in a temporary agency in the first place. The reason for this is very simple: with such a job, you don't get a decent professional development, you don't get a mortgage, so you can't buy a dwelling. And one is not particularly secure income in the future because the contract has a time limit. The manpower industry is also a clear contributor to the crime of working life. When I say that, the NHO Service and Trade jump in the chair and say that one can't cut everyone over one bowl, and that their businesses are basically serious. They may be, but there's a lot of confusion about these companies. They pop up and put in the cabin and the weather. It is among these agencies that we see a failing and missing attempt to comply with the law. And what is the degree of organisation of the staffing agencies? I don't know. For me, it looks like the NHO doesn't know either. They don't have an overview of what's of the agency at any time all the time the National Association of Construction is as critical as they are. No one is in control of the crew members - who is in charge, and who is in charge. It is very unfortunate, especially when we know what this industry is mainly about: distributing workers at the lowest possible price. It is true that there are also many recruitment agencies that do things right according to the law, but it is nevertheless a form of use and waste of labour, and it weakens the individual's security of income. It is far too easy for these companies to create an unculture for professional organisation. It's too easy not to give a new assignment to an added one that has come up with criticism in some way. That in itself is a great threat to say from behind. It leads to an unculture that doesn't fit in Norway, which leads to an imbalance of labour force at the expense of workers. I've visited countless construction sites in a role like the LO summer patrol. There I have tried to talk to a member of the staff agency and experienced a alarming fear of talking about working conditions. It's a fear that doesn't fit into a serious work life. To the extent that SV will have employment services, it shall be between production companies or through a stronger public communication that does not tend to provide money to provide the lowest possible labour force. In Norway, wages are negotiated between the social partners, not as an abuse of power in competition to offer work at the lowest possible price. With the contribution of free labour immigration from the EU, this leads workers to stand with hua in their hands and to accept employment regardless of the conditions. It's time to clean up the world of work. We therefore propose concrete legislative proposals on a number of changes that are necessary both for the National Association of Construction and for the Joint Union of Mining. With this, I take up the proposal that SV says only in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2405	The representative Solfrid Lerbrück then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2410	A safe and inclusive working life is an important goal for the Left, and the government's inclusion virtue was an important breakthrough for the Left in the government platform. We want to provide a brighter, more inclusive working life where there is room for people to be different, and so we need to use a broader set of tools to include everyone. Tripartite cooperation has been an important part of the construction of society in Norway: trust, respect, cooperation between the main actors. It has given you a safe work life and a low level of conflict. The labour and welfare state is undergoing a very rapid and extensive change. It may be more difficult than ever to see what skills the labour market will need, what competition it will be for the labour force, and how it will be regulated in a more globalised value. So we have to think about several areas. Let me make it clear first: the right to organise is fundamental. Collecting people under a common tab is a central human right. It ensures that even if all people are different, we as employees have basic needs, such as a safe and secure workplace, decent pay and casual and balanced rules of play in the event of conflict. The left is concerned about a development of a lower level of organisation, and it is particularly alarming that many of those who are very weak in the labour market are on their own. As a result, successful inclusion skills may be one of the most important priorities, with more people entering the labour market increasing the recruitment base of professional organisations. The left is also concerned about those who are completely outside the labour market. These groups need multiple counting. The main rule in Norwegian working life is and should be fixed additions. For some groups we still see that it is unfortunately difficult to get fixed additions. It can be about people with disabilities, where employers may fear that it will be a requirement to make arrangements, people with holes in the CV, where employers may be insecure and refuse to settle, or an immigrant, where culture and language may be a demanding barrier. Several solutions are required here. A solution that has been tried in Oslo is anonymous job requests. On the left, Jeleia was given a pass to try this out in the country as well — and we must of course dare to try out other measures. For many, a temporary addition may be the only way to get a foot in the world of work, a chance to see what you can do and what you can do. Unfortunately, the option is not as simple as anyone to listen to as: fixed addition. The option might also be considered a workless option. The part of the temporary addition is reasonably stable. When one hears the political debate, a few impressions may be that the changes adopted in 2015 have led to a sharp increase in the number of temporary increases. That is not the case. The number is stable, and it was about 8.1 pst. of all those added in the last quarter of last year. If, however, it should appear – when we are more familiar with this rule change – that the number of temporary additives is increasing significantly and that a person experiences abuse, we must of course review the rule. I think most people see and agree that the businesses need some flexibility. Many operate in a tough international market with rapid transitions where owners often take very high risks. Retirement can in this way be a decisive addition to fixed additions. In particular, we know that it may be important in industries with large vibrations, seasonal variation. For the Left, of course, it is a fundamental principle that workers who are rented out should be treated in the same way as those who are normally employed by the lessee when doing the same work and preventing abuse. Finally, I would like to thank the proposers for all the initiatives in these cases. It has been a textual scope in matters that have been quite challenging to be thrown into the committee as a new representative, but it has nevertheless been incredibly instructive and rewarding to experience a real will of all parties to discuss the realities. It is also very easy to divide both concerns and good intentions into different proposals. We have a cross-political agreement that we want a safe, inclusive working life. Then, of course, we must respect the fact that there are several ways to achieve this and that we can take a different view of what is most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2431	The volume of rentals in the construction industry and industry has increased significantly since the millennium. In particular, after the EEA enlargement in 2004, the share of contracted labour from Eastern Europe has increased sharply in many sectors. This has given employers greater flexibility to meet peaks and bottoms of production. It has lowered employers' costs, where they can again rely more on the output of hired labour when needed than on permanent employment. At the same time, developments have highlighted many and significant disadvantages, both through the consultation organised by the Committee and through press releases in recent months. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the social adverse effects of today's level of hired labour require vigorous countermeasures by the authorities. Such an action could have been a ban on rentals, for which the Labour Environment Act opens up, and for which the Workers' Party, SV and Red have made various proposals. However, the Christian People's Party believes that these proposals will have a negative impact on value creation. They will make it very difficult for businesses to meet peaks and bottoms in production. For competitive and cyclical industries, such as the shipbuilding and fishing industries, the result would probably have been the deflagration of production and job losses. Changes in the Working Environment Act have a major impact on Norwegian business. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is important to get a government-prepared case, rather than giving support to representatives' proposals that have not been investigated in the same way, with the opportunity for interested parties to comment. That is the main reason why we are today choosing to vote against all the proposals that the minority has promoted in the Inner East. 131 S and Innst. 132 L, with the exception of proposal No 6 in Inn. 131 S, which we will support. The government has announced a bill that addresses the issues raised by the Storting today. We in the Christian People's Party will make it clear that in proposal No. 6 is a clear order for the government when the proposition is to be made. Thus, through a thorough investigation in the ministry, where the various issues and proposals for decisions are put to the consultation, we ensure that these complex issues, which directly address how large parts of Norwegian business organise the need for labour against volume of work, are sufficiently addressed before the Stortinget takes binding legislative decisions. The main issue of the Christian People's Party on the use of rentals and temporary employment is as follows: First of all, we want a clearer definition of fixed-term employment. Here we are pleased to note that the Council of State has also sent out clear signals that this is becoming a central point in the announced proposition. Permanent employment should mean that employment is ongoing and unlimited and that the rules of the Act on termination of employment apply. It should also be emphasised that fixed-term employment without pay between assignments does not meet the statutory requirements for permanent employment. Secondly, we want the government to consider proposing an obligation for the employer to provide predictability of work and income through a work plan. We believe that the Labour Environment Act must clarify that the employer has an obligation to pay when the employee is required to remain at his disposal. When the government promotes the billing of the Storting, we also expect an assessment to be made as to whether conditions should be laid down for the average working time of its employees in the preparation of the working plan. This is one of the issues that we will carefully assess when the Storting is going to deal with this issue, in the light of different ways of organising work within different industries. Thirdly, we believe that the government has to consider proposing that access to extended use of fixed-term rentals, as defined in the Working Environment Act § 14-12, second paragraph, be limited, so that only enterprises bound by a country-wide collective agreement with a trade union with a right of cancellation can enter into written agreements on fixed-term rentals. Fourthly, we ask the government to consider proposing that the Labour Inspectorate should be allowed to supervise the rental and sanctioning of illegal rentals. Of course, by the term ‘renting’ we mean both hiring out and hiring out labour. On this basis, in the Christian People's Party, we will vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal asking the government to consider introducing the four amendments I have mentioned. At the same time, with our support for the Workers' Party's proposal, we send a clear signal to the government about what will become the Christian People's Party's approach when the matter comes from the government to the Stortinget. Finally, I would like to give a brief reason why the Christian People's Party does not support minority motion No. 1 – proposals for I and II – from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, in Innst. 132 L. Like the majority of the Committee, we believe it is too early to consider making cuts in the overall access to temporary employment, in view of the fact that more research projects are still ongoing and are being completed for the autumn, which could help to shed light on more aspects of issues related to temporary employment that may be of importance. When the results of the investigations are available, the Christian People's Party will conclude on whether or not to continue general access to temporary employment, as formulated in Section 14-9 of the First paragraph of point (f) of the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2456	More than 2,000 people were gathered outside The Storting in a political strike on November 15 to give everyone in here a clear message: The situation in the construction industry is out of control, cleared up! Unfortunately, there are too few in here who listen to the construction workers, even though a whole industry is deeply concerned. Trade unions, trade unions, professionals and teachers are now calling for a warning. That's why it was probably a strike – March 6th – outside of Stortinget. For the students who were on the strike, it's about their future. Without regular employment, apprenticeships disappear. How do you get a mortgage and establish yourself when you get a job only two weeks at a time? The message from the front of the strike on March 6th was crystal clear. They asked the Stortinget to support a ban on the hiring of labour in construction sites in the Oslofjorden counties, for here is the problem of hiring, falling organizational degrees and missing apprenticeships. More than half of the new jobs in Norwegian construction sites are announced by the employment agencies. In Oslo, the number is 79 pst. A report from the Joint League last year showed that 40 pst. of those who work in surveyed construction sites in Oslo and Akershus, are hired. Of the rentals, 85 were pst. illegal. Those who work in the construction sites experience that the industry is taken over by agency staffing agencies offering job-seeker contracts, and they warn against the culture of fear. In a recruitment agency, a job protection agency is in effect zero, and without job protection the threshold is to tell whether critical matters or to join a trade union is sky high. This is what the Stortinget must clear if we want to maintain a Norwegian model in the workplace, not least after all the reports we have received that quality and vocational training in one of Norway's largest industries are at risk. The agencies are growing strongly, but they don't have apprentices. Professional training and transfer of practical knowledge require a community of practice over time. Enterprises based on hiring people from job to job can never offer that community of practice. Business owners are lured into employing cheap, unskilled labour instead of investing in what has been gold in Norwegian working life, namely high skills and high productivity. The first thing Red did when we entered the Stortinget was to raise the claim from the building workers. In November, we promoted proposals to close the manning agencies out of the construction sites around Oslofjorden. We are pleased that we are now receiving support from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party for our proposal, and are pleased that we have succeeded in establishing a broader understanding that the construction industry has come out of control and that it needs to be cleaned up. But then we need a Christian People's Party to have a majority. That's why I'm asking the Christian People's Party to think again. It's no shame to turn around. We have to do our job so that the construction industry is once again becoming an industry that young people will invest in, an industry with permanent employment and good pay and working conditions, that we are using new technology, and that one has effective skilled workers who contribute to the green shift. Unfortunately, it is not like that today. Productivity falls, and much more than before is on the minimum wage. Our will and the will of other parties to clean up the construction industry is obviously scaring the NHO, who are trying to clean up the rental companies and the so-called serious recruitment agencies. But to whom does the NHO actually aim? The agencies organised at NHO also pressure employees out of permanent jobs and into short contracts that last only a few days at a time. The message to the government is ready. When the trade union movement and the opposition give it such a clear message, it must deliver quickly. The two strikes in the construction industry show that the will to fight is great. They won't give up until it's cleaned up in this business. We don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2473	It is important to take seriously the developments in the use of rentals that we see in some industries in parts of the country. Nor should there be any doubt that the government also believes that permanent and direct employment should be the general rule in Norwegian working life. The government wants to find solutions in this area that can improve conditions, especially in the construction sector, where this has been particularly extensive. This is also the background to the fact that we have had three out-of-hearing proposals aimed at addressing issues raised in the representatives' proposals under consideration today. The government, as Stortinget is also known, will come to Stortinget with a proposition in a very short time. In the hearing, we propose inter alia: clarify the content of permanent employment in the law. Action against high rates of let-in in some industries was also a key issue. While the consultation shows that many people agree that measures against high rental rates may be needed in some industries, there are different views on how best to organise the measures, and that is precisely what the debate on rentals has also been strongly influenced, namely different views on what will be the right measures. Although I share the concerns of the proposers about the development of certain industries, I believe that a ban on hiring out agencies is too restrictive. Activities need to avoid stoppages and to cover the absence of workers in the enterprise. Also in construction there may be legitimate needs to hire additional labour during periods. Excessive regulation may also affect permanent employees by failing to take on the tasks they wish. I am therefore concerned that we need to have measures to address the problems we see in construction, while the companies have some flexibility, i.e. that we are able to solve what is a problem, without putting unnecessary obstacles to the flexibility that is necessary and legitimate. Several report that there is a lot of illegal rental and that rules are not respected in some industries. I agree with the need to look at how we can improve the enforcement of the rules in the future. The government will take a closer look at these issues, which is also a subject of a request decision by the Stortinget of June last year. These include: where appropriate, assessing whether the Labour Inspectorate should have a greater role in the enforcement of the rules on hiring. This raises various issues, such as: because it can break enforcement traditions developed over many decades. I still want to go into this in more detail and consider the possibilities here. Proposals have also been made for the abolition of general access to temporary employment from 2015. Overall, the use of temporary employment is fairly stable and lower than the average for OECD countries and EU countries. On behalf of the Ministry, the Institute for Social Research has assessed the impact of access to temporary employment on the general basis of the employment of vulnerable groups. Researchers indicate that the change in the law came at the same time as a recession, and that it is therefore not possible to fully distinguish the effect of the change in the law from the effect of the recession in the period examined. Only developments in 2016 have been assessed, and I think it is too early to conclude on the effect already now. The Government considers that there is no reason to suspend the general access to temporary employment, as proposed. The government has announced a proposal to the Stortinget that has the hearing note that was sent out before the summer of last year, as a starting point. The plan is that it will come to the Storting in a few weeks, so that the Storing will be dealt with in the current session, i.e. before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2490	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2495	Before the elections, the state council promised Hauglie that she would go to battle against zero-hour contracts. She promised in the VG to end this. Now it's time, and now it's saying the same government council: ‘What we wanted to do is to limit part of the undesirable form of rental and also reduce the scope of the form of contract of fixed employment without pay between orders.’ In other words, we have moved from the fact that one before the election markets its policy by saying that one should end something, and then after the option tells us what the phase actually was, that one wants to limit and reduce the scope. In other words, one has also reduced the scope of its own ambitions, and my question is, Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2505	I have not taken down my ambitions in any way. If the representative Tajik has read the consultation note that we sent out, that's exactly what we're starting from when we're making a proposition. So there's been some feedback on the suggestions we had in the hearing. We proposed, among other things: quota restrictions as a means of operating the prohibition request. It turned out that none of the parties wanted to. We still have an ambition that we will get rid of what many people think and experience that, and which is, unfortunate in Norwegian working life, and I believe that we will also get rid of the proposals we are going to make to Stortinget in a short time. So there's no change in the level of ambition in what I said before the election, and in what we have as intention to solve in the proposition that we present to the Storting in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2516	If the ambitions are the same, then the ambitions must be low at first. It must mean that when one went out hard on the track and said that one should end the zero-hour contracts, and recognize them as slave contracts, it is certainly revealed as an election campaign blow from the Council of State. I record that in her article she also referred to the report of the Institute for Social Research, which takes into account how the scheme of a general right to temporary additions has turned off. Otherwise, in the report, they have corrected for the recession, and they say clearly that people who would have been fixed would now be temporarily added instead. In other words, a document has shown that this system is accelerating fixed additions. The question is, why does the Council of State continue to insist that one is required to have a general right to temporary additions - when there is evidence that it is accelerating fixed additions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2525	The representative Tajik says we've reduced the level of ambition. We don't have it. I also notice that several of the proposals that have been put forward in the vote are identical to what is in the consultation note that the government sent out last June. In that case, we are at the same level of ambition, both parties. To the report that was presented a short time ago: that report accounts for one year of the time when temporary employment has existed. It is too early to establish the impact of temporary employment after one year, especially when the year examined is a year of severe recession. Other reports show that temporary employment is used to a very small extent. The municipal sector referred to it as looting and stealing, that it was difficult to use the home, and we also see that temporary employment remains surprisingly stable over time. There is a very small proportion that is temporarily employed, and it is even, if I remember correctly, lower now than when we entered the government in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2535	Governments say her intentions have been identical to what is in the setting. I don't know, I just have to say. The Labour Party has initially expressed a wish for a temporary ban on the temporary admission of workers. We have managed to collect a number of them, in layers with the left side and the Christian People's Party, is a clear tightening and clear expectation of defining fixed additions, etc. It's some steps in the right direction, but it's not the same thing as the Council of State has expressed. But I almost have to take her on the word when she says that she wants to do it, and what's in the setting is the same thing. Then I have to ask: can the Council of State guarantee that it will execute correctly what is now in the option from the plural, and the intention that is set out in the comments from the plural, with clear definitions of fixed additions – verbatim, according to the premises that we put there?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2542	No, I cannot guarantee that it is correct in word, nor did I say that the hearing note is identical to the entire proposal for a representative, I said that several of the proposals contained in the proposal for a representative are similar to what was sent out at the hearing, among others. the desire to clarify fixed-term employment in the law and to ensure predictability of pay and work. It's completely identical. So we're going to make a proposition in not long, as the Storting is invited to treat. I feel that there's a great deal of consensus about what you want to solve, but there's a lot of disagreement about how to solve it. I believe that a ban on rental is the wrong way to go. I also notice that the majority has changed their position, and I am pleased about that. A ban will be too rigid, and it will not serve the labour market, nor will the workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2549	I note that the Council of State says that there is agreement on the problem you want to solve. I sincerely hope so. But now let's take a little test: the employee part thinks that the size of the tenant has been a big problem. Will the Council of State support this wording?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2554	As I said in my post, we see that the amount of rent is large in some industries in parts of the country. The amount of rental is relatively stable over time. There have been very small variations over the last ten years in the use of rentals, but we see that it is extensive in parts of our business and employment, in parts of the country, and that is especially in construction and construction this has been increasing. But that doesn't mean there's a ban that's the answer. I believe that a ban is the wrong way to go, I think it's too rigid, and I'm glad that a majority in this room doesn't want to go that way either.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2559	The President will remind the representative of Tajik that the word 'bløff' has previously been mentioned as an inappropriate parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2564	At the latest by the Council of State, it was said that someone in the Grand Duchy is in favour of a ban on manning companies. As the rapporteur-in-Office, I have not seen anyone come up with a proposal to ban crew companies, and I hope it will stop talking about it. The Nav management had a meeting with the Labour and Social Committee at Stortinget on 6 March. A question from me led to a letter from Nav dated 8 March to the Committee on Day Allowances for Staff in the Manning Industry when they are not in charge. That's what it says. «An employee who has a current contract of employment in which periods of unpaid work have been entered into and who is completely free to take up employment for another employer during the period of no-work shall be regarded as a genuine job seeker with the right to normal daily allowance, if the other conditions of social security are fulfilled.» My question is: can a person employed by the NHO Service and Handels standard contract, permanent employment without pay between assignments, be entitled to a daily allowance for the days when the crew company does not offer the work in question?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2576	It is difficult to comment on meetings I have not attended, and letters I have not seen. But some of what we want to reduce the use of through the proposals we're going to make to the Storting is exactly the contract form we see. It has widened and created considerable uncertainty for workers. One of the things we're going to propose is to clarify "fixed employment" in the law. There have been several judges who have given an indication of where the law should be. We're going to clarify the law to increase predictability of pay and jobs, so you're going to know more about what you're dealing with as an employee. As the representative refers to this example, I think it will be reduced, and perhaps also lapse, with the changes in the laws that we want to promote for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2583	We in the Christian People's Party are satisfied that it has been announced a proposition on the Working Environment Act. It shows that the government sees that there's a challenge picture here. I have read the consultation note that was sent out before the summer, a good document and a good starting point for a proposition, although the consultation period was short and added to the public holiday – we noticed that. My question to the Council of State is how to imagine the further work on the proposition. In proposal No 6, which today will have a majority, there is a clear order from Stortinget on matters you want to investigate and evaluate in order to make proposals. Will the Council of State ensure that the order is incorporated into the proposition and that sufficient resources are used to investigate the matters that the Storting has ordered?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2592	Let me first say something about the hearing. That was a three-month consultation period, which is quite normal. And that's right, as the representative Reiten says, this is something the government has been busy about. We have had a lot of dialogue and discussion with the parties, over several years, just trying to come up with solutions that both sides, both employers and employees, think would make sense to solve the challenge. So to the suggestions that are in the vote. Yes, we'll incorporate all that we can into the proposition that comes. At the same time, Stortinget has said that you want to deal with this matter before the summer. That means we have to deliver the proposition before Easter. Of course, we have to do what we can to incorporate all of the decisions that are made here, in a good way, into the proposition that the Storting is presented to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2599	Right is a law-and-order party. But is it about working life? We know that in the event of the staffing agencies falling in, the unions are swept out. That shows the number of numbers. Four out of ten people working on the construction sites in Oslo and Akershus are hired, according to the Joint Association. The level of organisation is on its way down to 10 pst. in the same construction sites. This means that the chief law enforcement officers in the workplace, namely trade unions that have clubs present in the construction sites, will be deleted when the employment agencies are released, as right-hand access opens up. Does the Council of State see that trade unions are essential for combating labour-life crime? Does the government also see that the agencies are a threat to the organization of many?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2606	I agree that the organisation of working life in general, both on the labour market and on the employers' side, is important, even decisive, when it comes to combating the crime of working life. I do not agree that the manning industry poses the threat that the representative of the Moxnes believes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2612	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2619	It is a common superstructure of all the five proposals we are considering in this debate. They're about what kind of work we're going to have. Should we call about the Norwegian model, with mutual respect for the rules of the labour market and a law that protects workers from arbitrariness and unfair employment? Or are we going to let hiring and unprofessional employers advise on the basis and have temporary employment postponed the regular jobs? The response from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left is consistent, it shall have ‘Do not Know’ times five, whether it is a restriction on rental or temporary employment. The three government parties clearly show that they are neither parties for ordinary workers nor for the Norwegian model of working life. That is regrettable, but not surprising. We see here one of the most obvious lines of Norwegian policy. One thing is the passivity of the government in terms of renting, another thing is conscious choices they themselves have made. The Workers' Party proposes to repeal the familial decision of the previous period to make temporary employment the norm in Norwegian working life. For the first time in Norwegian history, the Working Environment Act was changed to the disadvantage of workers. The majority of the Committee, the Right, the Party of Advances and the Left, refuses to turn back — even though the ISF recently demonstrated that the release of temporary employment has not led to more permanent jobs, as claimed by the civil society. Out of respect for the President, I struck out the word 'bluff'. On the contrary, there has been an increase in the proportion of temporary and short-term jobs. The increase takes place in low-wage workers and in industries with a high proportion of temporary workers from before. Exposured groups, such as young people, immigrants and people with disabilities, have received a higher share of temporary jobs, but have not increased their total employment. Both vulnerable groups and the majority have lower job security after the reform. "Too early," said the Council of State, but we knew it when the law was changed. The OECD had shown that experience from other countries was poor. More temporaryity means no more jobs, just more temporaryity. And we know what temporaryity means -- zero mortgages, increased vulnerability to unprofessional employers, lower organizational level, uncertainty for people in the start-up phase. It is also not good for equality, and pregnant women are particularly vulnerable. We also know that temporary employees are more vulnerable to occupational injury, and they receive less professional updates. The last thing is stupid when we know that Norway's main competitive advantage is competent workers. Prime Minister Erna Solberg talks about the need for conversion. How much conversion do we actually get with temporary employees? It's a shame the government parties don't have the ability to see that context. We know that they don't care about employees' rights. That they are so blind to the needs of business is perhaps more surprising for some, but not really for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2630	There is no doubt that in some jobs in vulnerable industries the relationship we do not want to be familiar with in Norwegian working life. It underlines the importance of tripartite cooperation, where the parties are mutually served with joint effort. Irregularities shall be combated and unfair conditions cleaned up. But there is a difference between combating crime and criminalising legitimate activities. I would like to remind you that under the red-green government, the number of hours sold to the construction industry increased from around 700,000 hours to over 3 million hours in 2014. According to the SSB, the whole employment growth occurred after 2008 non-resident labour force. This meant that LO's then vice-president Stein Reegård pushed out Norwegian labour force. So if someone feels like they're failing, I understand that. So it happened at the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV's guard. Even with a majority government they lacked the power to do something about this, but I believe that a ban is neither good enough nor targeted enough. Just because we have heard, this government has stepped up the fight against the crime of working life and unprofessional relationships in the last four years. Because we hear, there have been seven centres set up to combat work crime, and already in 2016 3,200 businesses were controlled and 254 criminal networks revealed. Because we hear, stricter penalties and higher fines have been imposed on those who break laws and regulations, and when the Solberg government imposed demands on apprentices on all construction projects and services that public pay for, cheered LO – because we hear. The rhetoric of the Workers' Party is out of proportion to the policy. In their original proposal, they proposed the monitoring of rentals in the construction industry, a monitoring department is already in the process and the final report is presented this spring. The proposal to define permanent employment was already sent to the hearing on 1 July last year. Open doors are kicked up here. In addition, they wanted to seek a temporary ban, which they did: act effectively. Right-wing desire to help vulnerable people in a difficult situation through, for example: the recovery of wages and salaries is part of free legal aid, but it is not supported by those who support the proposals we are dealing with today. The work of a serious and tidy working life must be continuously followed up. We see that the crime of working life develops as a balloon that is not completely inflated – when you push in one place, it sticks out somewhere else. This is a continuous work, and it is followed up. That is why I look forward to the government's new proposal, which everyone knew came this spring, even before these representative proposals were submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2646	As a co-rapporteur for the Workers' Party's proposal for temporary posts, I would like to say that this is an important and correct proposal. In practice, it means the difference between whether one has the opportunity to plan the future or whether one is walking for a long time without this possibility. Removing the extended possibility of temporary posts should be adopted later today. In my last working day as an employee of the LO, I met more and more members who were rehabilitated in temporary positions in companies. Increased temporaryity does not lead to more fixed positions, but to increased temporaryity becoming the reality out there. Now, when I meet people in Rogaland who I know have been unemployed, and ask them what the situation is, fortunately, they answer more and more that, yes, they've got a job, but then the additional information comes that it's just a temporary job. A lot of people walk around without knowing if they have a job or not next month. Many of these are young people, and they are often temporarily recruited in the same position as they had. Others have just trained or have relatively short seagoing times, but they can only forget to get a home. They do not receive loans from the bank and therefore do not have the opportunity to finance a dwelling. We who talk to people in this situation know that this practice is taking place, not just in the construction industry, but in more and more other sectors, such as construction. the oil and gas industry and the supplier industry. And they're ordinary workers; they don't necessarily have any special needs. This is a dangerous development, because a loose link to businesses provides less productivity and less innovation. The worst part is that it also gives an impact on the HMS work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2656	When this temporaryity is combined with rental, we have a combination that further undermines the Norwegian working life as we know it. Our productive working life depends on people feeling secure that they have a wage to live off, and the safety of an employer thinking about the welfare of employees. This is not promoted in the thinking the government uses in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2659	To correct what we are now discussing, concrete changes are needed in the Working Environment Act. That is why the Centre Party has worked so thoroughly with it that we have presented concrete legislative amendments – together with the Socialist Left Party. We want to define regular employment into sections 14-9 of the law. [[1]] Our proposal is identical to what the government is proposing, and I ask the Council of State to clarify that, if that definition comes in, it will be illegal only by continuing to have the contract form ‘fixed employment without pay between assignments’, which the NHO Service and Trade use today. Furthermore, the Central Party and the Socialist Left propose to abolish the general access to temporary employment by deleting § 14-9(f). [[1]] One continues to have access to temporary employment under points (a) and (b) of the Act. Letter (f) is not used and is justified by the fact that there are quarantine provisions attached to it. Furthermore, we propose that the general access to the use of rentals from crew companies under § 14-12 be limited to vicariates, cf. [[1]] § 14-9 (b). It was vicariates that were at the heart of the crew companies when they started. [[1]] Extended access to the use of rentals from temporary employment enterprises under Sections 14 to 12 is restricted to contracts with a trade union that has the right to cancel. [[2]] In such cases, you must have a trade union with the right to cancel, but you can use crew companies according to § 14-12 without such an agreement. [[1]] The form of employment ‘fixed employment without pay between jobs’ for temporary staff undertakings shall be illegal, as set out in: new § 14-12 [[7]] So we have had a concrete review of all the paragraphs relating to temporary and temporary employment. We have tightened up while maintaining flexibility, and I would like to stress this: flexibility for the employer is maintained, but there are neat conditions, so that we can get a regulation that makes it easier for the Labour Inspectorate to practice, and that distinguishes between what is lawful and illegal activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2674	This matter is about important questions for all of us. On the one hand, it is about how to guarantee the rights of employees and that full-time employment remains the general rule. On the other hand, it is about how Norwegian industries with large seasonal and activity fluctuations can be guaranteed competitiveness, in order to prevent their mission, value creation and employment from being taken over by foreign enterprises. For many communities with corner stone holdings or industries in my part of the country, the very survival of both businesses and society applies. As often as we do, we must not let the best become the enemy of good. We all know – also in this room – that there is not always a construction project going completely as it should, and then people have to put it in place. It's not the shipyards in Ulsteinvik, on Stord or in Fitjar that decide when the assignments come, but they have to have people in place when they get there. It is not the work plan of the fruit-growers in Ullenwang who decide when the morsels are ripe, but they must have people in place when they are. They must be picked, or they will rot on the trees. It's not the contractors at Voss who decide when the race goes, but they have to have people in place when it's over. It is not the farmers in Hardangerfjorden who determine the temperature of the fjord, and therefore when the salmon is ripe for slaughter, it is not the salmon bacteria either, but they must both have people in place when it is ready. It is not the breeders who decide whether there are suddenly conditions in the fjord, which means that there is a lot of lice or algae, and that the fish have to be moved or deluded, but they have to have people in place when it happens. Fish buyers and receivers at Myre in Finnmark cannot decide when the cod enters, but they must have people in place when it arrives. All these industries are essential for the creation, well-being, tax revenue and employment of district Norway and the West. None of these businesses can live without systems to take peaks, systems that do not mean that everyone can be permanently employed. I feel it's important to stress this as well, because it's talking here as if temporary employment or rent is the root of all evil, but in these cases it's the root of these businesses out in Norway that can actually work. Business in the West is like nature: there are high peaks and flat fjords in between, and even they can storm. The West is not bureaucracy and the same job and amount of work day after day. It's industry and biology, it's organic. Local communities depend on these activities to survive, and therefore also depend on the possibility of rental. At one time, these fluctuations could be resolved, for example: by using a reserve of labour of women, young people and part-time workers. Fortunately, this reserve is not available today. Youth is at school, we're a people, not just men, at work, and the part-time farmer has a regular job. In addition, it is no longer possible for a youth with a hammer to fill the need for a skilled worker. Also on that side it has to be organized. We are therefore dependent on, among other things, that companies which organise such competence can draw from many places and pool it where necessary. When I read that someone wants to require a collective agreement in order to be allowed to rent, I would like to mention that it is not necessarily that easy for farmers in Ullensvang or family businesses in Voss who operate in the field of entrepreneurship. It would be impossible for them to do this, even if their collective agreements were published and the conditions were clarified. I think that is wrong, and that is contrary to both the right to choose to organize and the right not to organise.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2693	The representative, Lerbreck, gives a very precise description of the hazards of a lot of nesting. It points out that it may lead to insecurity and a lack of good behaviour among those added. There's a description that we put behind us. I am very pleased that there is a collective left side, along with the Christian People's Party, which takes a necessary indication with a development in working life that, seen with our eyes and eyes to ordinary workers, is a quite dangerous development. I want to pick up some things that were said in the debate. The representative, Wiborg, said that this is a short assignment, and that one must have the opportunity to hire people in. I would like to remind you that it is not what this debate is about. He's about the fact that fixed additions are overdue, and there's a very serious example of a large amount of accommodation. There are examples of jobs where the agency is the most important employer — and this is just not possible. This is also not a new matter for this big business. It is a matter that has been discussed in several rounds, including in the previous period. We have pressed and pressed, but we have met much reluctance and reluctance from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. That is what has led to the fact that these matters are now being dealt with here. The representative, Mr Hagerup, says that the debate must be based on facts. I agree with that, but when it is said this way and one rejects the proposals for decisions from the majority on the Stortinget, it is difficult to understand it as anything but that the Right believes that the situation is not serious enough for one to put in place new measures. The representative Hagerup also says that the majority of employees are permanently attached. Yeah, we're in agreement. We haven't claimed anything else. The majority of workers in Norwegian working life have been continuously added, but we see that the extent of living-in is a growing problem. Right doesn't seem to be the same. It is fascinating that the representative Nordby Lunde himself today, i.e. five years after the Right and Advance Party took over the government offices, will point backwards, at the government of Stoltenberg II, instead of pointing forward what they themselves intend to do. She boasts of their efforts to combat the crime of working life, but the reality is, among other things, that there is a real downfall in the lines of the Labour Inspectorate. It is quite inconsequential to see this development when they describe a rather serious trend in the criminality of work in the state budget itself. Finally, there are several factors that make the world of work evolve in the wrong direction in several areas: The level of organisation has fallen. There is growth in sectors where the level of organisation is low and where there are more and more unprofessional actors. Fixed additions are superseded by shorter contracts. Here, a political initiative is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2722	There are strong forces that want the development that we see in Norwegian working life today. It is a development that gives workers insecurity and gives unfair competition to serious employers. The strongest force behind today's development is the NHO Service and Trade. It's important to hang the bell on the cat. NHO Service and Trade are strongly supported by NHO management. Many people are provoked and alarmed by what the NHO writes about permanent employment without a guaranteed wage, especially in their argument that they see more opportunities than restrictions, that this forces themselves into a globalised working life, and that this form of employment is desired by both employers and employees. This is in stark contrast to the Central Party's perception of reality. The centre party finds that these employees do not have real rights in the employment relationship; they do not have a real employer who follows up on development of skills and safety work. It is currently very distorting if employers can operate on a permanent basis without giving rise to real obligations for the employer. In the opinion of the Centre Party, fixed employment as a general rule and the investment of apprentices is essential in order to maintain the construction industry as a sustainable industry. This cannot be carried out by the personnel companies. Kripos and Økokrim warn against the scope for crime in Norwegian working life, especially in the construction sector. The strong statements I'm now making, it's not just the Center Party that has. It is also the meanings of Ståle Rød, who is Managing Director of Skanska Norway, with 3,800 employees in Norway. Skanska has 41,000 employees globally, and management understands the situation in Norway based on its international experience. It is very strong that the government does not follow up on what such managers stand for. If it is not followed, these managers are also pressured to leave their permanent employment strategy and move to the use of manning companies. Finally, the council did not answer my question. Can a person employed by the NHO Service and Handels standard contract of employment, permanent employment without pay between assignments, today be entitled to the day-to-day allowances that the manning company does not offer the job in question? I ask for a clarification from the Council of State: Is it legal today to pay the daily allowance for such standard contracts from the NHO Service and Trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2737	We are all aware that it is important to fight against labour crime and unprofessional actors in the labour market. For this reason, I am surprised that the Red Party, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre will also punish the serious actors, those who have arranged working relationships, those who participated in the inclusion campaign, and those who build the country. Both we and parts of the opposition have ambitious plans to expand the infrastructure in Norway. It applies to road, track and collective. Throughout the country, the government has undertaken small and large projects through its national transport plan. The rate of expansion on the Norwegian side would not be possible if we did not allow any of the labour force to be covered by the use of accommodation. The construction industry is clearly aware of this. It's a premise that you can use a penetrating tool to keep your rate of expansion up. An example of just such an enterprise that builds the country, which would be framed by the Red Party, the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV's ban, is Risa AS. Risa AS is one of the largest plant contractors in the country. They have been in the industry for 70 years and have always put emphasis on good working conditions for addition, openness and trust in practice. They have found good local solutions that include a well-functioning, trust-chosen system. The result of a ban on tenants will be a loss of flexibility and, in practice, a loss of competitiveness equivalent to many million dollars in medium and large-scale projects. One should almost think that the only tool in the toolbox was on the left. In that case, it's a shame, because there's a number of other tools to regulate themselves to an even more serious manning industry. Many of these tools have already been notified by the government in the hearing note sent out last summer. In addition, there are opportunities to impose public supply requirements and to introduce requirements on standards and certification schemes. All of these solutions can ensure viable activities, which ensure that they are added, clean work and fight against the crime of working life. It is difficult to read the suggestions as something other than a burning desire to bring the crew industry to life. There is a policy that Right cannot take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2750	It is not that there will be a complete crisis if we limit the manning industry today. Until 2000, a house was also built in Norway. We had a relatively good productivity boost and even good economic growth. One might say that in many ways the country was built by people who were firmly attached. The trade union movement has spent over a hundred years building the core wall of Norwegian employment. Safe settings, high wages and good conditions have not come of their own. It has come through negotiations and struggles, it has come through cooperation and the Nordic model. Now the ground wall cracks. Since the agency was released in 2000, it has become the largest employer in some sectors. Safe settings are replaced with uncertainty and temporary ones. Wages and salaries will be dumped - all for these companies to make money. In the construction industry, we see everything from gross and brutal exploitation of people to black work. SV has put forward proposals at Stortinget to limit the manning industry because 17 years of experience show that these agencies do not belong to a serious working life. The loosal workers' society is home to the scrapper of history. The employment agency has a bad impact on working life when it comes to vocational training. Traditionally, business has been united and jointly responsible for the creation of good trade union workers. The manning industry is contributing to an unfortunate distortion of competition in this field, where serious enterprises with their own craftsmen must take a greater share of the responsibility for vocational training. And the agency doesn't want to bother with professional planners, training planners and counsellors, simply because they don't qualify for the task. However, they are more than happy to be involved in the placement of skilled workers, and they are eager to spend a lot of money on it. It explains itself why the National Association of Construction largely agrees with us. There are a lot of serious companies that don't hire craftsmen because they see the many unfortunate consequences it has, but this in turn leads to the risk of getting out of business on pay and working conditions. SV pursues a policy on the part of employees. For us, it is important to strengthen the organisational basis, and in this case, we see that it is necessary to tighten the rules for hiring and hiring out labour. The manning industry does not contribute in any way to an increase in the level of organisation, nor the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2765	A well-regulated and decent working life is the bottom line of a good society, and if we are to ensure a sustainable welfare society, we depend on more people to work, and more people to work longer. Then we need a safe and flexible labour market with low unemployment and high employment. The main rule in Norwegian working life is regular employment. I am in favour of a strong labour-environment law where the general rule is to be fixed employment, where the working-time framework is to be continued, where we need flexibility in the workplace, and where violations of the labour-environment law are to be penalised harder and more stringent than today. But we know that some groups have challenges to get into work or to stay in work over time. This may apply to disabled people, and we see it in some immigrant groups and in young people without completed education. For these temporary jobs are often a doorway into working life, which I unfortunately see some people want to shut down. Temporary employment created a storm when we made changes, but in the labour market figures we see only ripples. About 8.1 pst. was the freshest figure I found, and that's about the same share as it was in 2012 and 2013, when the employment ministers were Hanne Bjurstrøm and Anniken Huitfeldt respectively. 8.1 pst. is also the same as the average for the period 2008-2015, so that developments have remained stable when temporary employment comes under both current and previous government. We see that the highest use of temporary employment is in the public sector. The experience is that 51 pst. of temporary staff are in permanent employment after 1 year, 28 pst. is still in a temporary job, and 2 pst. has become a self-employed person. The representative Langholm Hansen is not the only one who talks to unemployed people in the oil industry. I do, too, and they say that temporary employment is what helps them get back into working life. It shows that the debate on temporary employment is not just black and white. I think it's an important piece to get more people to work, combined with better cooperation between employers, Nav, the staffing industry, recruitment agencies and other actors. If there's something I'm very happy that we've done something about this period, it's the fight against work-life crime. We have set up seven new centres for crime at work, which is already producing very good results. There are twice as many checks and several concerted actions between labour inspectorates, police, tax authorities, Nav and other authorities, which only in 2015 amounted to 200 million. kr extra in the treasury, to a fraction of the cost of operating the centres. It is a good provision to bet on centres that are going to reveal such crime, and this work I hope to escalate further in the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2781	We all want to support under a serious and good working life. This is why the government, as many have pointed out in the debate, has implemented a number of measures and announced that there will be a proposal for consideration in the spring session. It is important to have legislation and regulations that support the serious actors, but which also hard hit the unprofessionals. I react when it is now proposed to introduce measures that not only affect an entire manning industry, but that can actually have a significant impact on Norwegian industry and business, measures that will affect small and medium-sized family-run enterprises across the country. For Norwegian labour, a single European labour market is part of a single European labour market and competition is global. Then we have to make sure that our business has framework conditions that reduce the risk of growth and make it easier to collect large contracts to Norway. The option is that Norwegian competences and jobs are moved out of the country, and nobody is well served. A ban on temporary employment and hiring through the agency will mean that fewer enterprises will be able to participate in large tenders. The risk aspect of manning may become too high rapidly. It will make it harder to pick up assignments at home. Nor is it the case that Norwegian managers permit and deputies with a light heart. Therefore, companies are just choosing to hire or offer temporary employment in order to avoid production stops or to carry out large contracts that are time-limited. The Temporary Agency Directive ensures that workers hired by agency staff must have at least as good pay and working conditions as if they were permanently employed in the temporary agency. This means that it is more profitable for the lessee to hire when there is a sufficient long-term commitment amount, and that the risk of using the lessee is reduced when the lessee has a more short-term time horizon to deal with. It allows businesses to bet on winning contracts that are larger than today’s staff will be able to handle — and that is precisely what is at the root of growth, and in the long term more permanent jobs. The alternative may well be that these tasks do not go to shipyards and industrial enterprises in Ulsteinvik, Eidskog or Raufoss, but rather disappear out of the country. Norway needs a strong, serious and competitive business. That is what will provide jobs across the country, and that is what forms the basis for a sustainable welfare society. We need serious measures that get rid of the unprofessional actors – not unprofessional policies that also affect serious working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2792	Let there be no doubt: permanent employment is and should be the general rule in Norwegian working life. Temporary employment and hiring of labour are complementary to permanent jobs. The share of temporary employment has not changed in particular since the introduction of the general access to temporary employment in 2015, even though the scare scenario was large at the time it was dealt with. Study Fafos from 2016 did not show any significant changes and an equivalent study shall be carried out this year. Reference has been made to the recent study by the Institute for Social Research, which shows that the changes in the Working Environment Act have not contributed to an overall increase in employment for groups with weak links to the labour market. This may be related to the fact that the changes in the Working Environment Act came about at the same time as the fall in oil prices, the increase in unemployment and the fall in economic activity. That's why it's not that easy to distinguish what's due to what. In fact, the changes in the Work Environment Act have helped to ensure that employment has not fallen even further. I am aware that there are major challenges in the construction industry, both at the level of renting, labour, working conditions and, in particular, the crime of working life. That is why I am pleased that we have a government that has been actively involved in regulating the areas of employment where there have been and are major challenges. Fortunately, even if we hear about horror examples, most of the personnel involved are serious. They carry out important jobs for our country, follow the provisions of the Labour Environment Act and contribute to increased employment and growth. In addition, the manning industry is often a stepping stone into the workplace for those who are striving to get to work. Fafo estimates that approx. 1.5-2 pst. of all annual works have been hired, and every year about 80000 persons employed in temporary employment. About 40 pst. by the temporary staff in the manning industry comes from unemployment and almost 20 pst. from the school bench. On average, they work in the industry about four months, mainly because they get a job elsewhere. Many of those recruited are people who struggle to get into the labour market. They're young, there's people with no formal competence, there's people with holes in the CV, there's seniors in the workplace, there's people with disabilities, there's people with a minority background, and there's immigrants. And these are people where the option has often been and is leave with the support of Nav. The crew industry is an important player in Norwegian working life. They contribute the extra capacity needed by many companies when they are given a large job and have to work quickly. At the same time, we must be on guard. Permanent employment is and shall be the rule of Norwegian working life. It is good that the government takes seriously the development of rentals in some industries, and I refer to the Council of State's answer on the matter of rentals that come to the Storting before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2805	Some of the most exciting, educational and interesting assignments or opportunities I get as a magnificent representative are traveling around the country and visiting the people and not least the business community. It is important for us politicians to listen to business, and it is important to make sure that small and large businesses around the country get good framework conditions, so that we can help create both jobs and secure jobs for the most people. In this context, it is important to bear in mind that all ways into working life are a good thing. Consequently, I would like to point out the importance of temporary employment. Of all the companies I've visited, and it's beginning to be quite a lot, I haven't met on one single company that has been negative to the possibility Right Party-Left Government, with the support of the Christian People's Party, has given them an increased use of temporary employment. And all the companies I've been talking to actually have very good experience of those starting in a part-time job or a temporary job, eventually getting a regular job. The option if they do not get a temporary opportunity and a leg inside is not a regular job, there is usually no job at all. All serious employers are to be lifted up and down through good framework conditions and opportunities to secure existing jobs and to be able to create more new ones. It requires predictability and requires flexibility to manage operational variations. It will ensure profitability, and it will, in turn, secure and secure jobs. It offers good opportunities for employers to contribute to the inclusion of many of those currently outside. These are moments that the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and especially Red seem to have left out completely in their assessment in their proposals. The recent debate in the media and the proposals we are discussing today give the impression that almost every employer is cynical and criminal, especially in the manning industry, and that all jobseekers can and will get a regular job from day one. In addition, the impression is that the principle of permanent employment is at stake, by opening up a modest access to rental and temporary employment. But this is not true. None of the claims are correct. Of course, we must fight against the crime of working life, we all agree on that. Useric actors and labour-life crime undermine Norwegian working life and Norwegian workplaces. Work life must and must be safe, flexible and family-friendly for all workers. This is precisely why the fight against crime at work has escalated in recent years. Seven new centres have been set up to combat crime at work, which has already produced good results. In 2016, 3,200 businesses were controlled, twice as many as in the previous year, and 254 criminal networks were revealed. And more controls are coming. It's going to be a further tightening. Service centres are also established for foreign workers to ensure that they receive good information about their rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2824	The centre party is not of the opinion that any employer is cynical. On the contrary, we have many employers in Norway who are strongly attached to tripartite cooperation between employers, trade unions and the state. What is the problem today, however, is that the legislative authority, led by the government, does not want to clarify the legislation so that we can make things healthier in the labour market. I referred to the head of Skanska. He's not alone. He now feels that he is in a situation where he is pressured to go in a way to organize his business which he does not want. That's a rather special setting we're dealing with today. It is an attitude in which the Committee does not even agree on the initial comments. There have been problems from the first sentence in getting a community in the setting. Government parties do not want to underline the need for permanent employment in Norwegian working life, i.e. to get more of it. They do not want to stress that we should have Norwegian pay and working conditions for those working in Norway. They do not want to emphasise that pay and working conditions must be such that full-time employees are able to live normally with the level of pay and costs that we have in Norway. Government parties do not want to underline the clear interaction between a well-organised working life and a safe family life. Many people take it for granted that we can have a safe family life — a family life where you have security of income and security when you are going to work, and when you are going to be free, so that you can take care of the family and the community when you are not in a work situation. But we haven't reached any agreement on these things, and it's very strong to regret. Then it is produced that we do not understand employers' need for flexibility from the opposition. I recommend that you read the setting. So we're going to write, for example: on page 7 of the statement that we are ‘ready to see that reality is so demanding that it is quite common for businesses to come up with situations where manning needs to be changed quickly’. And we're proposing changes to the laws that guarantee it. I ask that someone discuss the text of the law and how we have maintained security and justice throughout the entire setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2833	It is an extremely important matter that is being debated today. It is about how to organise working life, that we should have a working life that facilitates people's having and feeling security for their work, that we should ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions, that we should have permanent employment as a general rule, and that we should have a working life that provides the basis for a safe family life. It should be values that we could stand together about. Unfortunately, it is not even a majority in the Committee who are willing to support such wording. It is the minority in the Committee that has just highlighted this, and it marks a clear distinction in Norwegian policy. I wish it was the opposite. On the part of the government parties, there is talk of the need for flexibility in working life. Of course, there should be flexibility, and we'll also focus on that from the Center Party. We also have proposals in our proposals that facilitate flexibility for employers. There is still a full opportunity to take into account seasonal variations — take into account that you can hire temporary workers when needed. Of course you need that flexibility, and we have a long tradition for temporary workers in Norway. We have designed our proposals in dialogue with trade unions, but also with representatives of the business community who are concerned with neat, decent and serious industrial relations and who are involved in our proposals. In my own home country, Akershus, for example, one sees how the manning industry has grown to become a large and dominant industry in itself. When the largest manning companies are larger than the largest contractors, there is a need to do something. When we have reports that show that it is 40 pst. rented out in the construction industry, nine out of ten of the hired persons are from employment agencies and 85 pst. of the rental is illegal, there is a need to seize. Our concrete proposals are to clearly define permanent employment, to remove the general access to temporary employment, to reduce the use of a manning company, to tighten up § 14-12 of the Working Environment Act, so that only trade unions with the right of cancellation can agree to it, to reintroduce collective legal remedies and to extend the possibility for the Labour Inspectorate to impose obligations. These are very specific proposals that need to be implemented now. There has been enough talk for a long time, now there is a need for action. Our proposals facilitate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2844	The representative, Lundtegen, has asked me two questions. One applies to terms and conditions for day-to-day pay for those who work in the agency. Now it is difficult for me to comment on the specific contract that is mentioned, but in general it is that as long as you fulfil the condition for entitlement to the daily allowance, i.e. The fact that you have worked in the last calendar year, that you are a true jobseeker, and that you are available in the labour market, you may also be entitled to a daily allowance if you work in the employment agency, if you have free and unpaid periods. Generally speaking, the code is like that. I also received questions from the representative Lundtigen about, if I understood him correctly, how our proposal to clarify fixed-term employment is to understand. It is that fixed-term employment without a guarantee salary could not be considered legal permanent employment with the proposal that we have had at the hearing and that we will also continue to work with. This clarification will address all employees, including staff in the manning industry. Several have also addressed the problem of apprentices and the choice of professional subjects. There is also a problem that we in the government have been concerned about all our years. We have been committed to strengthening the search for a profession and also to ensuring that there are more apprentices. We have had several concrete measures, both by increasing the apprenticeship grant by NOK 21 000 – previously it was only price adjusted – and by demanding apprentices in public acquisitions. We have developed our own strategy to increase the size of apprentices in the public sector, and now we finally and for the first time in a long time see that both the number and the proportion of apprentices have started to increase. The last number of applicants for vocational training also shows a long positive trend for the first time. Of course, we still have to work in order for more people to choose a professional course. We need good trade union workers in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2853	Based on the debates we had earlier today, I was not thought to doubt the intentions of the respective parties. But based on the debate we've had here today, it seems a little different. Similarly – I do not doubt the intentions of e.g. The Party of Workers or the Socialist Left Party, when they have chosen to post temporary posts. I'm absolutely sure they've had good reasons for that. I would like to comment on a few things that have been said in the debate. The Socialist Left Party's Solfrid Lerbreck kept a tirad that in the manning industry there is gross exploitation, it contributes to black work and that was not the way. I think we should think a little bit about how we talk about companies that relate to the rules you have. And then, of course, we're going to close out the few that are unprofessional. It was also said by the same representative that you do not have equal pay and working conditions when you are temporarily employed. That's wrong. Lise Christoffersen of the Workers' Party managed to say that the government has removed the rules on permanent employment, which is wrong. We've established that regular employment is the general rule. We have also announced that we want to clarify it even more. When you also hear a bit of the argument about the Workers' Party, you almost get the impression that they have listened a little bit well to the Trade Union, which at the hearing of this case stated that you have holes in the CV, you don't get a job. It is not a process of thought shared by the Progress Party. On the contrary, we believe that we should step up efforts to help them with holes in the CV, and then temporary employment can be one grip. I would also like to remind you that it was this government – the Advance Party, Right and Left – with the support of the Christian People's Party, which actually reduced the time needed for temporary employment before you have a claim to a permanent position. The working party and SV thought it was okay to be temporarily employed for 4 years. We cut – the main rule should be 3 years. I will end by saying what the head of XXL, Anders Kjellén, says about temporary employment: Through our job of including people who are out of work for various reasons, we depend on the legislation to stimulate us to continue to do the good inclusion work. Opening up temporary employment gives us this very possibility. If this scheme fails, all risks will lie with the employer. Then we will less dare to take the choices we make today. A large part of them do not come to interview because they have a past that they are honest about will make it harder to get back to work. You know that people who have a background of rushing or mental health are more in line than they do without.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2868	This is a matter that has engaged and aroused feelings. Neither of us wants a working life where people are abused and do not have security of income the next day. We are also all concerned with the recruitment of the industries, and that skilled workers should also be an important part of Norwegian working life in the future. That is why a job has been done to find a solution where you can clean up the parts of your working life that are characterized by unprofessional actors. One sees the challenge in the construction industry and is in constant dialogue to find actions that take place. But the right believes it is important that one does not criminalise an entire industry, which one has done to a large extent in this matter. Many employment agencies solve every year a completely necessary and legitimate need for the workforce of employers. At the same time, it gives jobs to thousands of jobseekers every year. The recruitment agencies play an important role, but in this debate they have become the big loser. I don't think the intention has been to hit these, but in reality one does just that. The representative Tajik comments on what different representatives have said today, and it may be an interesting exercise. She says that the level of rent has become a major problem, and she wonders whether the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs agrees. I agree if you add the term ‘in some industries’: the size of rentals has become a major problem in some industries. That is what is missing in this debate. One talks about the workers and gives in the same spirit rough examples as one owes to a total crew business. The representative Lerbreck says that these agencies do not belong in the workplace. I have been working on recruitment for many years, and I am not familiar with this debate. It's one-sided. I agree that there are major challenges in the construction industry, but one does not recognise in any way that crew companies can be an important door opener into the workplace. One does not talk about Randstad Care, who provides health professionals, Nortura, who need help to cut meat in the season or Manpower's dedicated employees, who burn to find the best match between the employee and the employer. The people who work in Manpower are also people like us, who probably want people to get out of work. We all agree on this. There's almost no joy that's greater than telling people that they've got a job. But I have to admit that there is an extra great joy when you can say to someone who has been outside the labour market and who has got a foot within, that they have got a steady job. We must remember that the labour market is diverse, and the government will pursue an active policy to combat the crime of working life with targeted measures, increased control and cooperation between authorities and the social partners. So we're going to do that now, and we're going to keep doing that. But we're not involved in criminalizing an entire industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2885	This debate is rife with much misinformation. It's probably not always of evil will, because it's very complicated to have an overview of it. For example, the Chairman of the Committee, Erlend Wiborg, said: in an article in the Class Struggle on 15 March this year that we are in favour of ‘prohibiting companies from temporarily hiring’. There is no one either in the proposal or in the setting to prohibit temporary employment. No one goes in to take away § 14-9 a–e. That's wrong. Wiborg goes on to say, ‘prohibit rental via agency staff’. [[...]] That's wrong. § 14-12 stands firm. The representative says that, alternatively, if one is not to be prohibited, ‘only where LO is to be determined’ shall be allowed. [[...]] That's wrong. It is not LO to decide, it is trade unions with the right to set up. It's trade unions attached to the YS, it's the Academics. There were errors with the error. The representative's talking about it being shot in the blind. It is not shot in the blind, it is shot in concrete terms – precision shooting with concrete legislative proposals. That's the true opposite of shooting in the blind. There's no shot shot we're doing here. The representative goes on to say, « closes the door for those you want to include». [[...]] That's not right. The representative Hagerup is talking about criminalizing an entire industry. No, that's not what we're talking about. The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde is talking about criminalising legal activity. No one has proposed criminalising legal activities. What we're proposing is to change the law so that it becomes clear what's legal, and what's not legal. There is talk of work crime as if not everyone were against work crime. Everything that's criminal is illegal and has to be punished. It is important that we get a higher level of precision in the debate. It is important that more people read the configuration. It is important that more people go in and look at the legal paragraphs, the basis for temporary employment and recruitment agencies. In the end, I noticed the opinions of the representative Reten from the Christian People's Party, whom I very much appreciated, in connection with proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party, where the representative stated that the Labour Inspectorate should now look at was both renting and renting in connection with the staff companies. There is an important clarification that the government must include in the further assessment when considering the consequences of proposal No. 6, which I hope gets a majority here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2898	This is an interesting debate with a good temperature – I might rather say high temperature. One would almost think that there are crazy people who are temporary, and that this is a huge problem. Fortunately, according to the Labour Force Survey, well over 80 pst. are in permanent employment. That's good, and that's right. We also know that the number of annual works carried out by temporary employment agencies is only 1.5-2 pst. on a national basis. The proportion of temporary staff is approx. 9 pst., and these are small numbers that are definitely not a big problem, as the opposition is trying to make it. Other countries, and not least the public sector, have significantly higher figures, and even more interesting is the fact that when the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV were in charge, the proportion of temporary employees was even higher than today. However, the government has started a series of projects to see whether, in the case of the modest liberalisation we have carried out in terms of temporaryity, we achieve some of what we want, namely to include several of those outside. All parties in this room are aware that the government is working on it. Similarly, the government has asked for a specific survey of the construction industry, which has identified itself as an industry which has used rental via the agency to a greater extent than other industries, and has received more criticism because of it. These reports have been notified during the year, and we should wait for them to take knowledge-based decisions and decisions that are taken correctly. Other important aspects of this debate, which have been so far omitted or largely under-communicated, are the possible consequences of the ban on temporary employment and renting through the Agency, and the nature of the consequences of requiring country-wide collective agreements. Many employers will lose important flexibility, and they will be exposed to greater risks. This is very unfortunate. This could have negative consequences in that employers will be more cautious about hiring candidates with holes in the CV, a broken past, or have health challenges that make them unable to work full-time. It could also mean that companies have to accept no assignments that they do not have the basic staff or the economy to carry. In the ultimate sense, this can lead to fewer fixed jobs and even worse – that businesses do not get the flexibility they need and incur large, new fixed costs that they do not have the back to bear. Then they go bankrupt, and that's probably not the intention of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2912	In particular, there are strong forces that want to develop unfair competition, which compete out of the serious Norwegian companies, and that the NHO is in fact behind it – the member organisation of the serious companies. Business owners comply with Norwegian laws and regulations, pay taxes and will compete on a level playing field, the representative Lundtigen believes that it is possible to represent an organisation that undermines the wishes of its members. It's possible we're going to hang the bell on the cat, but we can try to find the right cat. The rapporteur also says that errors are presented, that no one wants to prohibit anything. Let me just refer to the draft representatives: draft representative 58 S 'to prohibit the hiring-in of agency staff', draft representative 59 S 'on the temporary prohibition of hiring-in'. It is possible that I read this outrageously, but there is a wise ban. I want to say that as a 21-year-old, it was actually a temporary agency that gave me a foot in the workplace, and when I was offered permanent employment, I used that experience to get better pay and conditions elsewhere. According to the agency's website, today they have 200 employees, which last year was 20 000 shorter or longer jobs. There are 20,000 possibilities for those who either want a little bit of fill or want a bridge for a regular job. Some of these jobs might become fixed jobs if rentals were prohibited, but almost 20,000 job opportunities would actually disappear. A ban, or temporary one, will in addition mean 200 lay-offs or redundancies in only this one agency. So today's Norwegian left-hand side is a good working life policy. I am pleased that the representative Tajik confirmed and clarified that they are actually very united about this. Mr Lundtegen said it was impossible to get full support for their comments. It may not be so strange when the left side gathers around a note where they say that each employer is responsible for adapting the amount of work to the crew – not that the staff, including regular employment, should be adapted to the volume of work, to which we tried to change it. They were in no doubt about changing this, and that means zero ambitions about growth, either for the individual enterprise or for the nation of Norway. None of these can be credible about the industrial nation of Norway and about innovation and new jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2927	The representative Lundteg spoke about the level of precision. Then it basically keeps going in and reading the current proposals we are actually dealing with here today, and not least also hearing what several of the rapporteurs have said about this speaker, among other things. Mr Solfrid Lerbreck. But there's one thing I miss a little bit in several of these debates. It's a little sober. It is produced as if Norwegian working life is terrible. It is presented as if Norwegian employment is made up of cynical employers and workers who are generally exploited. This is not the situation in Norwegian working life. Most people do well at work, most employers are decent, they follow laws and regulations. Then it's important that we don't talk them down, but that we use the resources to facilitate so that the serious can grow on, and then we'll fix the shot and stop the few that are unprofessional. The debate also suggests that there is no one who wants to have other forms of association with the world of work than a traditional permanent position. The vast majority want it, but you know that approx. 40 pst. of the temporary staff initially do not want a permanent job. We also know, as I mentioned instead, that the majority of temporary employees are young people, and of them aged 15 to 24 almost half report that studies are their main activity. I think it is no problem if you have a temporary position. This is also about whether we should pull up the ladder after us. Are those of us who are lucky and have a job to pull up the ladder, or are you going to make better arrangements for those who are far away from work to get a foot within? The Progress Party wants to have a working life that has room for more people, as we believe that very many people who are currently out of work have a residual working capacity, but that they must have the opportunity to use it. We then know – research shows this – that temporary employment can be one of several instruments that help more people get a job. It also shows the experience: the majority of people in temporary jobs end up in a permanent position, and that must be the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2938	The debate on the use of recruitment agencies is a serious and important matter. Today we have heard a lot about the challenges in the construction industry. I want to make visible another side of something that is completely central in all parts of society and in all stages of life, and the keyword here is communication. With an increased proportion of foreigners, our society is in great need of interpretative services. Here are some eye-catching numbers that I want us to come with. The National Audit Office's investigation has shown that over 60 pst. by the interpreters used by the police and courts were not registered in the interpretative register with passed relevant education. In the health and social sectors and in the field of child protection, interpretation by inexperienced interpreters has been consistently drawn. There are interpreters who have neither good language skills nor formal, relevant education. In 2012, 91 p.m. by the interpretation of Oslo University Hospital, Aarhus and Sunnaas by persons without any interpretation training. One of the key reasons why this has become the case is the rules we have for the postponement of tenders, and an extensive and increasing use of interpreters' agencies. There are agency staff, as we've been talking about here for a long time today. Just as there is a screaming need for apprenticeships in the construction industry, so as a society, we also need an interpretation service where interpreters receive education, professional development and strengthening in professional terminology and professionalprofession. The agencies do this to a very small extent, because their employees are usually only there in the short term. Even in the case of Sami, which is an officially recognised language in Norway, there is an extensive use of related interpretation, i.e. the use of persons other than interpreters to do the job. I want to address this to show how many key areas recruitment agencies are a challenge that needs to be taken seriously. In the case that I took up, it says about life and health, it says about the best of children, legal certainty and preparedness. It may be a small professional group, but one where lack of quality assurance can have very serious outcomes. When it comes to finding the right cat to hang a bell on, we are discussing here whether to ban hiring from the agency – in a society where we are actually on the way to basing all interpretation in the public sector on such agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2951	I hope everyone, not least the NHO Service and Trade, noticed what the Council of State said here instead. What the Council of State said, was that with the government's definition of permanent employment, a definition that the Central Party has also incorporated in its proposal to define permanent employment, it would not be lawful to use the employment contract of the NHO Service and Trade for fixed employment without pay between assignments or fixed employment without guarantee. It's a very important clarification from the Council of State, and I'm very grateful that the Council of State said it so clearly. On the other hand, in the case of the Council's reply as to whether those who have these contracts could receive daily benefits in the periods they are not working, the answer was unclear. What is apparent from the letter from the Directorate-General for Labour and Welfare of Kjersti Monland of the Committee of 8 March is that such conditions are today, those who have the employment contract, which is very beneficial to the employer, will also be able to use it to obtain the daily allowance when not working. I hope that the Council of State will immediately clarify whether it is lawful, and will put an end to that practice immediately, because it must be fundamentally contrary to what is meant by the daily allowance compared to someone who has an employment contract in which it is called permanent employment. Otherwise, I just have to say that I have never said anything about criminalising legal activities, but I say that there are strong forces behind today's legitimate business, which leads to insecurity and unfairness in the labour market. There are people who don't want tightening up, and the name of that organisation is the NHO Service and Trade. They now need to stand up and show their social responsibility and side with the policies they have had, in order for them to have a place further. For there is no one who does not want crew companies in the case of vicariates, no one goes in to remove temporary employment in view of what Nortura or others need to do to stop work. The opposition facilitates a combination of safety and flexibility within a work environment law that is stricter and clearer, and where the Labour Inspectorate is given clearer powers to tighten up what is illegal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2960	This has been an interesting debate on an important topic. In my article, I spent most of my time clarifying what is the Christian People's Party's introductory values in the matter. What I didn't have time to say about – and that's what the representative Lundtägen had to say in a previous post – is how important predictability in terms of work and income is for basic security for Norwegian families. It's a crucial point for the Christian People's Party and one of our most important input values when we're dealing with these questions. Nor have we been told so much that we have a problem with young people actually clouding the industries that have a particularly high proportion of hired labour, and the industry itself has complained that it is difficult to acquire skilled skills. Then you really got rice for yourself when you, for example. has difficulty in getting young people to apply for construction in the East. Then there is one topic that has not been raised in the debate, and which I think should give cause for concern, both for the Biggest and for business, and that is that when the Labour Environment Act is amended, the impact on how business organises its workforce in terms of the amount of work is considerable. Then it becomes a wrong approach for us that representatives in the Storting should prepare the basis for this. The representative, Mr Lundtigen, has himself warned against the ban line, precisely because the demarcation issue is bigger than it might seem at first sight. I have had great pleasure in following the work of the representative Lundtigen as rapporteur of the case. It has ended up in a legislative proposal that is both thorough and good, but where we again have the same challenge. It is therefore a private legislative proposal, which has not been sent to the hearing, where one has taken care of the interests of parts of Norwegian business, but where other industries may be affected by a legislative proposal that is not sufficiently investigated. I come from a county where we have cyclic industries, such as the shipbuilding industry, fish farming and fish processing, where the cycles are so long that for example. restrictive provisions on how a calculated average working time can get very negative results. Therefore, the Christian People's Party's approach is that we do not want to go into a practice where there are representative proposals to prepare the basis for how business organizes business. We want this thoroughly figured out in a proposition that's announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2973	There has been a long and good debate, which I think has been clarifying that there is a clear distinction in the Stortinget, where the right side stands as a spectator to what is about to happen in Norwegian working life, and will investigate and evaluate and manage things in time, while there is an opposition who wants to grip, and who is now gathering to send a clear signal to the government about what we expect the government to deliver. There has been a stream of Right-People up on this pulpit to create the impression that the Right is concerned with the struggle for a clean and serious working life. But it's their own emergency that makes us in the situation that Norwegian working life is today. Had the Right been equally concerned with solving the problems as they are in creating the impression that they will solve the problems, the problems would have been solved. But the problems have not been solved, and they are increasing in scope. The Progress Party will assess and assess. Tor André Johnsen says that we need to have a knowledge-based approach and a risk assessment before we take action. Yes, if only the representatives of the Progress Party could have the same approach before they put things out on Facebook. Then I have an explanation of vote on behalf of the Workers' Party. In the case of Innst. 131 S, we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 7, from SV, and resolved proposal, No. 8 from the Center Party and SV. In the case of Innst. 132 L, we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 2, from the Center Party and SV. So the signals we've received from this pulpit have shown that it seems to be a majority for proposal No. 6 in the setting. I will praise the Red, SV, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party, who have now announced that they want to vote in favour of that proposal. This would mean that the government would be given the task of providing proposals which would significantly reduce access to rental, protect entire permanent posts, ban the employment contracts of the manning industry, which are so-called fixed-term employees without pay between orders, and tighten up controls and penalties against illegal rental. I would like to make it clear, like Steinar Reiten, that in that proposal we mean "renting" both rentals and rentals. Here the majority show that the Stortinget takes responsibility where the government fails, and I am pleased that the opposition is now gathering for powerful action for Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2984	I feel very strongly about the fact that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have the same entry values – to use the representative's expression – in this debate, and am surprised that no more have gone into the relationship between a well-organised working life and a safe family life. That's one of the things that, from the Center Party's side, is the whole core value behind what we've proposed. I would also like to underline what the representative, Mr Reiten, said, that young people are closest to the industries where there is a significant element of crew companies. There should be a cross-thinking for those who are on the productive side of Norwegian business and employment, and for those who are concerned that practically interested young people will have work on pay and working conditions that allow them to walk with a raised head. There are too many industries where there is such a large proportion of staff companies and temporary jobs that their jobs are not attractive. It helps to get out of school. It contributes to problems in many areas. I am very grateful for the representative, Mr. Reitten, who said the same thing at that point. I understand that the Christian People's Party wants a thorough investigation of the conditions that we are now discussing, in relation to the proposition that comes. We have tried to discuss the question of demarcation in depth. We have gone through the point by point to look at it and have had a close cooperation – as I have said – with both the National Association of Building Industries and the Joint Alliance. They represent quite broad interests in this. I would like to stress that cyclical industries will continue to meet their labour needs through the temporary employment proposed by us in the Centre Party, and also through what we propose regarding the use of manning companies. We are not going into quotas, as the government suggested – that one should be able to have allowances for the use of crews in Norwegian working life – because it has been rejected by both the NHO and the LO. That's why we've come up with an alternative to take care of what the government was trying to clean up. So we're going to find another solution to that point. Finally, I would like to give an explanation of vote if I may. In the case of Innst. 132 L, the Centre Party will vote in a subsidiary way for proposal No. 1 on the proposal from the Centre Party and the Socialist Left, No. Two, it's going to fall. In the case of Innst. 131 S, the Central Party shall vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals No. 1 to 3. We are voting against the proposal No. Four and five. As regards proposal No: 6, we shall vote in favour of it, too, on the proposal of the Central Party, No. 9, is clearer at that point. As regards proposal No: 7, from the Socialist Left Party, we are voting against that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e2995	Fail, Grande calls us. I want to repeat that it is proven that the fight against crime at work has been strengthened in the last four years. In 2016, 3,200 businesses were controlled, and 254 criminal networks were revealed. The Labour Inspectorate has been strengthened with more resources, but they have also been given the opportunity to penalise enterprises that do not ensure that employees have HMS cards. Several service centres have also been established to ensure that foreign workers receive good information about their rights and obligations. Developments in the labour market are now very closely monitored. This is an area that is demanding, where we see criminal networks adapt and renew as new measures are introduced. This is therefore a continuous work in which the government, together with the social partners, cleans up unclear legislation and develops new regulations. When ID cards are now introduced to prevent misuse of ID documents and when the People's Register is renewed, the proper registration of enterprises and persons in public registers has been strengthened. From 1 January 2017, the public acquisition code was tightened up. More stringent requirements are now being imposed on orders and suppliers. In addition, all enterprises relevant to it have been required to have apprentices, i.e. one apprentice per job they do for the country. To prevent foreign criminals from escaping, there is now closer cooperation across borders. The Labour Inspectorate has inter alia: cooperation with equivalent supervision in a number of countries, including Latvia, Bulgaria and Poland. The government’s strategy against labour crime was presented in the autumn of 2015 and reviewed every six months with the parties. The Prime Minister has taken initiatives towards the EU, inviting her to join in the fight against crime in the labour market. The EU itself has introduced 20 principles for new labour policies in its social pillars. We are aware that it can quickly be seen as self-crust when we frame up everything that has been done. The point is that whoever claims that the government does not take the crime of working life seriously is very wrong. I will dare to claim that more has happened the four years we have been sitting with power, than in the period before that. But that doesn't mean that the job is done. We're going to clean up, we're going to pull away the carpet during the foot party that organized crime has got in the labour market in Norway – but the opposition's proposal is not proper medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3004	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. Nine and ten. The President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 11-17 is treated as a single agent. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3089	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3101	Then we're ready to go to voting. Case No. 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3112	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, from Jon Engen-Helgheim on behalf of Right and Advance Party proposal No 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, by Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 5, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Environmental Party of the Green Party and the Red Party Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 10 June 2005 51 concerning Norwegian citizenship is amended as follows: In Chapter 5, Section 26(a) is added as follows: § 26 a Loss of citizenship in criminal matters The person who has Norwegian and other citizenships and has demonstrated a serious adverse effect on Norway’s vital interests may, by judgment, lose his Norwegian citizenship if he is penalised by a provision of the penal law, Chapters 16, 17 or 18, which may lead to a prison sentence for 21 years or more. Infringement of Section 127 of the Penal Code for having entered into an association with anyone to commit offences as referred to in Section 123 of the Criminal Code does not, however, justify the loss of Norwegian citizenship under the paragraph here. [[State secret disclosure]] No one shall lose Norwegian citizenship after the paragraph here for acts committed before the age of 18. Norwegian citizenship may not be lost under this paragraph if, taking into account the seriousness of the relationship and the nationality's connection with the State, it would be disproportionate to the person or members of the family closest to him or her. In matters relating to children, the best interests of the child shall be fundamental.’» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3156	Proposal No. 1, from the Right and the Front, will now be taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No 10 June 2005 51 on Norwegian citizenship is amended as follows: In Chapter 5, Section 26(a) is added as follows: § 26 a Loss of citizenship in criminal matters The person who has Norwegian and other citizenships and has demonstrated a serious adverse effect on Norway’s vital interests may, by judgment, lose his Norwegian citizenship if he is penalised by a provision of the penal law, Chapters 16, 17 or 18, which may result in a prison sentence for six years or more. Infringement of Section 127 of the Penal Code for having entered into an association with anyone to commit offences as referred to in Section 123 of the Criminal Code does not, however, justify the loss of Norwegian citizenship under the paragraph here. [[State secret disclosure]] No one shall lose Norwegian citizenship after the paragraph here for acts committed before the age of 18. Norwegian citizenship may not be lost under this paragraph if, taking into account the seriousness of the relationship and the nationality's connection with the State, it would be disproportionate to the person or members of the family closest to him or her. In matters relating to children, the best interests of the child shall be fundamental. In Chapter 5, Section 26(b) is added as follows: § 26 b Loss of citizenship for fundamental national interests Anyone who has Norwegian and other citizenship and has behaved strongly to the detriment of Norway's vital interests may lose his Norwegian citizenship for fundamental national interests. No one shall lose Norwegian citizenship after the paragraph here for acts committed before the age of 18. Norwegian citizenship may not be lost under this paragraph if, taking into account the seriousness of the relationship and the nationality's connection with the State, it would be disproportionate to the person or members of the family closest to him or her. In matters relating to children, the best interests of the child shall be fundamental. Between Chapter 6 the title and Section 27 the following title is inserted: I. Administrative proceedings Paragraph 27, first, second and third paragraphs, is replaced by the following: The application for Norwegian citizenship is submitted to the police or Norwegian foreign station preparing the case. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs shall decide on the application. Decisions to reject the application pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 7 shall be taken by the Ministry. Notification of Norwegian citizenship is submitted to the police preparing the case. The Foreign Affairs Directorate decides whether or not to accept the notification. Decisions on withdrawal of citizenship are taken by the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. Decisions on the loss of citizenship under Section 26(b) are taken by the Ministry. Decisions referred to in the first and second subparagraphs may be appealed against to the Department of Foreign Affairs. Decisions under the second paragraph of Section 7 and Section 26(b) may not be appealed. If an action is brought against the validity of the decision of the Ministry under the second paragraph of Section 7 or Section 26(b), the State bears all the costs of the case. The King of the State Council is the Board of Appeal in cases where the Ministry has applied its command authority under the second paragraph of Section 28. The first paragraph of Sections 77, 78 and 79 of the Foreign Affairs Act applies mutatis mutandis to proceedings under the law here. Paragraph 27, seventh paragraph, is replaced by the following: In the case referred to in the fourth subparagraph, that case shall be governed by the right to free jurisdiction without any appropriate examination. In the case referred to in the sixth subparagraph, the person concerned shall have the right to free conduct without examination. By decision taken pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 7 and to the second paragraph of Article 26(b), the case is governed by the right to free judicial advice without examination of the need, free conduct of proceedings without examination of the need and exemption from legal fees. Chapter 6 the following Section II is added: II. Case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities relating to the validity of decisions under the second paragraph of Article 7 and Article 26(b) § 31 a Relationship with the Arbitration Act The law of dispute shall apply where there is no other consequence of the rules given in or in accordance with the law here. § 31 b Time limits for actions The decision must be brought before the Court of First Instance within one month of the date on which the decision is notified to the party. Refresh may be granted in the event of a breach of the time limit for bringing proceedings if: (a) information relating to material facts which were or were not known at the time of the decision is submitted to the Court of Justice and that matter shall be brought before the Court as soon as possible after the information is known; or (b) a binding decision of an international court, or other similar fact, indicates that decisions may have been based on incorrect application of international law. § 31 c Appointment of a special lawyer As a condition for the keeping of evidence of circumstances which may otherwise be kept secret for the sake of national security or relations with a foreign State, see: § 22-1 of the Arbitration Act, the King may provide that the information shall be disclosed only to a specific lawyer appointed for that matter. The special lawyer shall be appointed by the court as soon as possible after a decision as referred to in the first subparagraph has been taken and shall be remunerated by the State in accordance with the rules laid down in the Law of 13 June 1980 No. 35 on free legal aid. This applies even if the case is not the subject of a free trial and without any need-to-be examination being carried out. The same special lawyer shall be appointed at all stages of the case, unless specific reasons warrant otherwise. The king shall lay down detailed rules as to who may be appointed as a special lawyer, including requirements for security clearance. § 31 d The role of the separate lawyer The special lawyer shall be made aware of the information and evidence provided on the basis of his consent under the second paragraph of Section 22-1 of the Arbitration Act and shall take care of the interests of that case in relation to its proceedings. The Court of First Instance determines how the special lawyer should have access to the classified information. The special lawyer shall be notified of any court meetings held in the case and shall have the right to be present throughout the proceedings. The special lawyer shall maintain silence on the content of the information referred to in the first subparagraph, on what appears during the processing of the information and on the part of the judgment of the court in which the information is referred. The obligation of professional secrecy shall also apply after the termination of the mission. The king may lay down detailed rules. § 31 e Processing of information referred to in § 22-1 of the Arbitration Act Information referred to in Section 22-1 of the Arbitration Act shall not include witnesses other than those to which the King consents. That case and its ordinary procedural agent shall not participate in the part of the case in which the information referred to in the first subparagraph is dealt with. Such information shall be made known only to the court and to the special lawyer. If the court finds that the conditions laid down in the first paragraph of Section 22-1 of the Arbitration Act do not exist, the court may, on application by the special lawyer or on its own initiative, decide to give it access to the information. In that case, the King may decide that the information shall not be used as evidence in the case. No person who has had access to the information in question may participate as a judge in the proceedings. § 31 f Communication between the special lawyer, the case in question and his ordinary procedural agent After the specific lawyer has been given access to the information referred to in the first subparagraph of Section 31(c), he may not discuss the matter orally or in writing with that matter or with his procedural agent, or speak in legal proceedings in which that matter is involved or his procedural agent is present. However, the special lawyer may receive written enquiries. The king may prescribe the communication between the special lawyer and the case and his ordinary procedural agent. The king may also give instructions on the individual lawyer’s access to a position on the matter in question at a later stage. § 31 g Other rules on the handling of the case by the court The procedure shall be prioritised and accelerated as far as possible. The court may not be set up with a judge or co-judgment. The first paragraph of § 9-12 of the Arbitration Act and § 29-17 do not apply. § 31 h Judgments of the Court of First Instance The Court of First Instance ruled that the party and the individual lawyer had the opportunity to make their views known. The judgment of the Court of First Instance, pursuant to the third paragraph of Section 31(e), shall be delivered by order of the Court of First Instance. The special lawyer or state may appeal within two weeks. That case is pending and its procedural agent is not entitled to have access to the part of the decision of the case which contains the information referred to in the first paragraph of Section 31c. II In Law 13 June 1980 No. 35 in the case of free legal aid is amended as follows: Paragraph 11, first paragraph, point (b) 1 is replaced by the following: 1. for non-residents who are entitled to free legal aid under the first paragraph of Section 92, the second subparagraph and the first sentence of the third subparagraph, or for those who are entitled to free legal aid under the first or third sentence of Section 27 of the seventh paragraph of the Civil Code. Paragraph 16, first paragraph, point (b) 4 is replaced by the following: 4. for foreigners in cases referred to in the second sentence of the third paragraph of Section 92 of the Foreign Affairs Act and the fourth paragraph of Section 129, second paragraph, or for those who are entitled to free movement under the second or third sentence of the seventh paragraph of Section 27 of the Civil Code. III In Law 17 December 1982 No. 86 on the legal fee is amended as follows: Paragraph 10, first paragraph, new paragraph. 17 is replaced by the following: 17th case under the second and third sentence of the third paragraph of Section 27 of the Civil Code, cf. Law 13 June 1980 No. 35 on freedom to provide legal aid § 16, first paragraph, point 4th@item: inlistbox IV In Law 20 May 2005 No 28 on punishment shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 29(f) is replaced by the following: f) loss of rights, cf. Chapter 10 or the National Act § 26 a. VT 1st@item: inlistbox The law will come into force from the time the King decides. Paragraphs 26(a) and 26(b) of the Citizenship Act apply only to acts committed after their entry into force and publication. 2nd@item: inlistbox The king may specify transitional rules.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3377	First, there is a vote on the part of the proposal that relates to § 26(a).
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3389	The rest of the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party is then voted for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3431	The Socialist Left and Red have warned that they will vote against it. The President will note that Section 26(a) of the Recommendation is identical to Section 26(a) of Proposal No. 1, from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3648	Right, the Progress Party and Red have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3660	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The President assumed that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Red Party would vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3674	The law decision will be passed until a second time in a future meeting of the Stortinge. Proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to establish a system of prompt judicial review of cases relating to the loss of citizenship in the interests of fundamental national interests.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Left have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3693	Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with proposals for the loss of citizenship in the interests of fundamental national interests and for such losses to be decided by the Court of Justice.’.» The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3710	It was also recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3720	The right hand side and the progress side have warned that they will vote against it. The Greens have warned the Greens that they will vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3734	Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The majority consider it highly critical that Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration Sylvi Listhaug has made public false and offensive allegations relating to the fight against terrorism in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e3753	In the course of the debate, one proposal has been put forward. It is from Mari Holm Lønseth on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 17 June 2005 No. 101 if ownership registration is subject to the following changes: In Section 7, fifth paragraph, 14 third paragraph, 15 third paragraph, 18 third paragraph, 20 fourth paragraph, 21 second paragraph, 27 second paragraph, 29 third paragraph, 31 third paragraph, 39 third paragraph, 41 sixth paragraph, 43 second paragraph, and 48 first paragraph, last sentence, the wording ‘may give more detailed rules’ shall be amended to ‘may prescribe’. Paragraph 3(f), (g), (h) and (i) are replaced by the following: f) matrixing: introduce a new matrix unit into the matrix; (g) "measurement shop" means the task of clarifying and describing limits and rights to fixed ownership, and providing the necessary documentation for the requirements of matriculation, as set out in: § 33, h) surveyors shall mean undertakings or public entities which comply with the requirements of this Act to carry out measuring activities; i) ‘responsible surveyor’ means the representative of a surveyor’s unit which is set by the enterprise to rent a surveyor’s business; § 3 current letter i until l becomes the new letter j to m. Paragraph 4, third and fourth paragraphs, is replaced by the following: The matrix may refer to information on fixed ownership in other registers. The Ministry may provide instructions on the content of the matricle, for example on the geographical indications of rights in immovable property. Paragraph 5(a) is replaced by the following: § 5 a Matrikkel styrelsemakta The matricle steering authority shall operate for the purpose of guidance, arrangement, operation and management of the matricle. For example, the Ministry may provide instructions on the transfer of tasks and forms to municipalities. Paragraph 6(d) of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: d) land transfer information, alteration of land limits, border adjustment and clarification of the existing limit; or Paragraph 6, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: In the case of specific reasons, the food ricket steering authority may, upon application, enter a new food ricket unit into the matrix without completion of the measuring operation. If the business is not completed at the fixed time, the matricle board may decide to complete the business of the responsible surveyor or homeowner. A requirement to cover the costs of completing the measurement is a specific coercive basis for outlays and may be enforced under Section 7-2(e) of the Enforcement Act. The fourth paragraph of Section 6 is replaced by the following: The Ministry may provide instructions on pre-maturity measurement operations during the completion of such measurement operations. Section 7 is replaced by the following: § 7 Requirements for a clear limit prior to the clearing of custody Paragraph 7, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: The matricle governing authority determines which properties fulfil the conditions of the first and second paragraphs and notes them in the matrix. Section 8 is replaced by the following: § 8 Matrikeling requirements Matrikelling requirements in matters requiring a measuring shop shall be issued by the responsible surveyor and sent to the food rug management authority. In conjunction with the requirements for the feeding of food, the documentation necessary for the feeding of the food column and the base book shall be attached. The Ministry may prescribe the conditions under which mating is to be carried out, under this heading, on the content and layout of the requirements for feeding. Section 9 the title is replaced by the following: § 9 Anyone Who Can Require Matriculation Paragraph 9, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following: The Ministry may provide instructions on who may require matrixing. Section 10 is replaced by the following: § 10 Common conditions for matriculation The sixth paragraph of Section 10 is replaced by the following: The Ministry may prescribe the entry of a new unit of matriculation, for example, to exempt from the obligation of matriculation and restriction and to extend the conditions of matriculation. Paragraph 11(a) is added as follows: § 11 a Special attention to the feeding of owner-occupied sections The matricle steering authority shall bring the sections into the matrix as soon as a decision on sectioning or resectioning is taken from the municipality. A utility unit intended to include new or modified unconstructed parts cannot be registered until there is a measurement facility for the boundaries of the outdoor area, as specified. Section 6. Paragraph 12 fourth and new fifth and sixth paragraphs are replaced by the following: Prior to the inclusion of a matrix for the modification of anchorage ground limits that go beyond the adjustments that can be dealt with under Section 16, a permission must be granted as for the creation of a new mounting ground. In addition, there must be the necessary evidence of changes in the right of attachment, non-payment of pledges and concessions for the area. A measuring transaction that changes the limits of the right of attachment may be required by those referred to in points (a) and (f) of the first paragraph of Section 9 in cases required by point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 9, consent must be given by the party. The change of limits covering unattriculated units can only occur in cases where this is required by point (f) of the first paragraph of Section 9 and only at the same time as the units are matrixd. For example, the Ministry may provide instructions on the feeding of fasteners for those who may be required to carry food. the first paragraph of Section 14 is replaced by the following: Soil herds may be registered in the matrix with their own matrix number when the unit is likely to be a herd of soil. Soil owners can be registered even if it is not completely clear who has parties to the joint and how large the parties are. The provisions of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 10 relate to liabilities. Paragraph 16 is replaced by the following: § 16 Marginal adjustment A boundary between matrix lines can be adjusted without prompting you about a mortgage. This applies mutatis mutandis to the adjustment of a boundary between a land and the land or the land of which the land is part. The limit cannot be adjusted in conflict with the requirements of other laws or regulations. Adjustments allow only smaller areas to be transferred between the units concerned. A unilateral transfer of smaller area can be carried out as a limit adjustment. Warrants and warrants follow the new limits as determined by border adjustment. The right to pledge shall be valid for other courts as far as is appropriate. Limit adjustment may be required by those mentioned in Section 9. Modifying the retention limits is only allowed when consenting to the attachment. The limit adjustment of an unattracted unit can only be done at the same time as the unit is matrixd. The Ministry may provide for limit adjustments below this set area and value limits for areas transferred between the units. Paragraph 17 is replaced by the following: § 17 Clearance of existing frontier, spot and local dishes The matriculation of the clearance of existing borders, spot and local dishes, carried out as a separate business, may be required by: a) someone who has a base box housing that owns or attaches to the relevant matrix unit; or (b) the State, state authorities, county or municipality. The Ministry may provide for clarification of the existing limit, spot-fixed local dishes, who may be required to do so, and for exemptions from measurement business requirements. Section 19 is replaced by the following: § 19 Reference to the agreement on limits, etc. The matricle control authority may include in the matrix references to agreements on existing limits for a matricle unit if the limit is not previously established in a measuring transaction or in a corresponding business according to another or earlier law. The same shall apply to agreements on the location of existing and undetermined points and on the confirmation of permanent localised rights which are not covered by Section 6 and which relate to part of an existing property, plant property or land, or to an existing land or outdoor area of a section of ownership. The Ministry may provide that such an agreement may be ordered only if the contract has a reference in the matricule. The Ministry may prescribe agreements which may be referenced in the matrix. Paragraph 20, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: Owners shall be notified of the registration in a manner which is appropriate and demonstrative. the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 21 is replaced by the following: Before a final decision is taken by the municipality, those who are affected by the decision shall be given the opportunity to make their views known. Paragraph 22 first to fourth paragraphs is replaced by the following: Matrikel guidance requirements shall be treated without undue delay. Matrikeling requirements that do not meet the conditions of this Act shall be rejected. The rejection shall be written and reasoned. However, if the requirement is less lacking, matrix feeding may take place. A time limit shall be set to correct the deficiency. The matricle governing authority shall also include information on cases before the ordinary courts, the right to change the land or the relevant specialised court. The provisions of the first subparagraph shall apply as far as they are suitable for the conveyance of such information. Public sector bodies shall include information in the matrix when provided for by law, regulation or by agreement with the governing body. The Matrikkel Governing Authority may obtain from the People's Register and other administrative registers information to be used in the matrix. The entry of information in the matrix may only be carried out by a person authorised by the matricle steering authority. The surveyor in charge of the surveyor is not able to present information on a surveyor’s business that is responsible or part of the surveyor’s business. The same applies to other responsible land painters in the same office, subordinates or assistants. Paragraph 22 seventh paragraph is replaced by the following: The Ministry may provide instructions on the keeping of the mating bar and the bodies which are able to carry out food entry tasks, for example on information for homeowners or other matters, on time limits, reporting, quality assurance and the storage of food information, and on the approval of persons who are required to carry information in the mating bar. Paragraph 23 first and second paragraphs shall be replaced by the following: The matricle steering authority assigns the matrix number by introducing the matrix unit into the matrix. The matricle steering authority may assign a new matricle number to a unit not numbered in accordance with the provisions of this Act. Section 24 is replaced by the following: § 24 Tingling and issuing of matrikkelbrev etc. Paragraph 24 first paragraph is replaced by the following: As soon as the creation of a new matrix unit, aggregation, change of ownership section, land transfer or change of a fixed ground in excess of limit adjustments according to Section 16 is included in the matrix, the matrix steering authority shall notify this to object lighting. As regards the matter of the creation or modification of the ownership section, municipalities which themselves carry the matriculate column under Section 5(a) shall, however, not send the message until any complaints about the sectional decision have been decided, cf. section law of owners § 17. Paragraph 24 third paragraph is replaced by the following: As soon as the food control authority has been informed that object lighting has been carried out as foreseen, she shall complete the feeder guide and confirm this by issuing a matriculate letter. The time of final creation, aggregation, change or land transfer shall be calculated at the same time as the object lighting. The matricle steering authority shall send the matricle letter to the surveyor's unit. Where a limit to adjacent matrikel lines is marked or re-measured, the matrikel steering authority shall send the relevant extracts of letters of matrikel to the owners and any attachments of these units. The transmission shall provide information on the possibility of appeals and time limits for appeals. Paragraph 24(6) is replaced by the following: The Ministry may give instructions on the notification of matters, the issue of a bill of lading, etc. and the ability to confirm ownership by self-evident means, and may under this provide for procedures to ensure consistency between the matrix and the base book. Section 25 is replaced by the following: § 25 Provision of information on buildings, addresses, municipal orders, etc. Paragraph 25 third to sixth paragraphs shall be replaced by the following: Information shall be given by the municipality on the obligations relating to the use of land and buildings as soon as the municipality has agreed, amended or repealed the obligation. Otherwise, information shall be entered by the municipality on the basis of other municipal procedures when it is stipulated by law or regulation that this information is to be entered in the matrix. The municipality may, by agreement, entrust to another municipality, in accordance with the rules laid down in Chapter 5(A) of the Municipality Council or the Matrikel Board of Governors, to carry the matrikel on its behalf. The Ministry may provide for the reporting and keeping of information on buildings, addresses and other information to be included in the food chain and on the ability of the municipality to lay down additional local regulations. Paragraph 26 is replaced by the following: § 26 Correction of information in the matrix and deletion of the matrix unit The matrix controller can delete a matrix device from the matrix if there is no basis for creating the device. The same applies to food wires that no longer exist physically. If the unit is entered in the base book, it can only be removed from the matrix if it is deleted from the base book. Ownership sections that will be deleted from the base book after adoption of Section 22 of the Ownership Act shall be removed from the matrix. The matricle governing authority completes the deletion by issuing matricle letters in accordance with the third paragraph of Section 24. Information on limits and geographical information on point-to-point and town-to-town dishes may only be supplemented or modified on the basis of a new measurement transaction, cf. § 17, judgment given by the courts, cf. Paragraph 22, second paragraph, or agreement between the parties where the conditions for this are in place, cf. Section 19. However, the matricle steering authority may correct such information when it is proved that the information is incorrect, and this is due to errors in the registration or maintenance of the matricle. Other information may be corrected by the body leading the information, if it is incorrect, incomplete, the basis for the registration has lapsed, or it is not possible to process it in the matrix. The body shall correct the information when a party so requests and is able to demonstrate that the information is correct. The Danish Matrikel Board may, by means of specific measures, correct the information when it has something significant to say about the matrikel as a unique and reliable register. Parties to whom correction, modification or addition has been made shall be informed. This paragraph is preceded by the Personal Information Act § 27 on the correction of missing personal data. The Ministry may provide instructions on corrections, changes and additions to the matrix and on the deletion of the matrix unit, for example on instruction and when instruction can be omitted. In Section 27, the «central matricle steering power» shall be changed to «matricle steering power». Paragraph 28 is replaced by the following: § 28 Oversight of the matrix display The mating board authority shall monitor that the mating board is operated in accordance with law, regulation or administrative provisions and may impose instructions on the correction of information or other measures to correct deficiencies in the manner in which it is conducted. Paragraph 29, first and second paragraphs, is replaced by the following: Everyone has the right to see the matrix. The matricle governing authority and local authorities shall verify that information on the matricle is available on request. The matricle governing authority shall issue matricle letters when required by a person mentioned in Section 9. Paragraph 30 is replaced by the following: § 30 Provision and processing of matrix information and other information on property surveys Matrikel information and other information on property surveys may be provided: a) for public planning, processing and administration; b) for tasks under this Act, the Planning and Building Act or the Ownership Act; (c) in the case of a request for public permission; or (d) to take care of other interests arising from the consultation or use of food chains. Matrikkel information and other information on property surveys may be provided for other purposes if the data subject is required to maintain a legitimate interest and the protection of the data subject's privacy does not exceed that interest. Matrikel information and other information on property surveys that do not contain personal data, or only include information that identifies, maps or type-determines matrikeleiningen, buildings or addresses, may be provided at any time. Conditions may be attached to the provision and processing of matriculate information and other information on property surveys. Matrix information and other information on property surveys shall not be provided if these are the object of vital personal or public interest. The delivery of the birth number may only take place if the conditions laid down in Section 12 of the Personal Information Act are fulfilled. The Ministry may provide instructions on the processing, distribution and sale of matriculation information and other information on the collection of property, and on the exemption from the obligation to notify pursuant to Section 31 of the Personal Information Act for processing under the second paragraph. Paragraph 31, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: For the purposes of accessing the matrix and for use in measuring establishments under this Act, maps showing technical and topographical conditions at and near the relevant matrix unit shall be available, together with information from the matrix. The municipality shall provide advice to the local government on the information required from its local authority for the production of such maps. Paragraph 32 is replaced by the following: § 32 Public fee and payment for food notices The local authority and the local government may charge a fee for the supply of food, the issue of food leaflets and other work in accordance with the regulations laid down by the Ministry. Payment may be required for the supply of information from the matrix. No payment can be made for the transparency of the mat at the personal presence of the municipality or the matricle governing authority. The Ministry may prescribe payment for information from the matrix. Chapter 7 is replaced by the following: Chapter 7 Measurement business, requirements for surveyors and responsible surveyors Paragraph 33, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: A measuring shop is designed to clarify and describe limits and dishes in line with the claims of the parties and documents submitted, or to provide information and documentation necessary for the conveyance of food and, where appropriate, for the lighting of things. The operator of the survey facility shall take care of the interests of all parties and carry out the business in accordance with good survey practice. Paragraph 33, third and fourth paragraphs, is replaced by the following: In a business involving the creation of a new matrix unit or a land transfer, the new boundaries shall be marked in the field in accordance with municipal law. New boundaries for the outlying areas of the owner section shall be marked in accordance with the decision to that effect under the ownership law. If during business conditions arise that create the need to make minor deviations in order to obtain a useful limit on the terrain, the case must be submitted to the municipality for approval. The parties and the operator have access to private and public property. The surveyor's unit may carry out measurement work in connection with the business according to the rules of Section 41. Paragraph 33, sixth paragraph, is replaced by the following: The Ministry may prescribe the execution and documentation of measuring operations. Paragraph 34, first paragraph, third sentence, is replaced by the following: Coordinates shall be established on a geodetic basis approved by the Matrikel Steering Authority. Paragraph 34, fifth paragraph, is replaced by the following: The Ministry may prescribe the marking, measurement and mapping of matrike wires, during which time the boundary marking may be omitted. Paragraph 35 is replaced by the following: § 35 Agreement and order of a measuring shop An agreement for a measurement transaction shall be written. The Ministry may provide instructions on ordering a measuring shop, for example on the content and design of an agreement on such a business. Paragraph 36 is added as follows: § 36 The execution of the assignment, warning, etc. The surveyor shall notify the time and location of a measurement transaction to the parties with at least two weeks’ notice. The parties may accept shorter notices. The notice shall state the nature of the business, the procedure and the means of redress. The surveyor shall point out a responsible surveyor for each task. The responsible surveyor must have valid maps. The responsible surveyor shall take care of the interests of all the parties, examine the relevant documents and otherwise carry out the task in accordance with good landscape design. If the responsible surveyor, the surveyor or any of the members of the surveyor’s office have, or have, an economic or personal interest in the ownership of the surveyor or there are other peculiarities which are capable of weakening their confidence in the impartiality of the surveyor, the parties shall be informed thereof without delay. A party may refuse to accept the business when the responsible surveyor or any other person carrying out the business: (a) is a party to the proceedings; (b) are in kinship with a party in the ascending or descending line or in the lateral line as close as the sibling; (c) are or have been married to, caged or tendered in a matrimonial relationship with, are or have been engaged to, or have our foster father, foster mother or foster child of a party; (d) is a court or tribunal for a party to the proceedings or has been such a court or tribunal after the commencement of proceedings. The Ministry may provide instructions on the range of the third paragraph and on alerts and proclamations. Paragraph 37 is added as follows: § 37 Journaling and archiving The surveyor undertakes to keep records of commissioned and executed missions. The records and other documents relating to the mission shall be kept for at least 10 years after the end of the mission. The Ministry may provide for record-keeping and archiving. Paragraph 38 is added as follows: § 38 Requirements for surveyors, assignment of surveyors' letters, etc. A surveyor who undertakes tasks under this law must have at least one surveyor with a valid surveyor's letter in each fixed office. The surveyor’s undertaking must have insurance or provide other secure insurance covering the responsibilities of the surveyor’s undertaking and the surveyor’s responsible may be responsible for carrying out surveying operations. Upon application, the Matrikkel Governing Authority may award letters to persons who: (a) is empowered and empowered to carry out property surveys; (b) have approved training; c) have at least two years of relevant experience in completed training; and d) has passed an approved authorisation test. Land painters’ letters may be withdrawn temporarily or permanently in the event of a breach of a charter or a permit granted under or under this Law, the Law on Planning and Building or the Law on Ownership, in the case of repeated warnings, or if the land painter no longer fulfils the conditions for having a surveyor’s letter. A surveyor who no longer complies with the requirements for having a surveyor’s letter shall notify the board within 14 days. The Ministry may prescribe requirements for surveyors, for example on financial security and the organisation of operations. The Ministry may lay down the conditions governing the admission of surveyors, the award and withdrawal of such letters, the training requirements and the fees. The Ministry may provide that property survey may be carried out temporarily by persons legally established in another EEA State for the purpose of carrying out such activity there and for the practice of such activity, including exceptions to the rules laid down in the Act here. Chapter 8 is replaced by the following: Chapter 8 on geodetic basis, survey work, etc. Paragraph 39, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: The municipality shall determine additional geodetic data when municipal tasks under the laws here or the Planning and Building Act so require and make them available to users of such data. Paragraph 42 is replaced by the following: § 42 Removal of marks and signals Marking and signalling may be required if the use of the property or property on which it is based makes this necessary. The removal shall be carried out by the owners of the mark or signal. The removal of the boundary mark, such as the demarcation of the boundary mark or any mark likely to be confused with a valid border mark, shall be documented and reported to the matricle steering authority. Marking and signalling can also be removed by the municipality or state's geodetic professional body if they are designed and positioned so that they can lead to confusion with the adjacent tag and associated signal. Expired or invalid border marks, or marks which may be confused with valid border marks, may also be removed by the municipality, the right to change the land or the power to control the matricle. Land surveyors shall, by their own means, remove marks which the undertaking has misjudged. The identification and the signal included in the superior national basis may not be required to be removed after the first subparagraph or removed by the municipality after the second subparagraph. The same applies to base points and monumental landmarks. If compensation has been granted under Section 41, the sum of the claims may be recovered in whole or in part by removal after the first subparagraph, if the sum exceeds the loss suffered. The Ministry may prescribe the procedure for removing the mark and signal. Paragraph 46 is replaced by the following: § 46 Complaints, advance notices and notification of decisions The following decisions may be appealed under this law: a) matriculation of matters requiring a measurement transaction in accordance with § 6 (b) a decision to complete a measurement transaction in accordance with the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 6, second paragraph; (c) decide on the extent to which the limit has been clarified in accordance with the third paragraph of Section 7; (d) aggregation, as indicated. § 18 (e) the introduction of a reference to a limit agreement, etc. , cf. § 19 (f) the definition of collective fixed ownership, cf. Article 20 (g) the award of the official address under the heading of Section 21; (h) the deletion of the matriculate unit under the first paragraph of Section 26; (i) refusal of the right to rectify the information contained in the matrix, as provided for in: Paragraph 26, third and fourth paragraphs j) refusal of access to the matrix pursuant to Section 29 (k) the supply of matrix information and other information on property surveys, as specified. § 30 (l) the establishment of payment by registered office in Section 32 which is not provided for in a regulation or regulation approved by the Ministry; (m) the award and withdrawal of letters of agreement for surveyors pursuant to the second and third subparagraphs of Article 38; (n) decision on periodic penalty payments, as provided for in: Paragraph 48. The Board of Appeal is the Ministry or the Board of Appeal the Ministry points out. The rules on appeal against individual decisions of the Administrative Act Chapter VI shall apply to all complaints referred to in the first subparagraph. Prior notification and notification of the decision in cases referred to in points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph, the Board of Appeal shall be sent to the Landlord. The Ministry may prescribe appeals, advance notices and notifications. Paragraph 47, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Disputes about the execution of the survey work according to § 41 or whether the removal of the mark or signal according to § 42 is decided by the county council. The decision of the county council cannot be appealed against. Paragraph 48, first paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: The local authority or the local government may decide to impose periodic penalty payments in order to have decisions taken in accordance with this law. II In Law 27 June 2008 No. 71 on planning and construction operations are subject to the following changes: Paragraph 20-1, first paragraph, point (m) is replaced by the following: (m) the creation of new land, new plant property or new land same, or the creation of a new land for accumulators which may be valid for more than 10 years, or the modification of limits for such matrix units which cannot be treated as a limit adjustment, as specified. food law. Paragraphs 21-2, sixth paragraph, are replaced by the following: Those referred to in paragraph 9 of the Matrikkel Act may apply for permission to create new land, new plant property, new land or new soil or permission to change the limits of such land parcels which cannot be treated as limit adjustments. The application must specify how the unit is to be designed, including indication of the trajectory on the map. The application must demonstrate how the new units or the change in the limit can adequately address future exploitation of the site, including how site size, common area and site requirements can be met. the fourth paragraph of Section 21-9 is replaced by the following: Authorisation for the measures referred to in point (m) of the first paragraph of Section 20-1 shall be waived if there is no requirement for the introduction of a food-breeding system under the food-breeding law within 3 years after the authorisation has been granted. The authorisation also lapses if the matriculation authority has to reject the requirement for feeding and the conditions for feeding have not been corrected within a specified time limit. In Section 26-1, «property registration law» shall be amended to «matrickel law». the fourth paragraph of Section 29-4 is replaced by the following: The Ministry may provide for detailed rules on the location of construction works, such as rules on distance between construction works, distance from neighbouring borders, and the method of calculation of height and distance, as well as for the area of construction works referred to in point (b) of the third subparagraph. Paragraph 33-1, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: The local authority itself may provide for a fee to the municipality for the processing of an application for authorisation, the drawing up of maps and certificates and for other work required by this law or regulation to be carried out by the municipality, including the processing of private planning proposals. The fee for examining such draft plans may cover the work of the municipality until a decision is taken as to whether to promote the proposal. § 12-11. The fee may not exceed the necessary costs incurred by the municipality with regard to such cases. The fee may include expenditure on the necessary use of expert assistance under supervision. The proportion of fees charged for supervision shall be set out in the Regulation. The action holder may himself arrange for the necessary investigations. III In the Act of 16 June 2017 No. 65 in ownership sections the following changes are made: The second paragraph of Section 13 is deleted. The current third paragraph becomes the second paragraph. Section 14 is replaced by the following: § 14 Time-limit for the examination by the municipality of the application for compartmentalisation The municipality shall examine the sectional application within 12 weeks of receipt of the application. In the case of municipalities which themselves carry information on the owner’s sections of the matricle with the permission of the matricle law § 5(a), the time taken to register the sections of the matricle shall be taken into account in the period after the first sentence. In correcting the application under the first paragraph of Section 12, the deadline runs from the municipality having received a directed application. If the municipality misses these deadlines, the section fee will be reduced by 25 per cent of the total fee for each week started, after § 15. Section 15 is replaced by the following: § 15 Fees for the examination by the municipality of the application for compartmentalisation The municipality may set a compartmentalisation fee to deal with the compartmentalisation request. The fee may not exceed the necessary costs incurred by the municipality with regard to such cases. The fee shall be paid within a time limit set by the municipality. The applicant shall pay a fee for the matriculation and clearance of costs of the compartmentalisation decision in accordance with the Matrikkellova § 32 and § 12(b). The fees shall be paid to the municipality. If the section request is rejected, the municipality shall refund the fees. Paragraph 17 is replaced by the following: § 17 Matrikkelföring and tingling Municipalities which themselves carry information on the owner’s sections of the matrix based on the Matrikkellova § 5 a shall bring the sections into the matrix as soon as the sectioning decision is available. A unit of use, which shall include uninhabited parts, may not be registered in the matrix until the measurement shop for the boundaries of the outdoor area according to the matricle law has been kept. Once any complaints concerning the sectional decision have been settled and a positive sectional decision has been taken, the municipality shall send the documentation necessary for the completion of the matrix and for the creation of the base-box sheets for each section, for matrix guidance and object lighting, as specified. Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law The Ministry may provide instructions on such documentation and the attachments to be included in the supply of food for guidance and briefing purposes. Section 18 is replaced by the following: § 18 Issuance of matrikkelbrev As soon as the food chain authority has been informed that the sectionation decision is intentional, it shall complete the food chain and issue a matriculation letter. the second paragraph of Section 22 is replaced by the following: If a property was compartmentalised before it was completed and no two or more units of use on the property have been built up within five years of the termination of the compartment, the municipality may decide to remove the compartment. For the purposes of this paragraph, complete completion means the construction of a unit of use to the extent that it meets the minimum requirements of the type of section concerned. [[housing section or activity section]] The local authority shall notify the food inspection authority of the deletion of the compartment in the base book and the matrix. The Matrikkel authority and the DSB implement the deletion, and the Matrikkel authority then issues a letter of matrikkel. The deletion in the base book may be carried out without prejudice to any restrictions on availability imposed on any of the sections. IV Law applicable from the time the King was established. The King may activate the individual features at different times. The Ministry may grant more details of transitional duties’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e4792	The President makes note of the case-speaker’s correction of an ortographic error in the recommendation, and that the last sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 shall read ‘central matricle steering power’. Alternatively, the proposal of the Right Party and the Advance Party and the recommendation of the Committee, by the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party, will be rejected. The Green and Red Environmental Party has already given its support to the recommendation. The left has already given its support to the proposal. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should take the following decisions:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5556	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5566	The law decision will be passed until a second time in a future meeting of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5591	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Torhild Bransdal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Foreign Affairs Act shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 84(c) is added as follows: § 84 c Access by police to information about residents in care centres for minors The police shall, without prejudice to professional secrecy and upon written request to care centres for minors, be provided with the following information when necessary for the police's tasks under the Foreign Affairs Act or for police purposes as referred to in Section 2 of the Police Register Act. 13: (a) the name, date of birth and nationality of current and former residents of care centres for minors; b) the date on which residents have moved to or from the care centre; c) the duration of any leave from the care centre; (d) a new place of residence. It is a condition that the disclosure of the information referred to in the first subparagraph is best for the child. The police shall assess whether the extradition is for the best of the child. The request for access referred to in the first subparagraph shall be justified in writing and recorded in the Foreign Affairs and Refugees Computer System. [[DUF]] The King may prescribe the procedure for obtaining the information referred to in the first subparagraph and the further processing of the information obtained`. The Left, the Greens and the Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5688	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Foreign Affairs Act shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 84(b) is replaced by the following: § 84 b Information obligation and exemption from professional secrecy for information about residents in reception and care centres etc. Paragraph 84b, third and fourth and fifth paragraphs are replaced by the following: The police shall, without prejudice to professional secrecy and upon written request to receive or to the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, be provided with the following information when necessary for police duties under the Foreign Affairs Act or for police purposes as referred to in Section 2 of the Police Register Act. 13: a) the name, date of birth and nationality of the current and former residents of reception; b) the date on which residents have moved to or from the reception; c) the duration of any leave from the receipt; (d) a new place of residence. The request for access after the third subparagraph shall be justified in writing and recorded in the Foreign Affairs and Refugees Computer System [[DUF]] The king may prescribe the information to be provided after the first subparagraph, the procedure for obtaining the information referred to in the first and third subparagraphs and the further processing of the information obtained.`; The Left, the Greens and the Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5750	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5760	The law decision will be passed until a second time in a future meeting of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5832	It is contested by I, § 48, first paragraph and § 128, first paragraph. The Left Party, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they would vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5846	It is contested by Section I, Section 130, new fourth paragraph. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5861	President! My vote was not recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5866	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5878	The rest of the I and the II are getting wet. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5892	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5906	President! I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5911	My vote was not recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5916	Then we take the vote again. Representatives must press hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5929	The law decision will be passed until a second time in a future meeting of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5938	In the course of the debate, 11 proposals have been put forward in all. It's proposed no. 1-5, by Masud Gharahkhani on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 6, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centre Party proposed no. 7-9, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 10 and 11, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centerpartiet Proposal No. 8 and 9 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Foreign Affairs Act shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 106(c) in the first paragraph, the last sentence is replaced by the following: A minor non-resident located in the country without parents or others with parental responsibility may not be admitted’. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Foreign Affairs Act shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 106(c) fourth paragraph is replaced by the following: The police shall notify the Child Welfare Service of the arrest of children as soon as possible after it is likely that the police will seek detention. In any case, alerts shall be given as soon as possible if other specific reasons so require. The Child Protection Service shall attend a meeting on detention if it does not find it unnecessary to do so. In cases where the child protection service is not involved, they shall, as far as possible, give a written opinion in the case, unless the court or child protection service considers it clearly unnecessary. In the event of participation in a meeting of detention or any written opinion, the Child Protection Service shall give its opinion on the need for action under the Child Protection Act, alternatives to detention, the situation where only one of the child’s parents is internalised and the child’s internalisation with his or her parents is ensured. The provisions of Section 118 of the Criminal Procedures Act apply mutatis mutandis.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e5985	Proposal No. 3 and 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals as soon as possible with the legislative changes necessary for electronic control to be used as an alternative to detention or detention of children’s families to be forced to return, so that detention of children’s families is used only as a last resort when all other options, including electronic control, have been tested. [[Electronic footlink]] Where the authorities conclude that detention is the last resort, after having tried other alternatives, the detention shall take place in a separate child and family centre which is family-friendly and child-friendly and which takes care of the child’s needs.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests an evaluation of the use of electronic footlinks as an alternative to alienation.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6009	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose several alternatives to detain children in the context of transport under the Foreign Affairs Act.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Green Party and the Red Party have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6026	Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that real alternatives to the detention of lone minor asylum seekers are established as soon as possible, which will ensure that the best interests of the child are taken into account.’ The Central Party, the Left, the Green Party and the Red Party have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6043	Proposal No. 6 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the unexploited use of electronic control as an alternative to detention of children’s families to be returned, so that detention of children’s families is only used as a last resort when other alternatives have been tested or evaluated. [[Electronic footlink]] Where the authorities conclude that detention is necessary, after having tried or assessed other alternatives, the detention shall be carried out at a separate family and family centre that is family-friendly and meets the needs of the child. A case for the Storting shall be brought forward as soon as possible’. The left has already given its support to the proposal. The Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party and the Red Party have already given subsidiary support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6372	Alternatively, between the recommendation from the Committee to A, in the first paragraph of Section 106c of the new Article 106c and proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Foreign Affairs Act shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 106(c) first paragraph is replaced by the following: A minor foreigner can only be apprehended if specifically required and can only be internalised in accordance with point (b) of the first paragraph of Section 106 if it is absolutely essential as a last resort to carry out the broadcast. Otherwise, a minor non-resident may only be interned if it is absolutely essential as a last resort to achieve the purpose of the provision providing the basis for the detention. However, a minor non-resident may not be interned in accordance with point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 106.’. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6393	President! I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6398	I have also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6403	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6415	Alternatively, between the recommendation from the Committee to A, in the third paragraph of Section 106c, and proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 15 May 2008 No 35 on the admission of non-residents to the Kingdom and their residence here is amended as follows: The third paragraph of Section 106(c) is replaced by the following: A minor alien being apprehended shall normally not be held for more than 24 hours. If the police want to maintain an apprehended minor foreigner, it must be prepared as soon as possible and not later than the day following the attack. If the period ends on a public holiday or on a day assimilated by legislation to a public holiday, the period shall be extended by one day.’;» The Right Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6439	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Foreign Affairs Act shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 106(c) sixth paragraph is replaced by the following: A minor foreigner who is apprehended or interned may not be kept for more than 24 hours from the date of the attack unless there is a disease or new circumstances in the case that make the forced return impossible within 24 hours. In any case, the duration of the minor may not exceed 72 hours’.» The Left, the Greens and the Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6460	The recommendation of the Committee of A, in the sixth paragraph of Section 106c, is contested. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6474	Proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 15 May 2008 No 35 on the admission of non-residents to the Kingdom and their residence here is amended as follows: Paragraph 106(c) sixth paragraph is added as follows: A minor non-resident may be interned for up to 3 days at a time. [[72 hours]] The total retention period shall not exceed 3 days, unless there are specific and strong reasons. For particular reasons, the primary aim is to ensure that the family or the child itself has a substantial part of the responsibility for the non-implementation of the shipment within 3 days of the notice of detention or that a close-on-time time has been clarified. In cases where there is an exceptional basis for incarceration beyond 3 days, the total period of incarceration shall not exceed 9 days.’;» The Right Party and the Progress Party have already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6497	It's going to be over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6507	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6517	The law decision will be passed until a second time in a future meeting of the Stortinge. It was also recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6555	Furthermore, it was set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6563	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6579	A total of nine proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-4, by Arild Grande on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 5 and 6, by Arild Grande on behalf of the Labour Party proposal No 7, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary changes to the rules and to propose the necessary appropriations to strengthen employment services as a public task.’ The Labour Party and the Red Party have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6614	Proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government of the notified proposal for proposals for amendments to the Working Environment Act on permanent employment, temporary employment and hiring of temporary staff to consider proposing amendments to the Working Environment Act that ensure: - a clear definition of fixed employment, which gives predictability of work and income. Fixed employment means that employment is continuous and unlimited and that the rules of the law on termination of employment apply. It is underlined that the form of the contract ‘fixed employment without pay between assignments’ does not meet the statutory requirements for permanent employment. - an obligation on the part of the employer to provide predictability of work and income through a work plan and to prevent contracts in which employees are permanently employed, with the consequence that they must remain at their disposal all the time and nevertheless not be guaranteed more than a part-time job. - it is necessary to prevent circumvention of obligations arising from the contract of employment through the use of average calculations in addition to those provided for in Sections 10 to 5 of the Working Environment Act. - specify that the employer is obliged to pay when the employee is required to be at the disposal of the contract. Part-time staff in the agency may follow the working hours of the lessee. During the period without a contract, wages and salaries are paid according to the agreed rate of employment. - that access to rental is restricted in such a way that only establishments bound by a national collective bargaining agreement with a trade union with a right of suspension may enter into a written agreement on fixed-term rental and that, upon request by the Labour Inspectorate, the establishment and the manning undertaking shall provide evidence that the activity is bound by a collective agreement with the trade union with the right of cancellation and that the agreement has been concluded with the elected representatives. - that the Labour Inspectorate is authorised to supervise the use of hire and hire of labour, and is provided with sanctions by means of illegal rental and rental. The proposals are requested at a time which allows the Storting to take decisions by the summer of 2018.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6651	Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose an amendment to the Working Environment Act so that agreements with trustees on fixed-term rentals and deviations from the general working time provisions of the Working Environment Act can only be concluded where it is provided for in a nationwide agreement.» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6668	Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the Working Environment Act defining what permanent employment should include. Minimum requirements must be a specified percentage of the employment with a work plan which also provides for a predictable weekly/monthly working period, and these working conditions must be reflected in the contract of employment and thus constitute the basis for the obligation of pay and employment.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6685	Proposal No. 1-3, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a ban on labour hiring limited to either the geographically most vulnerable areas or limited to the most vulnerable industries. As an immediate measure, the Stortinget Government is asking for a ban on labour hiring from non-production establishments on construction sites, in the provinces of Oslo, Akershus, Østfold, Buskerud and Vestfold, cf. [[5]] § 14-12 of the Environmental Protection Act by 1 July 2018.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that illegal labour hiring entails more severe penalties in the form of infringement fees and, where appropriate, quarantine provisions against rental and rental in the event of repeated infringements. The Labour Inspectorate shall be entrusted with the task of supervising illegal rentals.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the reintroduction of collective actions against the illegal hiring of labour and to extend the right to hire workers.’ The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6715	Proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government of the notified proposal for proposals for amendments to the Working Environment Act on permanent employment, temporary employment and hiring of temporary staff to consider proposing amendments to ensure that: – a clear definition of fixed-term employment, the firmness of employment means that employment is ongoing and unlimited, and that the rules of the Act on the cessation of employment apply, as well as stressing that fixed-term employment without pay between jobs does not meet the statutory requirements for permanent employment. – an obligation on the part of the employer to provide predictability of work and income through a work plan and to prevent contracts in which employees are permanently employed, with the consequence that they must remain at their disposal all the time and nevertheless not be guaranteed more than a part-time job. – that access to rental is restricted in such a way that only establishments bound by a national collective bargaining agreement with a trade union with a right to set off may enter into a written agreement on fixed-term lease payments and that the establishment and the crew member undertaking shall, upon request of the Labour Inspectorate, provide evidence that the activity is bound by a collective agreement with a trade union with a right to set-aside and that an agreement has been concluded with the trustees. – that the Labour Inspectorate is authorised to supervise the rental and sanctioning of illegal rentals. The proposals must be promoted at a time which allows the Storting to take decisions by the summer of 2018.’» The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6748	Proposal No. 8, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government of the notified proposal for proposals for amendments to the Working Environment Act on permanent employment, temporary employment and hiring of temporary staff to promote legislative proposals to ensure that: - permanent employment is defined in the Act as permanent and unlimited, with the provisions of the Act on the protection of employees against dismissal, as well as the predictability of a real scope of employment, as set out in the Act. new § 14-9(f) [[1]] - General access to the use of rentals from manning undertakings pursuant to Sections 14 to 12 is restricted to vicariates, cf. [[1]] § 14-9(b) [[1]] - Extended access to the use of rentals from recruitment agencies pursuant to Sections 14 to 12 is restricted to agreements with trade union which have the right to cancel [[2]] - the form of employment "fixed employment without pay between jobs" for temporary work undertakings is illegal, see new § 14-12 [[7]] The Labour Party, the Greens/Reds Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6807	It's getting wet over II. Right, the Progress Party and the Left are behind the recommendation. The Christian People's Party has every support for the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6823	It's going to be wet over I and III. Right, the Progress Party and the Left are behind the recommendation. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote for the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6844	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arild Grande on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 17 June 2005 No. 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. is amended as follows: Paragraph 14-9, first paragraph, second sentence, point (f) is deleted. II The law shall enter into force immediately.’;» The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e6879	Proposal No. 2, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] are changed as follows: I Paragraphs 14 to 9 are replaced by the following: § 14-9. Permanent and temporary staff shall be employed permanently. [[1]] For the purposes of this Act, fixed employment means that employment is continuous and unlimited, that the rules of the Act on termination of employment apply and that the worker is guaranteed predictability of work in the form of a real scope of employment. [[2]] However, temporary contracts may be concluded: (a) where the work is of a temporary nature; b) for work instead of another or another [[viariat]] (c) for practical work; (d) with participants in labour market measures under the auspices of, or in cooperation with, the State of employment and welfare; or (e) with sportsmen, athletes, judges and other leaders of organised sport. The employer shall, at least once a year, discuss the use of temporary employment in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph with the trustees, including the basis and extent of such employment, as well as the impact on the working environment. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on temporary employment for practical work and on the types of labour market measures covered by point (d) of the second subparagraph. [[3]] [[4]] National employee organisation may conclude a collective agreement with an employer or an employer association on access to temporary employment within a specified employee group to perform artistic, research or sports work. If the collective bargaining agreement is binding on a majority of employees within a specified working group in the establishment, the employer may, under the same conditions, enter into a temporary contract with other employees who are required to carry out similar work. [[5]] Employees who have been employed for more than one year are entitled to written notice of the date of resignation not later than one month before the date of retirement. This does not, however, apply to participants in labour market measures covered by the third subparagraph, as set out in the third subparagraph. the second subparagraph, point (d). The warning shall be deemed to have been given when the worker has been reached. In the event of failure to comply with the deadline, the employer may not require the worker to leave within one month of the notification. [[6]] Temporary employment contracts shall cease at the end of the agreed period or at the end of the specific work, unless otherwise agreed in writing or provided for in the collective bargaining agreement. During the contractual period, the rules of the law on termination of employment apply. [[7]] Employees who have been in continuous temporary employment for more than four years after point (a) of the second subparagraph or for more than three years after point (b) of the second subparagraph shall be deemed to be permanently employed in such a way that the rules on termination of employment apply. For the purposes of calculating the working time after the first sentence, no deduction shall be made from the absence of the employee. § 10-5, first paragraph, last sentence is deleted. § 14-11, first paragraph, third sentence is deleted. Paragraphs 14 to 12 are replaced by the following: Paragraphs 14-12. Renting from activities for the purpose of renting Renting of workers from activities for the purpose of renting is permitted to the extent that temporary employment can be agreed under point (b) of the second paragraph of Section 14-9. [[(employee) (1)]] [[2]] In activities linked to a collective agreement with a trade union with a right of suspension, the employer and the trustees representing together a majority of the category of employees to which the lease-in relates may enter into a written agreement on fixed-term rental without prejudice to what is provided for in the first subparagraph. The establishment and the manning undertaking shall, at the request of the Labour Inspectorate, provide evidence that the activity is bound by a collective bargaining agreement with a right of suspension and that the trustees referred to in the first sentence have been agreed upon. [[3]] Only permanent employees in 100 pst. employment in a manning undertaking is entitled to the average calculation of working time on an independent basis, as set out in: Paragraphs 10 to 5. Part-time employees of temporary staff may follow the working time arrangements of the lessee enterprise Employer must at least once per year. years discuss the use of contracted labour after the first and second paragraphs, including the practice of the requirement of non-discrimination, with those elected to trust. [[4]] [[5]] In the case of rentals under this paragraph, the rules in the seventh paragraph of Sections 14 to 9 apply mutatis mutandis. [[6]] The Ministry may, by regulation, prohibit the hiring-in of certain categories of workers or in certain areas where important social considerations so warrant. [[7]] Professional association having members of an establishment which has hired workers from temporary staff undertakings may bring proceedings in its own name on the legality of such hiring. In connection with such a case, both parties will have the right to require negotiations in line with the rules of Section 17-3. the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 18-6 is replaced by the following: The Labour Inspectorate imposes and otherwise takes the individual decisions necessary for the implementation of the provisions of Sections 1 to 7, Chapter 2 of Chapter 11 and Sections 14 to 1 (a), 14 to 5 (a), 14 to 5 (a), 14 to 9 (b), the second paragraph of the last sentence, 14 to 12 (a), 14 to 12 (a), 14 to 15 (f) and 14 to 15 (f) respectively. II The amendments shall apply from 1 July 2018.’» The Greens have already given their support to the proposal. The working party has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e7025	The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e7042	Right, the Progress Party and the Left are behind the recommendation, and the Christian People's Party supports the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e7058	Case No. 11–17 is the second time the law is handled and the law is applicable until 35. There are no comments suggested. Thus, the Bill of the Storting has been accepted for the second time and has been sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-15.ana.ud361e7161	This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
