ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e74	Honourable co-representatives. On 19 October 2018, former depositor Åge Hovengen from Brandbu and Vestre Slider died in Oppland, 90 years old. He represented the Workers' Party and Uppland for four periods – only for three years from 1973 as a permanent meeting item, such as a permanent representative from 1977 to 1989. During this time he was among others. member of the Agriculture Committee, the Social Committee and the Justice Committee. The Committees reflected his commitment and heart issues: the condition of small users and the situation of those sitting at the bottom of the table in our society. Åge Hovengen grew up on Brandbu, trained as a car mechanic and a mechanic. He was an international engineer, worked at plants in Canada and operated his own car repair shop at Toten, before moving to Lomen in 1955 in West Slider and became a small user. He found out about his social involvement in the Workers' Party, and went into local politics. From he was 30 years old and got his first public position as a member of the local game subject in 1957, until he left the control committee in Vestre Slide in 1998, there is a period of 41 years. But he didn't give up on this. The exposure and concern of small crews was lifelong. He never leaned back. The many honours that were awarded to the Hovengen bear witness to who he was: the Honorary Prize of the Salvation Army The Light Tower, the King's Gold Medal of Merit and the Year's Solidarity Prize of the National Association of Righteousness for the Tapers. When he was awarded the Fritt Ord honorary prize in 2002, it was for ‘his deep and long-term commitment to small-body and people on the brink of society’. When, at the end of the 1980s, the Stortinge granted itself the Åge Hovengen thought was a generous wage increase for theirs, compared to what became at this time small users and ordinary people, he protested. The gap between what he thought he needed, and what he was paid out as a big-time representative, was the start of a fund to support small users in legal disputes. ‘Found hass Åge’, as it is called in Norwegian Farmers’ and Small Farmers’ Teams, still exists. It has helped a number of small users and has helped to ensure that three soils have been brought before the Supreme Court. It's one of our popular-loving politicians who's now gone away. His great heart and glowing commitment to those who need politics the most, however, shall live on as inspiration for us others. We bring peace to Åge Hovengen's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e112	The representative Liv Signe Navarsette, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The so-called representative of the South Trondelag, Kristian Torve, is now taking the seat. From Højres Storingsgruppe there is a notice that the permits granted to representatives Stefan Heggelund, Liv Kari Eskeland and Renate Silver in the 10th-14th century. from 10 December to 13 December. of December. – This message is taken into account. Three permit applications are available: by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative of Hanne Dyveke Süttar from 13 December until further notice on Thursday 13 December from the representative of the European Parliament, Mr Moxnes, by the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of the representative Jette F. Christensen on 14 and 15 December On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the province of Hordaland: Linda Monsen Merkesdal For Nordland County: Grethe Andersen For Oslo: Seher Aydar
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e184	Seher Aydar is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that today's meeting is over. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e201	Each generation faces unique challenges, to which the solutions of the past do not extend. For our generation, one of these migrations, which is one of the global megatrends of our time, is a challenge that, in addition to national policies, also needs to be addressed through good cooperation between states, as the nation state in many situations will be short. Safe, orderly and regular migration should be a common goal – just as we must work together against trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings, uncontrolled and irregular immigration and violations of human rights. This is no contrast to controlling its own territory and who gets access to it. Of course, that is the natural need and right of every country. However, national control alone will not address the migration challenges. We need new tools and new ways of working together. Norway is a country that also serves our national interests by helping to find common solutions to common challenges and new responses to new problems. The size has discussed several times in recent years how we can meet the migration challenges, nationally and internationally. In both the last year and the year’s budget statement by the Ministry of Justice and Security, the central positions on which the government will base this work, including the government’s efforts to preserve the existing space for action, but also to ensure that other countries comply with existing commitments. As I stated in my foreign policy statement to the Stortinget earlier this year, Norway has actively participated in the UN negotiations in Geneva and New York leading to a global platform for migration – the United Nations Migration Platform. In this work, we have used the principles that we have previously explained to the Storting. This platform is one of several important tools that can help improve cooperation on migration, and we believe that cooperation is absolutely necessary. Only in that way can we find good solutions. Which the parties in Stortinget were concerned about in the context of the migration crisis in 2015/2016: More international cooperation was necessary. That is what we contribute through the connection to the global migration platform. The International Organization for Migration, IOM, estimates that there are 258 million international migrants in the world today. The vast majority of these have travelled legally, have a residence permit and do not create challenges for the host countries. Migrants are a complex category. It could be migrant workers or international students. Nordics who work a few years abroad and Norwegian citizens who have chosen to spend their retirement life in Spain or Thailand are also included here. We don't want them to be hindered. Norway’s position is that Norwegian legislation and related schemes work well, and that the global platform does not provide a basis for amending Norwegian legislation. We therefore believe that the objective of improving the accessibility and flexibility of regular migration cannot be interpreted as an obligation to extend Norwegian legislation or practice on labour migration, educational opportunities and family immigration, as Norwegian law already complies with international law. International migrants often face challenges. Many migrant workers from the Philippines, Bangladesh and Nepal report cheating on contracts and crime at work in the host countries. Some people in the Middle East are deprived of their identity documents and are forced to work without contracts that regulate working hours and wages. Migrant workers are often subjected to human rights violations. Originating countries want solutions to this by means of international normative and practical cooperation. In Europe, migration challenges are highlighted, especially in the case of increased arrivals across the Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea. Most migrants arriving in Europe through this route cross borders without authorisation, usually by means of human traffickers. Many live in Europe without a legal residence permit. Irregular migration is a major and growing problem globally, but also for Norway. That's something we want solutions to. Both the country of origin and the country of destination of migrants need to improve migration management. We share the interest that human rights are being respected, that no one is being subjected to slavery, that children's and women's rights are being respected, and that workers' rights are being respected. We have a common interest that migrants do not die in the desert or drown in the sea on a dangerous journey towards Europe. The UN migration platform is the result of a long process that ends in New York next week. On Monday and Tuesday this week, a conference was held in Morocco, where a large majority of the United Nations Member States were present and agreed. It is true, as many have pointed out, that a smaller number of countries have chosen not to cooperate. The United States has not participated in the negotiations, and Hungary withdrew after the last round of negotiations in July. Australia, Chile and Israel and the EU countries Hungary, Austria, Poland, Bulgaria, Latvia, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have opted not to participate. Switzerland and Italy await political decision. The government has been divided into a view on whether Norway should subscribe to the final text of the United Nations Migration Platform. The Progress Party has argued over the past few weeks why they do not want Norwegian membership. The right and left, on their side, believe that the platform provides a common basis for the political effort to better manage migration, so that we can get irregular migration under control. When Norway joins the platform, there is an overall government that is concerned that it is used to promote Norwegian interests, such as rapid return and cooperation. Today, I want to explain why the Right and Left believe this platform is important for Norway and how Norwegian policies and positions have been expressed in the final platform. In 2015, Europe experienced a migration crisis. Over one million refugees and migrants crossed the Mediterranean. Aside from the Syrian refugees, many did not have a need for protection. They were migrants who sought a better future in Europe, they did not have a residence permit and were often without identity papers. Nor was Norway untouched. At the time, we recorded a sharp increase in asylum arrivals, and the situation in Storskog was very challenging for a few months. This was seen as a warning about what might come in a not so distant future. This provided the basis for many beneficiary countries also to recognise the need for better cooperation with countries of origin in order to meet the challenges of irregular migration. Since the design of a global migration platform began, the number of irregular Mediterranean arrivals has been reduced by 95 pst. This is due to a coordinated European effort to control migration flows. Norway has contributed to this effort. However, although the situation is less acute, we must not forget that the arrivals are still large and that the pressure for migration towards Europe will rise again. The population of Africa is growing rapidly and will double by 2050. Many regions in the world have a very young population, and in some places the majority of the population is under 30 years of age. Young people will seek work and prospects, including through migration. At the same time, according to the World Bank, climate change could cause 140 million people to move forward towards 2050. Most will remain internally displaced or migrate to countries in their own neighbourhood, but many will also be able to apply to Europe. So this is in addition to refugee flows as a result of war, conflict and persecution, which we also have to expect in the future. It is in the interests of Norway and all European countries to support a global political understanding of migration. Work on setting up a common global cooperation model to address migration challenges started in 2015. 193 countries joined the New York Declaration, which called for the negotiation of a migration platform between countries, and a refugee platform to be developed within the UN system. Then, for many years, it would have been almost impossible to get a common understanding of the United Nations in this area. Contrasts of interest between the country of origin and the country of destination were seen to be almost insurmountable. Norway had an active role in the negotiations. Because 27 EU countries – minus Hungary – negotiated with one voice and the United States did not participate, few other countries took the floor and Norway became a clear European voice. Norway highlighted defensive positions, such as the requirement of acceptance for countries to define their own immigration policy, a clear distinction between regular and irregular migration, the importance of cooperation on the return to the country of origin of persons without legal residence, the fact that detention of foreign citizens may be a necessary tool for the enforcement of immigration policy, freedom of the press and the refusal to extend access to the performance of welfare benefits. Norway also highlighted offensive positions, such as the need for human rights to form the basis of the platform, the need for the ILO agenda for decent work and other binding ILO conventions to be at the heart of labour migration, the recognition of the specific situation of climate or natural disaster displaced persons, the recognition of the needs of vulnerable migrants, and the application of the principle of non-refoulement. The United Nations Migration Platform is not an international agreement, convention or treaty and is not legally binding. It does not have legal implications for Norwegian immigration policy or other rules determined by corruption and government. The platform will be an important policy reference document, but it is up to each country to follow up at national level. Nor will the platform itself establish the customary law of international law. A platform is called because it is primarily a foundation and starting point for future cooperation in areas affecting migration. It is in our interest to gain control of irregular migration. We need to ensure that migration takes place under proper conditions and complies with national laws and regulations, not just migration to Norway, but migration globally. The platform contains 23 policy objectives, with sub-points in the form of non-binding proposals. Five of them deal with measures to combat irregular migration, including uncontrolled and irregular immigration. These include measures to combat trafficking in human beings, measures to combat trafficking in human beings, strengthened border control and measures to address the root causes of irregular migration. These are examples of areas where Norway fulfils international obligations, where other countries do not comply with its obligations and thus contribute to a weaker inter-country migration management. It has been important for Norway and other European countries to explicitly mention these areas. For us, it was a very central requirement for the platform to establish the duty of states to cooperate in the repatriation of their own citizens. There is a problem that several countries of origin continue to refuse to assist in the return of persons without a need for protection who oppose their return. Some states refuse to allow them into their own country when escorted to the border of the Norwegian police, on the grounds that the return is not voluntary. The platform accepts that countries sometimes need coercive measures to control migration. On the Norwegian side, it is assumed that the detention of migrants, including minors, may be necessary in some cases, but as a last resort and for the shortest possible period of time. When countries refuse to issue travel documents and refuse to cooperate in repatriation of their own citizens who lack a residence permit in another country, they, in their Norwegian opinion, breach their obligations under international law. It has to be clear. At the same time, we experience that such situations are difficult to deal with through purely bilateral cooperation. It helps us to cooperate with the EU, but we will be served with a broader global understanding and acceptance of the problem. The platform has its own goal of return cooperation, which greatly strengthens our work bilaterally for more efficient return arrangements, and it strengthens global efforts in this area. For the government, it has been absolutely crucial during the negotiations that the platform sows no doubt whatsoever that each state itself determines who will gain access to its territory, for how long and under what conditions. This principle of sovereignty has been asserted with strength in the negotiations, together with the EU and other recipient countries. In addition, it was essential for us that the platform, although not legally binding, is in line with the current Norwegian policy on foreign and immigration. The platform is based on universal human rights. They also apply to migrants. This is an important reminder this year, when we mark the 70th anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration of Human Rights. There are rights that Norway is living up to, and that we are working to promote and secure internationally. The platform does not establish any new legal categories and no human right to migrate. It is therefore a matter of both justice policy, foreign policy and development policy instruments. When we contribute to improving living conditions, meeting the UN's sustainability objectives and promoting human rights in the countries of origin and transit, we support a development that provides alternatives to irregular migration. The final text is within the objectives negotiated by Norway. Our main requirements are met. At the same time, there is no doubt that this is a compromise to safeguard the interests of many countries. Then it is not to avoid ending up with formulations that we would have formulated differently from the Norwegian side. That's how the UN works. Multilateral cooperation is about taking small steps in the right direction. To create cooperation, a common understanding of what the problems are and what to work together on must be established. One example, which has also received attention in Norwegian media, is the formulation of the platform on media reporting on migration. This also reacted to Norway in the negotiations. Getting the sentence out of the text wasn't allowed to do. Therefore, Norway was among the countries that demanded full freedom of the press in the negotiations. It's obvious that the media covers all sides of migration, including the negatives. Freedom of expression and free media are fundamental to democracy. At the closing meeting in Morocco on 10 and 11 December, we made a statement explaining the interpretation Norway will use on the basis of crucial points. We will follow this up with an explanation of vote during the vote itself at the UN General Assembly on 19 December. This is a very general procedure to ensure that there is no responsibility for interpretation other than that on which it is based. In the explanation of vote, I would like briefly to highlight eight points: that the migration platform is not legally binding and will not, in itself, form the basis for the practice of international law countries have a sovereign right to regulate their own immigration; that all migrants have certain fundamental human rights, but that the platform does not establish any new legal categories or human rights to migrate; the objective of improving the availability and flexibility of regular migration cannot be understood as an obligation for further liberalisation; the detention of foreign nationals may be necessary in some cases, including in the case of minors, but as a last resort and for the shortest possible period of time; Norway assumes that under international law all countries are obliged to take back their own nationals, whether they return voluntarily or not. the migration platform cannot be understood as requiring a revision of the access to export Norwegian welfare services; that the migration platform recognises the importance of free press and that there is no restriction on free and evidence-based reporting on migration in the platform; Some countries have feared losing control of their own immigration policies. National sovereignty across our borders is, of course, crucial for Norway as well. We ourselves need to define our immigration policy. It is we who decide who gets access to Norway, for what purpose and for how long. We have studied the UN migration platform thoroughly. There is nothing in this platform that weakens our national sovereignty. There is no legal obligation in this platform that obliges us to liberalise our immigration policy. There are no legal obligations in this platform to amend Norwegian legislation. I believe that those countries that stand outside help to the opposite of ensuring control. By being outside, they weaken this important framework for international cooperation in the field of migration. Less cooperation offers fewer opportunities for finding good solutions. This is also the conclusion reached by all Nordic countries, as well as by key European partners such as the United Kingdom, Germany and France. That is why I hope that as many countries as possible participate in the cooperation to which the United Nations Migration Platform puts forward, and that those who have stood outside will eventually see and be convinced that cooperation has a value. In the Norwegian debate, some have responded to the UN platform mentioning migration as positive and as a contribution to development. Again, this is not about a legal obligation to liberalise Norwegian immigration policy, but that regular migration can often be a good thing. For example, there is an enrichment for Norwegian students to study a few years abroad, and the students are an enrichment for Norway when they come back. That we can pick up skilled labour from other countries when we need it is positive for Norway. It is a good thing for migrant workers that they can find work and earn money in other countries. Sending money to the family at home contributes to the development of the countries of origin. Safe, orderly and regular migration is a good thing, and it is a contribution to development, to individuals and to society. That's what we're going to promote. What we want to combat is trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings, uncontrolled and irregular immigration and violations of human rights. Responsible regional and global cooperation is essential to address this challenge. We can't do it without international cooperation. Therefore, Norway is joining the United Nations migration platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e323	The President will now propose, under point (a) of the second paragraph of Section 45 of Storting’s Rules of Procedure, the opening of a short comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a final statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The representative, Mr Wold, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e330	I would like, on behalf of myself, as the minority in the presidency on the subject of the desired form of debate after the Foreign Minister's statement, and on behalf of the Group of the Progressive Alliance, to make a proposal that the statement is dealt with in accordance with paragraph 45(b) of the first paragraph of the Rules of Procedure of the United Kingdom – i.e. that the matter is referred to a later meeting, which may take place either tomorrow or Saturday. The reason for this is that it will open up debate to propose voting, not just a five-minute round without the possibility of a proposal, as it is now set up. The Progress Party believes that such an important issue as the United Nations Migration Platform should result in a full round of debate with the possibility of proposals in Stortinget – therefore this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e337	The representative, Morten Wold, has then proposed that the statement be dealt with in accordance with point (b) of the first paragraph of Section 45 of the Rules of Procedure and discussed at a later meeting. The President will open up a debate on the procedure in which one representative of each party is given the floor, if desired. The representative of Trond Helleland has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e346	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. As far as the procedure is concerned, I think that the presidency has put up a wise procedure, that is. 5 minutes for each batch. In addition to that, the foreign policy budgetary procedure will take place immediately afterwards, in the next case, and I note that the Progress Party there has tabled a proposal. I believe that the natural thing now is that we have a round of 5 minutes for each party, and then we go over to the budget debate. Then it's full opportunity for everyone to discuss this and other good and exciting themes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e351	Several have not asked for the word to be given to the procedure for case No. 1st@item: inlistbox After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e358	We are ready to go to voting on the procedure for the presentation. Alternatively, between the President’s proposal that the statement be dealt with under point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 45 of the Rules of Procedure and the proposal made by the representative Morten Wold that the statement be dealt with under point (b) of the first paragraph of Section 45 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e372	The President will then propose, pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 45 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final statements by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e379	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation. The Labour Party is a fundamental partner of international cooperation to address international challenges and problems. It also applies to migration. For example, individual countries alone may: not combat cynical human traffickers or death routes across the Mediterranean. That is why we need effective international cooperation. But I cannot, today from the Workers' Party, issue any re-approval that the government on behalf of Norway has now supported the UN's new migration platform last Monday. This case is on the government's table. According to our constitution and our state custom, responsibility for the current foreign policy is assigned to the government. Binding agreements shall be approved by the Storting; non-binding declarations shall be made by the Government which shall take a decision at all times. Therefore, the Government of the United Kingdom does not instruct the Norwegian Government on how to vote on the resolutions of the UN General Assembly, and therefore the Government cannot come to the Grand Duchy after a decision has been taken to ask for parliamentary blessing or forgiveness. In the meeting with international migration, some principles need to be established. Norwegian immigration policy is the responsibility of the Norwegian authorities. We must govern and regulate it ourselves. We have to control ourselves at our own borders. Although it is not our task here in Stortinget to decide on this migration platform, it is obvious that it has both advantages and disadvantages. The text is not legally binding, but it is useful wording here to country, for example. must issue ID documents and take responsibility for their own citizens. On the other hand, the formulations are also scouring, for example. the export of social security benefits and the training of media by countries. All of this we could have had a thorough dialogue on while the UN negotiations were still ongoing, whether the government was actually responsible for itself and made sure to consult and anchor Norway's position. Ten years ago, a comparable non-binding UN declaration, the Durban II Conference on Racism, was negotiated. The Foreign Minister at the time met twice in Stortinget to consult and anchor. But this government has unfortunately not done a good enough job. It is paradoxical that we have this debate today, three days after the platform has been adopted. Then the Foreign Minister would like to claim that it is going up to the United Nations Main Assembly on 19 December, but it's just a sandstorm. The platform was adopted on Monday, the text was finalised in July. Erna Solberg and Sylvi Listhaug started the process towards this platform when they attended the UN Summit on Migration in the autumn of 2016. A total of seven different versions of the platform were published between February and June. But the government only comes to Stortinget three days after the platform has been adopted and six months after the end of the negotiations. I noticed that in response to the Storting, the Foreign Minister made a point that she had briefed on the platform in her foreign policy statement in winter, but the statement contained no more than three sentences on the migration platform – and one of the sentences conveyed actual misinformation, namely that what the UN is now working on is a global platform for refugees and migrants. That's wrong. This UN process clearly distinguishes between refugees and migrants. And it's not just a peek, it's essential that we have the power to distinguish between migration and refugee policy. It is obvious that in the public debate on the migration platform, there has been factual and complete disagreement, but the public debate has also included misunderstandings, distortions and exaggerations. This government must take a great deal of responsibility for it. It has not been able to consult the Stortinget, it has not been able to inform and inform the public discussion. We have higher expectations for the management of the country's foreign policy than the government parties have shown in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e399	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister on behalf of our group for the statement on what Norway has contributed to the work on this migration platform. It is important for a further debate on these issues to be aware of the status of this document, and whether it in some way gives Norway new obligations in addition to those that we ourselves voluntarily assume or have undertaken. Although the document itself states that it is not legally binding, it is also essential that Norway has had a clear voice and clearly states whether the parts of the migration platform we are not going to follow up. It is important to say this, although it is also emphasised that we are not faced with a treaty or other legally binding agreement. The platform is a political declaration on how countries view the problems posed by unregulated migration and what action may be needed to address them. In the course of the work, it has been recognised that there is a contradiction of interest between the country of origin of migrants and the countries that consider receiving migration, i.e. the immigrants. The basic principles of inter-country cooperation are enshrined in international law, and that is what norms govern relations between countries. It's these rules, as we know, that would take precedence if someone wanted to use the platform for something else and something more than what we want to commit ourselves to in Norway. These reservations are essential for further work so that they can be made on a clear and realistic basis. Norway, during its intervention in Morocco, has submitted its reservations after having referred to ambiguities in the text. Such reservations mean that we are not bound by the text, nor by the politically embossed text, beyond the understanding we itself put into the document. With this approach, we are in line with Denmark’s clarifications, which have been made and presented on behalf of a number of EU Member States. These countries have underlined the non-legislative nature of the declaration. Nor shall it be possible to use the text as a basis for later claims that a customary right has been established. The ambiguity in the text has made it necessary for Norway, together with other countries, those closest to us, once again to stress that as sovereign states, we decide which migration policies are to be pursued within their own jurisdiction. That's the core of what it means to be a sovereign state. It should not follow new obligations than those to which we have already joined through the international law we already recognise. International law is based on the exclusive territorial control and enforcement of states. It is the right of Norway and other sovereign States to draw the border between legal and illegal migration and also to lay down conditions for entry accepted as lawful. It is also clarified that no new international obligations fall in Norway or the extension of old ones. This means that no one can assume any extension of what is now considered to be legal migration to Norway, whether the justification is work, education or family reunification. Norway already complies with international standards. In order to enforce Norwegian provisions relating to the dispatch of persons not found in the law on asylum and refugees, the government has reserved the possibility of using the coercive measures necessary for a proportional but at the same time effective enforcement of Norwegian law. It also involves in some cases detention and arrest. We are also pleased with what was said by Norway about freedom of the press and freedom of expression. It is as we know it is protected by fundamental law, but it also enjoys international treaty protection through the European Convention on Human Rights, and it is not at all negotiable. Going into content management of the press and the media, or, for that matter, awareness campaigns to influence opinion to be positive about migration, is unacceptable. In democracies, it is the public opinion that ultimately determines what the government thinks, not the other way around. I believe the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken good care of Norwegian positions. Norway will continue to develop its migration policy based on Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e424	First, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. It is important when one thing causes so much unrest in the population and so much debate, that one takes an open round on it, and takes the people's concerns seriously. What is alarming, on the other hand, is that parties such as the Central Party and the Workers' Party, who themselves have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs to come and explain the matter, have now got what they want, and then suddenly they seem to be unjust and try to put a lid on the debate by not allowing a free, open debate that could have been illuminating for the matter. That's what I think is alarming. Then it is not correct as it was said from the Workers' Party, that the matter is settled. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, it is going to vote in the United Nations on 19 December. If Stortinget now chooses to oppose Norwegian accession, there will be no Norwegian accession. But if you want to have that matter clarified, you must not say no to a debate. It's alarming. When we talk about this platform, all the other parties just have a big need to talk about what not to do. It is said that international cooperation is important. Yes, of course, international cooperation is important. That is also the view of the Progress Party. But when you have so much need to distance yourself from the content of the agreement, you only have to vote in favour of an agreement because it is an international platform, not because it is a good international platform. That must be the basic argument for signing such an agreement – that the agreement is good. I still have the pleasure of hearing other parties make the good arguments in this agreement that will actually make a difference. A few aspects of the agreement have been highlighted that may be good, such as: It's the one with the return. But it is today that the countries we want to change their policies, which are designed to change their practices, are already required by international law. They're blowing it. How, then, do you think that signing an non-binding agreement is going to change the practice of these countries? It's not going to happen. On the other hand, it is always Norway and other European Western democracies that are the best in the class to fulfil the intentions of these agreements. Then we are left with a situation where there is considerable pressure for Norway to change its policy, while those who blow into their commitments already today will continue to blow into their commitments. There are many formulations in this agreement that are not only problematic but go directly against Norwegian immigration policy. I also agree that we should retain Norwegian autonomy in this agreement. There is no autonomy we are going on here, but we are equally committed to changing Norwegian policy – 29 times in the document it says that we commit ourselves to yours, and we commit ourselves to that. If you sign a commitment to change Norwegian policies, you should not be surprised if Norwegian policies are changed. Several problematic areas have already been mentioned. It is suggested that legislation should be reviewed in order to ease family immigration requirements. We need stricter requirements for family immigration, not liberalisation. It says getting easier access to rights, it says getting more roads to legal migration. We also agree to combat illegal migration, but this agreement is designed to combat illegal migration by legalising it. It is strongly opposed to the Advancement Party. And then there's a point that's very problematic, about how the state should go in and control the media, teach journalists in good ethics about immigration issues. It's against the freedom of the press, the Editors' Association has been out with it, everyone thinks it's problematic. So you just say that you're not required to do it. However, Norway’s signature is attached to something that is very regrettable and problematic. How will Norway be able to influence nations like Iran and Saudi Arabia that do not have freedom of the press, which use these methods to change their policies, when we have said that this is a good tool to use? I am surprised if this does not become a major debate, and if you join this agreement without highlighting it better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e445	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation. I have to say, however, that I am very surprised that the government is coming to Stortinget to explain this now, several days after the government has already approved the agreement on behalf of Norway in a meeting in Marrakech. The design of this agreement has always been the responsibility of the government, ever since Prime Minister Solberg and Minister for Immigration and Integration Sylvi Listhaug of the Progress Party participated in the negotiation process more than two years ago. It is now six months since the negotiations on the platform were concluded, and the government has not found it timely in the negotiations to provide information on the content of Norwegian negotiating positions at all. The government has not submitted a case to Stortinget, and we as a wholesaler have no basis for deciding on the platform. We have not come to know the assessments that the government has made in the course of the negotiations, what negotiating positions you have had, what strategic choices you have made, what content you have put in the negotiations, and so there has been no discussion in the Stortingen about it. The oral orientation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs today does not change that question. I think the question that many people are asking is whether the platform may involve new political commitments for Norway and for other countries. Let it be clear that the Central Party wants us to maintain national sovereignty over all aspects of Norwegian immigration policy, and we take it for granted that the government has provided it in the negotiations on the agreement. I have to record that I have rarely heard a Right-wing politician use the words of national sovereignty and national control as often as the Foreign Minister did in his speech today, but it is nice for a centre party to hear that other parties can also use those words. The point is that if this sovereignty is not retained, the government has gone beyond its powers under the Constitution. Then we are faced with a completely different matter, because it is the responsibility of the government to ensure that the distinction between an intergovernmental agreement and a supranational agreement in which we give sovereignty is maintained. Any waiver of sovereignty must be dealt with in accordance with the Constitutional Law, and if that is the case, we are in a completely different situation. The centre party has had no case to deal with about this issue, and we have no overall advice to give the government on the content of the matter. It is the government’s own responsibility how this agreement will develop and what effects it will have. It is also the government's own responsibility that it adheres to what is our national sovereignty in terms of this type of agreement. That's what also makes this case a little special, I have to say. The size does not have any decision-making basis for making any decisions or giving any advice in this case. This matter is the responsibility of the government, and it has obviously also been intended by the government, until now. What the government is doing today is bringing the government's own disagreement into the main hall because they can't handle the disagreement between themselves. It became very clear after the posts of the representative, Engen-Helgheim. I think that's an absolutely impossible situation. They do – so they bring into the main hall their own disagreement about a matter that they have planned until now is the constitutional responsibility of the government. It can only be called remarkable and completely impossible for the Storting to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e460	I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the statement, which I wish she wouldn't spend any time on. We agree with most of the things she said, including the interpretations that the government explained in its post when the platform was paved through in Marrakech. I think that there is no reason to say so much more about the content of the matter, precisely because it has already been decided, and because the Foreign Minister has well explained why it does not have anything to do in the Storting. This is just an act - a embarrassing affair, where the time of the Storting is misused to give a government party an opportunity to get out of a pinch with its own nuclear electors. We have it in foreign policy that the government can even go to war without coming to the Stortinget. But that's what they're going to bring to the Stortinget. We are not asked to give any advice. It is the government with the Progress Party that is responsible for the connection to this platform. And it's quite obvious what happened here: the party of progress has not understood how much anger this would trigger in their own, coming too late on the track, has taken something that was not a formal one. Of course, you could come to Stortinget long before the decision was taken. That would make sense, maybe. But that didn't happen, probably because the Progress Party slept an hour. So we have a government that's under stress from Resett, High Storhaug and assorted conspirator theorists on the outer right wing. It is amazing that the government is pushing itself into the Stortinge agenda just to get the Progress Party to repair its relationship with these environments. Here we see what kind of project the Christian People's Party and the Left have messed up in. There is a government where the peace of the house is only preserved if the outer right of the Internet is satisfied. It's just congratulations. In this case, the bourgeois government appears to be a circus with Erna Solberg as the circus director, the Progress Party as the fool and the Left as the dancing statist of the fool. This is to throw away the time of Greatness. I don't need to spend the rest of my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e469	The President would point out that the kind of characteristics of a government may not entirely fall within the scope of parliamentary change of words.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e474	I would also like to distance myself from the use of words and the article that the Lightbox held now, but let's stick to the matter. The irony is that the Progress Party will vote against this pact, which focuses largely on limiting migration as a result of distress, war and disasters. It's irony. Global challenges need to be addressed globally. The challenges of irregular migration are by definition international issues, and the refugee crisis that shook Europe a few years ago has just shown that. Alone, nothing but barbed wire, uncertainty and Alan Kurdi, the three-year-old boy we all remember, who was found dead on the beach in Turkey in 2015. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that someone should oppose finding international solutions to migration, all the time we are absolutely sure that questions cannot be solved by individual countries alone. Europe's history is full of examples of disasters that accompany such isolated passages, and the highlights of our history came when we stood together in the struggle for freedom, equality and brotherhood. The Migration Pact is an attempt to establish a common understanding of migration. The signatory countries to the Charter profess some fundamental human rights and place them in the context of migration. The Pact also agrees on how countries should combat trafficking in human beings and how to ensure that as many solutions as possible are found that allow them to stay in their countries of origin and not be forced into exile. There is no open immigration pact in any way, and it does not bind Norway, or any other country, to receive more immigrants or refugees. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said that we should do our utmost to find international solutions that contribute to limiting refugee flows. She has said she will contribute to caring for the human rights of migrants, and she has stood up to those who believe that Norwegian alone is the way to go. The Foreign Minister and the U.D. deserve to thank them for not shadowing us in Norway, along with Orbán, Kaczy?ski, Trump and Kurz. Nor is it the case that this Charter will link Norway's immigration policy. That policy is what we are running, and the government parties have agreed to pursue a restrictive, legal and responsible immigration policy, which puts people at the centre and guarantees everyone, regardless of background, their fundamental human rights. That line is stuck. The aim of the policy is to find realistic solutions to such challenges, but I would also like to highlight all the benefits that migration has brought with it over time. The migration made America the world's largest and innovative economy, it made Fredrik II the Great Prussia a cultural power, and it makes cities like Rotterdam, London, Paris and Barcelona today shining examples of what we can achieve in open societies. Migration is also a personal story, and it's part of my own background. My parents came to Norway from Pakistan to create a better life for themselves and their own and to contribute to the Norwegian community. They were foreign workers at the time and lived under harsh conditions. My mother was at home and illiterate, and my father worked at a nail factory. His qualifications from Pakistan did not take him far in Norway. Nevertheless, it was his and the generation’s willingness to work that allowed them to support their families, and I and many others in Norway – tens of thousands – are just the product of this migration story. I was a young Pakistani boy who worked hard and was supported by important people in my community, the school, which gave me an education and has come where I am today. Of course, my story is not the only one. Norwegian society is full of migrants who do what they can to make a good contribution in Norway. Migration itself is not the challenge for Norway. That is the possible lack of integration. At the end of the day, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister and the government who are behind the UN migration pact and will do so in the coming week, and who is not following Orbán and Kaczy?ski down a path that only contributes to more human smuggling and more serious violations of human rights. Nationalists' dream of a closed society is an airlock. It has never existed and, fortunately, will never exist. It's our job to make sure that doesn't happen. Our society is an open society, and when we solve international challenges, we solve them together. That's the best way to go. That is why the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that it is in the interests of Norway and all European countries to support a global political understanding of migration. It is therefore strange to see that the Progress Party chooses to stand outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e493	The personal history of the representative Raja shows how important this political area is and how well it can be. This was a matter that I was uncertain about if I should take the floor, but now the representative said Engen-Helgheim – and I want to quote him – the following from Stortinget’s spokesman: ‘... then Norway’s signature puts on something that is very regrettable’. Constitutionally, it's our foreign minister who's going to do it. With this kind of saying from the Stockholm Chair of Speech, Engen-Helgheim has said that he cannot trust the Minister of Foreign Affairs, unless the Minister of Foreign Affairs is very sorry from the Stockholm Chair of Speech. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to say that we have full confidence in Minister of Foreign Affairs Eriksen Soreide, and every time she comes to keep expenses from this pulpit, there are glittering expenses. But today I have no reason to thank you for the statement, because I believe that this statement should not have occurred from this pulpit. So it's 1.5 years since the negotiations started. If one were to have recorded, one should either have had it at the start or before one had signed this agreement, as Norway formally did three days ago. As the Foreign Minister also said in his statement, this is not a treaty, it is not an agreement, it is not a convention – it is a platform. It is not binding on Norway, and then I have a problem understanding why we are going to discuss this. But I agree with the conclusion of the Foreign Minister. We live at a time when self-interests dominate more and more, in countries by country, and at such a time all progressive forces should be clear and clear that we should have more cooperation, not less. In such a perspective, there is little doubt that the United Nations migration platform is a step in the right direction. The global migration challenges are international challenges that require international solutions. The migration platform offers new opportunities for cooperation and common solutions. We all know that migration challenges cannot only be solved by closing borders, but that they must be managed internationally. One country cannot do everything alone. We need more international cooperation to prevent irregular migration, exploitation, human trafficking and trafficking. In the debate on the migration platform, there have been many points of view and perhaps not so much facts. Let me share some hard facts about what the migration platform is about. She's about: more cooperation on migration statistics more help to migrants where they are more information about migrants, so they become familiar with the dangers and with the possibilities they have more ID paper and documentation several possibilities of mobility for workers, students and academics more ethical and decent recruitment of immigrants more helpful and precautionary behaviour in the migration process more humanitarian demands to save lives and find missing migrants more cooperation against trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of vulnerable migrants more help for victims of trafficking in human beings more border control more cooperation to respect international law more rights and obligations, mutual respect and inclusion in the integration process This ends with the Christian People's Party. But as I said, I have noticed that the Progress Party has today had a use of words that did not show confidence in the sitting foreign minister. I must say that I think is special.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e555	To those representatives who have stressed that this is on the government’s table: it is absolutely correct, and nothing changes it by making a statement. We have also not come to Stortinget to ask for a subsequent approval or in other ways asked Stortinget to decide on the platform. It is also not uncommon to explain in the Stortinget on relevant issues where the Stortinget will not take a decision or a decision, but be informed about a case. I think most people have noticed that in recent times there has been an increasing temperature in the public debate. It has come later in Norway than it has done in some other countries, but just as fully is part of what emerges from that debate, both worrying and, in my opinion, not serving the debate on migration, integration or refugees. Therefore, the government needs to be able to present more comprehensively what is actually on the platform, also in order to help tell what is not on the platform, what obligations it does not impose. I believe that is important and normal in a public change of words. This was a topic in my foreign policy presentation. At the time, only one representative spoke on this issue. It was the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde, who stressed that refugee and migration issues are a global responsibility and must be addressed globally. I've been since it was for three spontaneous questions. I have been available for all Questionnaires and have not received written questions on the matter until last week. Then there were three questions from the Center Party, which we have answered, and which went primarily to the process. I'd say that, for example. the use of the extended Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to inform whether this process would not be useful, simply because it is not classified information. Therefore, we have used the opportunities that have been, to tell you that this work was underway, but that – as the representatives here have also emphasised very clearly – it is on the government's table, it is the government's prerogative and responsibility, and that is why the government has worked on the matter. It is true, as I explained in my statement, that a migration platform has been developed that has been negotiated between countries, and a separate refugee platform that has been developed internally in the UN. I referred to both. They're both jumping out of the New York Declaration, which was adopted by 193 countries. This is not a platform to sign. It will be put to the vote in the United Nations, after all, on 19 December. As everyone knows, there may sometimes be changes in the timetable, but the plan is December 19. It's not to be signed. I have nothing to complain about either. I present what is the government's policy. I notice, even though I have not asked the parties in Stortinget to either join the platform or necessarily express their views on it, that by one exception there is a broad opening up of the platform in Norway. I think it is – in the political climate we have many places in Europe now – an added value that we can express it, simply because in many countries the debate has been considerably tougher than it has been in Norway, even though it has also become tougher in recent weeks than it was, with all the consequences it has had for up to several. I think it is positive that there is an agreement that this is a sensible policy for Norway to join, with the reservations and interpretations we and many other countries have made of what is the content of the platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e572	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is going to be equal to 1. The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the United Nations Migration Platform be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 2 to 5 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e625	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e636	More than 100 years ago, Wollert Konow of Fana, who became Prime Minister just before World War I broke out, formulated a thesis on what was the core interest in Norwegian foreign policy. The words could actually have been said today: international law, a better organized world in which conflicts are resolved in dispute resolution bodies and not by the use of military power, and free world trade, because trade creates peace and prevents negative major activisation. These values were challenged before World War I. Today, too, they are challenged. Because when our most important allies change course and increasingly challenge the idea of the new world order, as it is established after World War II, with Bretton Woods, multilateral cooperation and free trade agreements, it is a challenge for us. When our main ally withdraws from the Paris Agreement and the Iran Agreement, it means that Norway must take greater responsibility with like-minded people in defence of international agreements, international organisations. And international law is challenged. When our neighbouring country changes Europe's borders and tries to do so using military power, they are supported from the far right and the far left in Europe. At home is the Vice-Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee from the government constellation that has pronounced itself along those lines. Not even Red has gone that far. Firmness vis-à-vis Russia presupposes uniformity of government parties. Solar parliamentarianism, as we also saw in full flowering here in the hall in the city, leaves an impression of winging, complacency and lack of consistency in our relationship with Russia. Wide agreement on the main lines has been a description and a norm in Norwegian foreign policy. It is not reliable when this firmness is rocked by prominent representatives of the government parties. There are no huge differences between us and the government's foreign budget. In a troubled time, we must not do like Denmark and build up our foreign service. It is about playing a role in multilateral bodies — the United Nations, the World Trade Organisation and international disarmament agencies. It is also about promoting Norwegian interests, and it is about securing a place in the UN Security Council. Peace Prize winner Denis Mukwege said earlier this week that he thinks Norway can make a difference in the work to combat rape and assault in war and conflict. An area where I believe Norway should play a more important role is in terms of women’s rights and access to prevention and abortion. Women's right to decide about their own bodies has been the theme of the discussion here at home for the past few weeks. Internationally, a reactionary wave is raging across the world, with the aim of restricting women's right to determine their own bodies. In the international media, Prime Minister Solberg’s behaviour in the abortion case has been interpreted just as part of this reactionary wave. The United States has been an important ally in the fight for women's rights in the past. But the Trump administration has cut dramatically in support of this work. Unfortunately, the right-wing government has not placed Norway in the first, second or third row of the international struggle for women’s rights. Just after Trump administration's dramatic cut, the Dutch Minister for Development gathered other donors to compensate for the United States cut. She thanked her co-organisers Belgium, Denmark and Sweden. And she thanked the first people to sign up for her support: Canada, Cape Verde, Estonia, Finland and Luxembourg. Norway was not even mentioned in the opening. When the Americans reduce their efforts, we have to escalate ours. When the provision of health services to young people and HIV-positive people in Mozambique is shut down because organisations operating the offer also offer abortion, it says a lot about how people are affected by this cut. From the Workers' Party, we want to increase the funding of prevention and safe abortions by 150 million. kr. I find it strange that the government came so late in this matter, and that in the first few years the government cut in its budgets for safe abortions and prevention, so that women can control their own bodies. We also see the same pattern in renewable energy – a large cut after 2013. Two thirds of the entire renewable energy budget was cut. So there's something increasing, but still it's below the level that was when the government went on in 2013. The most serious thing about the debate on this budget is how the government is breaking our NATO commitments. One would like to discuss the details of the understanding of NATO's 2 pst. target and the 2014 deadline. But what is at least clear is that the proportion of defence should not fall, it should not fall. There can be no doubt about it. But there's just a drop in this government adding up with the budget presented to the Storting here today. Totally fresh numbers show a clear decline from 1.66 pst. in 2018 to 1.59 pst. in 2019. It does this government knowingly and willfully. It's embarrassing. It shows that the Right can no longer be called a defence party. The Minister of Defence has not passed through his own government. From the Workers' Party we follow up the Land Powers Agreement and initiate the acquisition of tanks and build up defence in Finnmark faster. We'll make sure the Army gets helicopters on Bardufoss, and we'll strengthen Homeland. I really wish that the government parties would be involved in these proposals. Instead, there will probably be a budget agreement in Stortinget with cuts in the defence budget compared to the government's original arrangement. I take up proposals that the Labour Party has alone and together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e666	The representative Anniken Huitfeldt has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e671	I had not intended to mention the migration platform, but because the Foreign Minister mentioned my name in his post, I believe I shall make it quite clear that it has never been the intention of the Progress Party or my intention to open up regular migration from the poor part of the world to the rich part of the world. What was the issue at the time was the closest to securing land and the return of refugees to their homeland when they no longer needed protection. That was the case, and that was what was discussed. If you want to abuse a quote, which has otherwise been sent from Dagbladet yesterday – you might imagine where it comes from then – you can do it, but it doesn't make the matter any better. It's a cliché, but I say it anyway: The world was simpler before – not necessarily less dangerous or less bloody, but it was more predictable. Today we experience more volatile alliances, nations that divide internally, and international uncertainty. The world is torn between nationalism and globalism — two concepts that, if misused, can create great tensions. But that's not how we get to present these terms. Leading politicians and leading media houses present and mention globalism almost as positive, while nationalism should give us freezes and associations to fascism and Nazism. The first is produced as inclusive and the second excluding. Then the question is: Including in relation to what, and excluding in relation to what? It's in this perspective that we're experiencing tensions. National citizens will not be involved in the ambitious global goals of politicians. A little bit simplified, it can be said, that citizens do not accept that their politicians are negotiating away the right of self-determination, whether in terms of economics, climate or immigration. That is why, in part, we experience violent demonstrations in Paris, Brexit, and a number of leading countries say no to the UN Global Migration Pact. Politicians commit their countries in more and more areas, and they do so without asking their bosses – i.e. the voters – about law. Instead, the voters are taught about the sovereignty of globalism. In such a rapidly changing landscape, it is important that Norway finds its natural role — a role that should reflect Norway’s national interests in terms of geography, economy, historical experience and competence. We should seek alliances where all parties see themselves served by it and have anchored in the people. Agreements ensuring free and fair cross-border trade and NATO defence cooperation are two good examples. Global commitments entered into without national democratic processes and impact assessment in advance should be consistently rejected by Norway. Sometimes I ask myself if we have lost our moral compass. It hurts me deeply into my soul when Norway's vote in the UN indirectly or directly affects Middle East's only democracy, Israel. We have had several episodes where this has been the case, at the latest last week. Yes, we voted in favour of the United States resolution condemning Hamas’ terrorism, but at the same time we voted in favour of Kuwait’s call for such a resolution to have a two-thirds majority. Consequently, the resolution was not adopted. It was referred to as paragraphs why Norway voted as we did, but it does not last. Other countries did not need such paragraphs to vote against the requirement of a two-thirds majority. Nor has Norway been worth mentioning in the past. It is absolutely essential that Norway's vote in the UN is anchored throughout the government – and of course also in the government's declaration of cooperation. In such cases it must be legitimate to ask whether there may be other motives driving the vote. The budget we are adopting today continues to comply with the adopted long-term plan with the country-by-country decision. The progress party is particularly pleased that the level of activity has increased. There is more training and practice, especially in the Army and the HV. Strengthened presence in the north is important to ensure a credible defence. The government continues the establishment of the hunting company at the Garrison in South Varanger. At the garrison in Porsangs, work begins on the establishment of a cavaleribatalion. This represents a sharp increase in the presence of Finnmark. The acquisition of capacities to ensure Norway’s security and freedom is a necessary insurance premium to be paid. At the same time, we must not forget that a strong defence can only maintain the strength of combat if it is combined with a viable and competent Norwegian defence industry. Contracts for the Norwegian defence industry secured by our acquisitions are therefore crucial. The strategic cooperation established with Germany in the acquisition of new submarines from ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems is a good example of this. It is positive that this cooperation has contributed to the agreement that Germany acquires NSM missiles for surface vessels in the German Navy – and I stress that this is very important. Africa needs our businesses, but they've got our aid organizations," said Paul Collier, professor of economics at Oxford University when he visited Norway in the fall. The government has done a lot to turn the aid in a more entrepreneurial direction. Efforts to create jobs have increased. Investment in developing countries — both for local and international players — will be safer and more attractive. Norway shall also contribute to improving and more predictable framework conditions for the private sector in cooperation with local authorities responsible for the development of their own countries. Then I got no more, since I had to make a comment to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e699	Then the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e704	There are a number of questions I hope we can come back to during the debate. Today, we are discussing a budget to ensure increased Norwegian involvement in a number of important international issues, while at the same time ensuring that we deliver on important challenges related to Norwegian security and defence. SV promotes the proposals distributed in the hall, linked to a problem that I would like to address first. This is the appeal that Peace Prize winner Denis Mukwege launched earlier this week in connection with the great and important work against the use of violence and rape against women as weapons in war. One of his ideas is that a fund should be created for the upliftment of victims of violence, while increasing efforts to punish those responsible. I think it's right to dwell on it in this debate as well. I am very pleased that there has been a cross-political and clear feedback in Norway that this is an agenda that is important to us. One concrete way we can do this is to become the initiator of such a fund internationally. The arrangement of such a fund, just how the money is to be spent, is, of course, a question to which you need to come back more thoroughly. But the very idea, that there should be funding for upliftment, need not have anything to do with financial compensation, but different measures to show attitude, ensure that those exposed to this violence are seen, can be implemented in different countries. I think it's a great idea. That is why we allow ourselves to make a proposal related to it, for which I hope it may be possible to have a majority – and we are, of course, more than willing to discuss it with other parties. The SV's draft budget contains a strong commitment to solidarity with the poor in the world. In particular, I would like to mention those areas where we believe Norway needs to promote an extra effort. This applies, for example: the pursuit of women’s sexual and reproductive rights. There is an extra work on the international agenda related to Donald Trump’s ‘gag rule’ and where Norway still needs to increase its efforts, not least in view of the pressures on civil society in many countries. There are many important things to discuss in the development budget, in particular related to the provision of business support, the emphasis on global funds, etc. There are also disagreements between us, but we have to get back to that in the debate. As far as defence policy is concerned, SV has promoted a budget that clearly strengthens our national defence at the expense of participation in warfare abroad and at the expense of the escalation of American presence in Norway. It is our belief that a strong Norwegian defence, a maximum Norwegian defence of its own security, is what contributes most to dampening the tension in the high north. This is why SV proposes strong increases in the Army's budget, the Maritime Defense budget and the Cyberdefense budget, while proposing to stop the purchase of fighter aircraft at the level to which the Stortinget has now committed itself, so that we can obtain funds for both investment and operation in the rest of the defence. We have also made a proposal that is distributed, linked to stopping the location of American soldiers permanently on the Guards and Setermoen. I'll bring this up with the SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e725	The representative Audun Lighthouse has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e730	This week is 70 years since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the first article of the Declaration of Human Rights reads: ‘All human beings are born free and with the same human dignity and human rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act against each other in the spirit of the brotherhood.» This could as well be the preamble to Norwegian foreign policy. We work for human rights because we have a responsibility to act against each other in the spirit of brotherhood and siblinghood. It hasn't changed since 1948. The world is changing. There are good reasons to be optimistic on behalf of the world's population. Between 1990 and 2015, we have reduced the number of people living in extreme poverty by two thirds. In the world's largest democracy, India, the Supreme Court has decriminalised gender equality. And although many species are still endangered or eradicated, the black rhinoceros came back to Chad's hatred almost 50 years after the species was eradicated in that country. I therefore do not fully agree with those who paint the world as a single threat picture. Increasing economic and social freedom has been essential for the arrows now pointing in the right direction. At the same time, it is not possible to undermine the fact that today we face a number of global challenges that require answers. In Europe, several countries have tried to thwart courts, press and civil society in an attempt to rule as illiberal democracies. Poland and Hungary are at the forefront within the EU, but Turkey is also a country I and others follow with great concern. The changes in these countries do not happen primarily because the population wants a more authoritarian system of governance, but because there is an economic exclusion and a sense of social marginalisation going on. Globally, there is a great deal of uncertainty about today’s American foreign policy — and an increasingly aggressive Russian attitude towards Ukraine. The performance of the Vostok exercise together with China clearly shows that major-action conflicts are not as inconceivable now as Fukuyama thought when he wrote his thesis on the end of history. A growing attachment to protectionism and to international cooperation also contributes to a more uncertain world picture. In this unstable climate, our and Europe's role must be to stand firm on international cooperation, European interaction and a human rights-based international policy. From Norway's team, we have to suspend the EEA agreement – do not cut the funding by 1.3 billion. kr, as proposed by the Centre Party. Since Norway is not a member of the EU, we need to find other ways to influence EU decisions. We must be at the centre of European cooperation and seek solutions across national borders where necessary. We have to work actively to get a Norwegian seat in the Security Council, as our foreign minister is working for. This seat must be used to reform the United Nations system, for one thing I think we can agree on, and that is that today's composition of the Security Council is barely going forward. In NATO, we have to do what we can to keep the alliance together and America invested in European defence. We do that both by increasing our own investment in Norwegian defence and by actively contributing to the functioning of the alliance. In today's world, the EEA Agreement asks questions. That's what's done at home, too. There are also questions about cohesion in NATO, and questions about the value of assistance and international cooperation are asked to regulate migration. We have also witnessed that in the debate today. In my opinion, this is a threat to the open society we are happy in and defend from this pulpit. Therefore, it is quite appropriate that this government strengthen its efforts for European and transatlantic cooperation, for a more targeted aid effort and for international agreements to address international phenomena taking place. We need more cooperation, not less. I will again quote the Declaration of Human Rights, which I began with. The most important sentences we need to bring with us in our foreign policy are: ‘All human beings are born free and with the same human dignity and human rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act against each other in the spirit of the brotherhood.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e757	It does not call for the greatest polarization in this Chamber to say that Norwegian foreign and development policy should be based on clear priorities, ensure compliance with our international obligations, be faithful to our allies and be anchored in liberal values. So the question is what are these priorities? Of course, it is not entirely possible to separate a professional foreign policy debate from the local, more party political markings that naturally take place between the opposition parties and the government. It's also part of the debating democracy that we all like to participate in. I still think attacking the government must be subordinate to the major issues. If I had been in opposition, and also when I see this from the position side, I think the best thing we can do is analyze the threat picture around us in the changing world, and also seek refuge in the cooperation mechanisms offered to us. In the past, we have had on the table a matter that is not really on the table of the Storting, but which has created a lot of debate, too, because in the international legal language, many of the documents that are actually political declarations of intent have been harmed, along with legally binding documents. Nor will it be easy to hold a debate that informs the public, as one point in the Global Compact argues that politicians should – after all, we had a further development of the reasoning around it today – include in what is really political promises a terminology that is otherwise known only from international law and from international law. That is why, since we in the budget position from a majority and a minority refer to the UN's sustainability objectives, I would like to advertise slightly for sustainability objective No. 16, which has been a little underplayed. It's about justice, institutions and the rule of law. I have to say that the more I participate internationally, the more I am convinced that there is a direct context in which states open up competition for ideas, competition for accession and finally competition for power. I just got back from COP24. All trendy politicians have been in COP24, and now I have been. I was sitting on a panel with a representative of Zimbabwe, who could of course show that it had gone back in most fields, and that it was almost natural disasters. He had to bear to hear from some of us that Zimbabwe has been one of the richest countries in Africa by nature – ‘Africa’s bread basket’. One can destroy the wealth of a country by corruption, by mismanagement, and not least by the stagnation of many years of dictatorship. So what does this have to say for the Norwegian foreign policy initiative? Well, that just means that we need to refrain more strongly from resolution-making and more words, and use the forces where it really benefits, where states have committed themselves to a legal order, and hold them firmly to the commitments made. I think that's the right priority, because I think it's excellent, all that you've taken for granted in terms of Global Compact for Migration. It is nice that you also have a place where you can talk to other countries – some call it a global conversation – but what matters is what we commit ourselves to. That's also what makes clarity. Norway, as a small country, is totally dependent on us having a credible follow-up and a sanction regime against those who violate international law. That's why I'm very concerned about highly respected members of parties and this national assembly who say that it's not so dangerous if there's been a violation of international law in our own presence – only a three-four years have passed, so we can't in our Western democracies maintain the principles. The implementation of international law is an important priority for democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e775	There was a special start to this day. At the same time, put the spotlight on something that we in this room will have to take more into account in the time to come, namely that if we don't manage to tackle the climate challenges we face, unless Norway and other countries are able to ensure adequate food production, if we want to achieve climate-friendly agriculture in many developing countries, the migration challenges we see today are just the first letter of those we will get in the future. We also know that food shortages lead to instability. Going back and looking at the war in Syria and what actually started it, it was also about food shortages. It is then for the vote that there are so few who are in favour of the Center Party's repeated proposals that we need to increase support for agricultural aid within the framework of the aid. In 1970 we used 30 pst. of the aid budget – just about a small aid budget, but still – for agricultural aid. In 2018 it is probably down to 3 pst. We spend a lot of money on assistance in Norway, and that's good. We're not a military power, but we're a humanitarian power, and I'm proud of that. But we do not have a debate on what is going to be fundamental in both security policy and aid policy, if one thinks anything with the UN's objectives of eradicating poverty and so on. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Halifax started one day with a thought-provoking contribution from a researcher from Canada, who just put the spotlight on the «impact» of climate challenges in English, or influence, on security policy in the future, and on migration challenges. I hope that in later debates we can have time to go into this in more detail, because there are some contexts here that Stortinget has been far too busy and that we need to spend more time in the future. Our aid budget is clearly set up in this area. We are forced to invest more in a climate-friendly agriculture. Fortunately, we have organisations globally – not least as our own former councillor and staging representative Åslauga Haga leader, and several others – working to develop new seed varieties and to preserve existing seed varieties and plant material, so that we can make sure that we do the adaptation that will come. Most people, I think, in this room – with some exceptions – unfortunately believe that climate change we see, is something we have to live with and adapt to as best we can, both nationally and globally. When it comes to defence policy, we know that securing a defence that would defend the Norwegian territory, safeguarding national interests and ensuring the security of NATO countries, together with our allies, is the main objective of the policy of the Central Party. For all governments and for all sizes, the most important thing is to ensure the security of the inhabitants. The centre party wants a popular defense – a defense of the people and of the people. We need the defense of the people, and then we also need a visible defense. We need a shelter that's present in the community. We need a defense that's strong enough to actually make a difference and to be able to do the job it's set to do. We also need a duty of protection to ensure the broadest possible recruitment to that defence. The proposal for a budget from the government once again shows that the country's power is down. When I talk to people in Defense, not just those from the Army, but widely, it's a feeling that the county is the bag office of the government for all the other investments. It's not a defensive way to build defense, and it doesn't give us the necessary defense of our country. The conversion of the 2nd Battalion, the postponement of the purchase of tanks after 2025 and the rapture of the special helicopter support to the Army of Bardufoss are examples of the unwise decisions taken by the government. Nor do they stand firm on the agreement made with the Workers' Party, and it is no wonder that the Workers' Party feels cheated in this matter. For the last three years, the Central Party has proposed to increase the budget of the Army by 1 billion. NOK 300 million and the budget of the Home Office. in addition to the proposal of the Government. It would ensure the launch of investment in the necessary capacities, funded higher deployment rates in the Brigade and more training and training in the Army. At the same time, it would secure full funding for a home security of 45,000 soldiers, including more training and training and upgrading weapons and equipment. In connection with this budget, the Central Party has put forward proposals to secure the purchase of tanks in 2020 through the purchase of prototypes at that time, at the same time as we want to ensure a specific helicopter capacity for the Army equal to the current level, without going beyond the capacity level in the south. It is possible and highly desirable. We believe it is important for the Army to retain the capacity of Bell 412 and that it is not justified to postpone the purchase of tanks. We are positive that the government does not do anything with the 2nd Battalion in 2019, since we also want to keep the department as a standing department, but we still fear for the future of the battalion. It's an utopia to think that a mobilizable department should provide the same response capacity as a standing. It also appeared when the Minister of Defense now says that they should be ready in a few days, not in 48 hours, as the demand was actually when the process started. With the alternative central government budget, we would secure a much more robust land power than the government is willing to do. The centre party has fought and will continue the fight for the airbase on Andeya. One source tells us that there is now a full stop in MPA operations – so to speak, full stop at all – and that even a plane has been destroyed due to a lack of maintenance, as people who float with maintenance have stopped. At this meeting in Halifax, we also met people from Andeya who had come over with planes that were supposed to have maintenance, which would normally have been done in Norway, but we don't have enough capacity to do. The main challenge is about technical staff: One cannot be repaired early enough because one has too few people who can perform repairs and maintenance. As a result, aircraft are on the ground, and today we do not have that strength and regularity. We don't have MPA planes on friends more than – and this I have to get the Minister of Defense to confirm or not in his post – about 10 pst. of what they were originally supposed to do. That's a terrible thing to do. I hope the Minister of Defense can comment on that. I also hope that the Minister of Defense can say what he wants to do to ensure that we get the regularity of MPA trains in the north that we should have had, given the situation that the government has now seen the country in through its hazardous decision to lay down the base on Andeya and move that activity to Evenes. The government says there will be new staff, but settings are only partially manned. One in theory has personnel, but the new staff is not checked out and cannot do the job that they should and should have done. This is the government's responsibility, and I look forward to the Council today giving us an explanation of the situation and telling us how one will ensure that we have MPA capacity, because that's the question I get from people in the north: Shall we have it, or should we not have it? We know that the United States is using capacity. They're flying from Iceland and Germany. They've also been on some friends from Andøya. I would like to ask the Minister of Defence in his contribution to do well to ensure how the government will ensure that Norway also has an airwing in 2019 that can operate operational surveillance on Norwegian territory. Defence policy is partly weakened by this government. We're talking to different parts of the defense, and it's not just the county that's worried. In this Chamber we should be quite so concerned about what defence we are to have, which is to ensure the security of Norway in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e811	Would the representative Mr Navarsete like to comment on the proposals of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e816	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e821	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e826	I look forward to the budget debate, but I want to start by saying that I am pleased with the answer that the Foreign Minister gave when she summarized the previous debate. She said she had ‘no cause for complaint’. I totally agree with that. And I wonder that the representative from the Progress Party chose to use that kind of word. Then I must also say that I am inquiring about the representative Tybring-Gjedde suggests that not the whole government is behind our vote in the UN General Assembly next week. I also expect the Minister of Foreign Affairs to say something about it today, as it has been mentioned as a topic from this speaking room. It is also surprising that representatives from one of the government parties say that the violation of international law by Russia on Crimea is not of a serious nature that should be taken up by us. I am very pleased with the post that Michael Tetzschner made – there was a particular good reason to listen to it. And that is completely in line with the vision of the Christian People's Party. I'm going to go over to the budget debate. Global justice - these are the two words that should be governing Norwegian development. If we lose sight of the global perspective of justice, I am afraid that we will end up with a less efficient, poorer and less targeted development policy. It is still the case that extreme poverty, climate change and the huge income gap between poor and rich countries are among the biggest challenges facing the world. It is still so that only through a holistic Norwegian development policy can we help solve these challenges and create more global justice. That is why we are concerned to read the OECD Development Co-operation Report for 2017. It is established that the part of Norwegian aid that goes to the poorest countries is on its way down. The part falls from 30 pst. to the least developed countries in 2011 to 20 pst. in 2016. This is even more alarming if we see this trend in the context of the fact that more recent forecasts show that more and more of the world's extremely poor will exist in sub-Saharan Africa, and that the most vulnerable and poor countries will be hanging even longer after developments continue as they are today. It is therefore no secret that the Christian People's Party used the budget negotiations in the fall to fight against this development. Norway needs to give more priority to helping those who need the most, the poorest countries, especially in sub-Saharan Africa. We achieved a repriorization of 285 million. kr on the aid budget, where the money has turned towards more long-term development. In particular, the contribution is directed towards greater opportunities for food security and agriculture, regional commitment to Africa and support for civil society assistance. Furthermore, we must not forget the most postponing groups in the world and how we can reach them. Experience has shown that, through stable core contributions to UN institutions, we can do the most to reach the most marginalised groups globally. We know the extent to which conflicts and violations of human rights are obstacles to the development and permanent reduction of poverty. And we see how the persecution of religious minorities is increasing, and that the freedom of faith is under pressure in several places. We are also pleased that the efforts of the Christian People's Party on the Stortinget can help organizations like ICAN, Norwegian doctors against nuclear weapons and the Peace Council return to the budget. Such organisations are important for Norwegian foreign debate and policy development. In a troubled time that we live in, it's good to see that the Storting doesn't bore the head in the sand and hopes that things will calm down. We need to spend more time in the debates on international development, human rights and international cooperation in due course. Where other politicians say America First, we have to put international cooperation first – because it is about our common good, and because it is about global justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e851	Red represents a responsible foreign and defence policy based on Norwegian security interests, international law and international solidarity. That is why we have an alternative state budget that takes account of precisely these considerations. Unlike the government, Red has delivered on Stortingen’s decision to grant 1 pst. assistance of expected national income. We also distort assistance so that it reaches its best where it is needed most: more to climate, people on the run, Tax for development, decent working conditions, human rights, peace and disarmament. At the same time as giving up the constructive role of Norway internationally, the draft budget of Redts deals with the priority of defence of Norway. It is in stark contrast to the political elite that has ruled Norway in the last 20 years. Arguing governments have gone away from several of the main lines of what has been Norwegian foreign and security policy since World War II. While Norway did not participate in a single war of aggression from 1945 to 1999, Norwegian foreign policy has since been heavily militarized. It involves participation in a number of risky war experiments conducted by the United States and NATO, often in violation of international law. The Godal Committee concluded in 2016 that Norway’s participation in the Afghanistan war was completely unsuccessful. The war has caused Afghanistan’s huge civil suffering, and it is only getting worse and worse. Red was the only party that, when it was in force, clearly said no to Norway's participation in NATO's war of regime change in Libya. We also said no to a war that allied on the ground was Libyan Al Qaida and other extremists. In our budget, we cut support for US-led warfare abroad. Instead, we are giving a strong priority to upgrading Norway's independent defence capabilities by 800 billion. Extra to the Army, almost half a billion to the Home Office and 250 million. kr to the Maritime Defense and Coast Guard, to mention something. This is how we can keep the 2nd Battalion at Shield with today's setup and maintain our main defence resource: a competent and motivated staff. For 70 years, Norwegian basic policy has been not to allow foreign military bases on Norwegian soil. This is how we have ensured a stable relationship with a time-terrorizing neighbouring power through different security policy circumstances, but in secret, the Solberg government has replaced the tried and tested base policy with a risky experiment in which the United States has established military bases in Norway. American general Robert Miller recently told the U.S. Marines in Trøndelag that there is a great war with Russia on its way to Norway. Norway has nothing to do with the United States fighting its increasingly militarized and deadly major activisation with Russia on Norwegian soil. Therefore, Red will remove the appropriations for the US military bases in Norway. We believe that Norway’s security is best ensured by building an independent defence capability and a reasonable balance between deterrence and tranquillity towards Russia. Then to the fighter plane F-35. The actual purchase is estimated to be around 85 billion. kr. The most recent estimate of total lifetime costs is 297 billion. kr until 2054. Important parts of the defense are already too lye and cold water. F-35 will be the kitten that pushes other vital parts of the defense out of the nest for decades to come. According to Michael Hostage, General of the U.S. Air Force, F-35 is not designed to defend its own airspace, but to attack the territory of other countries. It adds up to continue to abuse our defence resources to the U.S.-led warfare abroad. That is why we are today promoting the proposal that Stortinget asks the government to start negotiations with the supplier of F-35 to stop the purchase of all fighter aircraft that have not been delivered to the Defence or planned to be delivered in 2019, and instead prioritize the defense's defensive capabilities. I'll bring this up on Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e868	The representative Seher Aydar has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e873	We must be prepared for higher waves in foreign policy, that our allies do not always act as we have been used to doing so, and we must be prepared to show greater ally patience. There are things that characterize the time we live in, and that we need to adapt our foreign and security policies to. This is also why the government attaches great importance to supporting and reforming the multilateral system, emphasising a liberal world order and working with Norwegian interests in a way that serves Norwegian interests best, for example. through safe anchoring in NATO, through the EEA Agreement and through participating in committed international cooperation. We often hear that the world is becoming more difficult, more unwieldy and more complex. That's right, but there's also a lot of developments going in the right direction, and I don't think we're going to one day like this to suggest that it's also very positive. More than ever experience being five years old, the production of renewable energy is growing, great progress has been made in the fight against ISIL, and half of the world's population is connected online. I also want to add, as the representative Abid Q. Raja was about, that India has now taken important steps towards fulfilling the right you have to love whatever you want. The main priorities for Norway remain as set out in the budgetary documents. We give priority to the North, our main strategic responsibility, and we give priority to contributing to international cooperation, among other things. by searching for a place in the UN Security Council. We are giving priority to the work done with Europe, through our new strategy for cooperation with the EU, and we are strengthening the security policy links with central European allies, which we have now done over some time. We are strengthening efforts in vulnerable countries and regions because we know that ensuring better development in vulnerable countries and regions is also an important contribution to development. We contribute greatly in terms of human rights and the promotion of human rights. Before the budget agreement, the government had already entered in a budget of about ECU 20 million. 680 million. kr for human rights work. It's increased by 20 million. kr, something we think is very positive. These include: money to focus on religious minorities, people with disabilities and not least the protection of journalists and human rights defenders, to mention something. In August we presented a new humanitarian strategy. Since 2013, we have increased the humanitarian budget by over 65 pst. It has been an important priority for the government because the number of crises in the world, the extent of them, the length of them and the complexity of them just increases. So even though the world has never used more, the challenges of meeting needs have never been greater. One of the main elements of the new strategy is protection. Of course, this applies to the protection of women and children, but it also applies to general protection through the fact that Norway has now taken on the presidency of the Mining Convention. Unfortunately, the use of mines and explosives is increasing again, and it has enormous humanitarian consequences. It's also a strengthening of what's about sexual and gender-based violence. Sexual violence is not a by-product of war; it is warfare with other weapons and instruments. There is a great deal of impunity, and there is a development that needs to be reversed. I can also tell you that next year we will be holding a conference in Norway on this topic, simply because we want to get more international attention on it. Then I can tell the representative Lysbakken that his proposal, which he has delivered in the hall, is well received by the government, in fact so well that we are already doing it. We are in contact with both the Mukwege Foundation, with the UN SRSG at Pramila Patten, who is working on sexual and gender-based violence in conflict, and with other actors working on this topic. We think this idea is good, and look at how we can do it in a good way. Let me use the last seconds on the question that came up related to voting in the United Nations. Norway did not vote against the US proposal or the procedures. We abstained on the procedural question but voted in favour of both resolutions. The reason for this is that, according to the United Nations Charter, decisions on international peace and security, such as the Middle East, require a two-thirds majority in the General Assembly. That is why we did not consider it necessary to vote in the procedural discussion. But we voted in favour of both resolutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e894	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e899	I would like to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs on his appointment as one of Europe’s ‘doers’. This morning, it was Political Quarter. It was not the Foreign Minister who was there. Usually it may be a bit unpopular to go to the Political Quarter the day after the Stortinget had different Christmas tables, but it was probably not the reason why the Minister of Foreign Affairs failed to meet, I know her right. It was perhaps because it was a bit difficult case to act and defend the Progress Party, as Torbjørn Røe Isaksen actually did. He said that the Progress Party acted neatly, and when Jonas Gahr Støre said that the migration platform was on the government's table, he said that he believed that for most of the people who heard, it was probably “a little bit like that” that it is the government's prerogative to have responsibility in foreign policy. That's what Røe Isaksen meant. There is something quite different than what the Minister of Foreign Affairs said earlier in the Chamber today. So my question is, does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that the fact that the government has priority and responsibility in Norwegian foreign policy is only tile nailing?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e906	I don't think you should base interpretations on who's in the Political Quarter. As the representative knows, I'm very early up in the morning, and I have no problem putting it either in the morning news or in the political quarter when I have a chance to do it – like Huitfeldt. It is quite clear that it follows from the Basic Law that foreign policy is the government's prerogative, and that is, of course, the government's basis in the migration platform case. That's why we've dealt with this matter in the government in a very common way, and that's why we've given our support to this platform in the United Nations. Then there has been a disagreement in the government. We have not hidden this either, it has been made public in both press releases and interviews by the three party leaders in the government. It doesn't rock the fact that this is government's prerogative. I also believe that it is important to stress, as I did in the presentation debate, that we want to inform the Storting to give an overall presentation of what this platform is and is not, of course, does not rock the fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e916	What is important in this matter is that it is on the government's table, that it is the responsibility of the government, and that if you want to afford from the Stortinget, you may have to come earlier. But what Torbjørn Røe Isaksen also said in Political Quarter this morning was that the Progress Party had acted quite neatly, that it is basically quite common, and that in foreign policy, when a matter is on the government's table, one of the government parties can come here and promote an alternative proposal. Now I hear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not agree with what Mr Isaken said in the case of tile nailing, but does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that it is quite common to promote alternative proposals in foreign policy, or has it actually become so bad that the government not only speaks with two votes in the case of the Advance Party and the Right, but also that the Right speaks with two votes in the case of something as important as how we conduct Norwegian foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e925	By no means. I dare remind you that in that government Huitfeldt sail was part of, there were six disser, often in very central areas, among others. some EU directives. It was also one of the parties that repeatedly protested against the government's policy, either in plenary right here or by making proposals on the boycott of Israeli goods, which, incidentally, is not the policy of this government. It's not unusual that there may be disagreement. I believe that Torbjørn Røe Isaac is quite right that this is handled in a tidy way in the sense that we had a discussion in government. There the parties had different positions, and then we handled it in a completely natural and straightforward way. We're also completely open to the fact that the government parties had different positions, and I don't think there's any drama in it. At least there is nothing more dramatic about it than the fact that the previous government on several occasions took formal dissidents where they were fundamental disagreements in Norwegian foreign policy, and all the issues – close to one – where the previous government had these issues were about foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e932	I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for her presentation today. It was in its place, and it was very factual. Then one as previous replicator can well ask questions that one has this one's. You can discuss what this one's is. We used to talk about this guy when we went to the King with things. But I'm going to ask a completely different question. I've been to the Transatlantic Forum in the United States. Not least when we were in the autumn session in Halifax, climate-smart agriculture was lifted. Now the Minister of Development is here, and I want to come back to this. At the same time, I would like to ask: does the Foreign Minister recognise the connection that is and will be between climate change and security, changes in the global security image?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e939	So definitely. It is also the basis for the government's work. It's a topic that the Germans now want to lift into the Security Council, and that we've had good discussions with Germany to be able to continue working on if we're elected. But there is also an important point in the sense that we know that resource conflicts in general often give rise to and fuel for conflicts, often armed conflicts. We see that if it is not possible to obtain either food or food, it will lead to migration flows, naturally enough, but of course it could also lead to increased conflict. This is one of the reasons why we are now strengthening the allocation of the World Food Programme – precisely because they have many solutions and a lot of cooperation that is just about ensuring that you have food and access to safe food. Food security is one of the greatest factors that drives both migration and, in many cases, conflict, and we are doing it simply to prevent further negative developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e944	There is no doubt that there is a paradox when we see discussions going on about migration, that many of those who are very negative about migration are also not drivers of implementing a policy that can in the long run ensure a stable people's attitude, that is to say, facilitate people to be bowing where they are. It's a pretty big paradox that I think we have to raise higher in the Norwegian debate. To the reply of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, whom I thank, can the Minister for Foreign Affairs say a little more about the long-term strategies? How do you think you're going to do the huge job in a more long-term perspective, and what is Norway's strategy besides giving money to the food program?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e951	I think the Minister for Development can answer what's in his portfolio. Very much of the long-term work we do is moving, among other things. to strengthen the ability of authorities, for example: facilitating food production. We have greatly increased appropriations to vulnerable countries and regions, precisely on the basis of the recognition that this problem is greatest in these countries and regions. Unable to solve those problems in the long term – we do it both through humanitarian aid and through long-term assistance – this will result in problems only increasing in scope and they are difficult to deal with once they have increased considerably. Then we see that in many ways we are able to prevent part of these situations from occurring. As far as hunger disasters are concerned, we have good experience from Somalia a few years ago. If we manage to prevent their occurrence, it will also be an important contribution to preventing potential... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e958	I would first like to say that I think it is a pleasure, what the Foreign Minister says about the idea of a fund linked to the uprising and rehabilitation of victims of rape and sexual assault in war. Our proposal is also an investigation proposal precisely because one has to do what the foreign minister says – explore a little different approaches. These are good arguments, we believe, that this could be a national fund, set up in cooperation with the UN, rather than a global fund. Then I met the opportunity to have a dialogue about it. That's what I was really going to ask about, but since the last discussion about the presentation is still the topic here, I could imagine asking the Foreign Minister to reflect a little about the use of that kind of explanations in Stortinget. Unfortunately, it has often been that different governments have not come to the Storting when you were going to make very important decisions, for example. related to Norwegian participation in the war. Now the threshold is significantly lowered. Will this lead the government's practice in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e965	To take the first one, I'm also glad that it's an investigation proposal. That's what we're also working on now, because at the same time, we have to prevent such a type of fund or solution from making it easier for those responsible to escape their own responsibilities. That's why I think it makes sense to have a dialogue on how to do it, also with the UN and with others, but we're positive to the starting point and the idea, and we also discussed it with the Mukweg when he was here. So to the last question. We have several ways to consult Stortinget. One is through the formal documents, the other is through the debates, as the one we are holding today, the third is through the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, where it is primarily necessary to deal with classified information. It also does the government in a rich monn, both in the course of ongoing operations and in advance of the implementation of operations. Open-minded speeches are used in different contexts when appropriate, and the government naturally wants to be able to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e972	Thank you to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for her previous statement, which I am 100 pst. Agreed. Now to something completely different. Some of the parties that are fighting in Yemen are now at peace negotiations in Sweden. I believe the Foreign Minister will fully agree that it is essential to express international support for that process in order to end that war. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Can she confirm or deny that Norway produces and transports war material — A and/or B material — to any of these parties at the same time as the parties are engaged in peace negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e979	As the representative Eide is well aware, the government has recently taken two decisions. One was to suspend licences on A-materials to the United Arab Emirates, which was done in 2017. On 9 November, a decision was taken that we will not give undertakings to new licences for B-materials and multi-use goods for military use in Saudi Arabia. It is the two countries that are now actively participating. Norway has never exported A-materials, i.e. weapons and ammunition, to Saudi Arabia, and it puts us in a different situation than quite a number of other countries. We have a very strict export control regime, and we will continue to have it. We make individual, thorough assessments, especially in view of the risk that may exist for use in war situations such as in Yemen. It has also been the government's very clear line in this matter that we wanted to see this situation in a larger whole and context.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e986	We have proudly seen the report our Foreign Minister has received in international media, which is probably fast. So we heard that she said from the pulpit that our allies don't always act the way we're used to. Then the Foreign Minister probably thought of our international allies, but we also have to record that some of the Right Allies' government parties also do not always act as we are used to. Then I'm thinking of the Progress Party's mention of Russia's annexation of Crimea. Two big business representatives have said that we should accept Russian control of Crimea if it can help improve our relationship. I believe the Foreign Minister heard the very good speech of the representative Tetzschner today on this matter, and my question is simple: is it that the Red Party is now closer to its Russia policy than to the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e994	No, I don't feel that it's in any way. We maintain what is and have been the government's very clear line. We condemn international law violations, and we believe that breaking international law as clearly as Russia has done here requires more than a national response from Norway. It requires an international response, and that is also why we are working with our European and international allies both in restrictive measures and in a very clear political condemnation of what has happened. It is not a policy that is changing. I registered that the representative Tybring-Gjed also said that it was not the Progress Party's policy to change either. It is important for Norway to be predictable on these issues. We are, and from our side, it's not at any time up to any change, rather on the contrary -- we're very clear and firm on what's been the government line all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1001	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1006	There is a strength for Norway, and there is reason to note with satisfaction that, with some exceptions, there is a very clear consensus on Norwegian foreign policy and Norwegian defence policy. That's what's the most basic thing to say. Nevertheless, some aspects of the development of the defence should call for the attention of the Storting. It is very clear, I believe, in the draft budget that we are now discussing in concrete terms. Both the representative Huitfeldt and the representative Navarsete have addressed some aspects of this which I would like to emphasise from my point of view. One of the features of this government's defence policy is a sustained depriving of the Army. We all know what it contains in concrete terms, and we see very clearly the difference between the opposition's proposals with regard to the Army and what is the government's position. However, what is very difficult to obtain, and on which I will challenge the Minister of Defense when he will speak later in the debate, is: What does the government think about the development of the Army versus air and sea? It's not like we don't have a community in the priority of air and sea, but how do you deal with the Army? I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Defense, like me and everyone else who is dealing with these questions here in the Storting, is very well informed about the unrest that is in the Army about what they themselves consider to be a down-priority. There's a side to the current debate in which it's very important for the Storting to get clarity, so that we know where we stand with regard to the Army, see what the government thinks about the further development of the Army. We have heard the Minister of Defence answer this question earlier, but it is very useful and absolutely necessary that he does so in this debate too, when we are going to vote later today on the very current appropriations from the Stortinget side. The second thing I brought up in the financial debate too, but I'm raising it up again. We agree on the 2 percent measure, but as Huitfeldt said, now it goes down. It contradicts what the Prime Minister says, and I also want to challenge the Council of State at this point to say very concretely what the government's reasoning is about this. Because I don't think you on the one hand, with the Prime Minister at the head, should be so clear that this goal is fixed when you're on your way the other way. It is the other side of this budgetary procedure that I believe there is reason for the Storting to ask for an explanation of and have clear attention around. The third is not of the same principle nature, but is incorporated into the series of privatisations that the government is involved in in all areas of society. What I have registered in the media in the morning today is that the head of defence today, while we are dealing with the budget, is going to go out and tell him what he thinks about how to handle the workshop development in the defense. Today he's going to do it, it's in the media. Here we are moving on to the edge of what I think the head of defense can do before the Storting has said his. I would like to draw attention to the fact that workshops cannot be closed without the Stortinge saying that they should be laid down. I therefore assume that the head of defence does not come up with a plan that includes the closure of workshops in today's public performance. I'll take that into account. The second is, of course, that this is not just an issue of ideological privatisation, it challenges our defence security in many ways. To rely unequivocally on the private take over – within air protection and army – the maintenance of the material that is absolutely necessary in the field is a security policy risk. Experience from all other countries has been shown, therefore this also needs an explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1019	I would like to begin by congratulating the government on a well-submitted draft budget for both development, foreign affairs and defence, and also on the majority that has been negotiated in the Grand Duchy, which has made a budget even better and with predictability and security in key areas of society for Norway. While we are debating the Norwegian state budget in the field of foreign affairs, there are demanding conditions in Europe. France has been hit by major demonstrations — the so-called yellow vests — and in Strasbourg we witnessed new tragic terror two days ago. The United Kingdom’s decision to withdraw from the EU is now at a critical stage, with great uncertainty both about a final agreement, about whether the government will be in place and what the consequences will be for the country in the long term. The situation in Europe’s neighbourhoods is still challenging. Russia’s illegal annexation of Crimea and the destabilisation of eastern Ukraine continue to challenge Europe’s stability, and questions of how to deal with refugees and migration continue to create disagreements within the continent. Sweden is still without government several months after the elections, and next year there will be elections to the European Parliament, where a great offensive from right-wing populist movements is expected. Challenges in Europe make us listen to voices at home that call for a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement, that we should distance ourselves from Europe. I believe this is completely wrong. It's in these times that we need to be more united with our closest allies and partners. I'm going to be a little more specific about the EEA because the agreement is important both for jobs in the districts, across the country and for our business actors. The World Trade Organisation, the WTO, complemented by the EEA and EFTA Free Trade Agreements, constitutes the support pillar of Norwegian trade policy. In the government budget submitted by the government, the largest increase in foreign government is associated with commitments under the EEA Agreement – an increase of 1.5 billion. kr to 7,5 br. kr. On 3 December SV presented a proposal for a representative to set up a selection to explore possible alternatives to today’s EEA Agreement. This proposal is superfluous. There are no alternatives to today’s EEA Agreement that safeguard Norwegian business interests, Norwegian society and our relationship with the EU in as good and as good a way as the EEA – apart from full EU membership, of course. Business needs the connection with our neighbouring markets that the EEA Agreement gives us. It's worth noting some facts -- like that 80 pst. of all the goods we sell to the rest of the world, sold in the EU, and that 60 pst. of all the goods we buy from abroad come from the EU. Common rules make it easier and cheaper to trade with EU countries. Without the EEA Agreement, the goods we export become less competitive. And what does that lead to? If we had not had the EEA Agreement and access to this market, it would have created uncertainty about exactly what is important in Norway, that we have a policy that allows us to operate both in the districts and in the central districts. There is also a passport-free journey to Europe, there is free access to the European study and labour market, which students at home use, and we have safer food and cheaper roaming. We have better rights for consumers, and we have better access to health care. Summary: Europe does not need more fragmentation, but more cohesion. The EEA Agreement precisely ensures our access to Europe and is the main agreement for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1036	The long-term plan provides for an annual, lasting and significant strengthening of the defence economy in the period 2017-2020. During this period, the plan provides for an increase in the defence framework of over 8 billion. kr. These are large and lasting increases, and the economic framework must be strengthened at a pace and scale that enables the defence sector to market the funds properly. The government has followed up this planned and step-by-step approach in the draft budget. In 2017, the government strongly strengthened the defence budget to make the structure that we already have work. The foundation wall must be built. In 2018 we continued the investment from 2017 and started at the same time phase 2, with increased responsiveness, activity and staffing. From 2019, phase 3 becomes visible for real, and we are increasing the pressure on investment in new strategic capacities. The activity and manning of the Army, the Marine Defense and the Home Guard are increasing. Even though we now have a frigate smaller at our disposal, we still have to sail more with the other frigates. How the disaster with KNM ‘Helge Ingstad’ will affect the overall level of maritime defence in 2019 is now being discussed by the Defence Manager. The level of investment will increase significantly in 2019. The government is making significant payments to new fighter aircraft, new coastguard vessels, new submarines, new maritime patrol aircraft, NH90 helicopters, as well as tanks, air fighting protection and a new artillery system to the Army. The land-military capacity and the footprint of the defence in Finnmark are increasing. The establishment of a control unit at Porsangermoen starts in 2019. This is the first part of the creation of the Cavalry Valley. The Artilleribatalion continues its construction and is scheduled to receive artillery benefits from mid-2019. The construction in Finnmark, the creation of own recruitment schools outside the operational units and the increased use of fresh operational reserve workers must be seen in the context of the proposal to amend the second battalion. It has been said and written a lot about the country power in the last year. In fact, through the treatment of the land-use proposition, the Storting decided to increase the ambitions of Homeland Protection and maintained a shared helicopter solution between Bardufoss and Rygge. In addition, the Government assessed the level of configuration of the 2nd Battalion and the previous acquisition of new tanks. The government has followed up the decision of the Great Government to strengthen activity and material renewal in Home Affairs. In addition, the government has increased the resources of watchkeeping and securing features at sea. This is not a reintroduction of the Sjöheimewert, as the Center Party has wrongly claimed, but part of the long-term assumptions that give the Home Protection Framework conditions for the performance of its tasks. The government has put forward a plan for a shared solution with the Bell helicopters that takes care of the Storting's ambition to increase support for the special forces and, at the same time, provide the Army with helicopter support from Bardufoss. The government will implement this solution as soon as it is practicable, but at the same time we have made it clear that the defence preparedness for the police in North Norway will be maintained until alternative solutions are in place. The Workers' Party's proposal for the purchase of several used helicopters will not increase capacity until the longer term, as the challenge is access to qualified pilots and technicians, not access to the hull. The government will convert the 2nd battalion from a light infantry department to a mechanised battalion based on mobilization personnel. Brigade Nord will then have three mechanised manoeuvring battalions that provide increased operational flexibility. Recruitment training is distinguished from the operational units, which thus become more sharp than today. The further development of the 2nd Battalion must be seen in the context of several actions undertaken by the government in the Army, which increases the response capacity, and the strengthening of Finnmark, which increases its presence, availability and preparedness. The conversion of the 2nd battalion starts only after 2019. The size has asked for the price tag for higher setup degrees for 2nd battalion. The government has submitted that. The government is working to acquire modern tanks for phase-in from 2025. Existing tanks will be given a lifetime extension to maintain capacity until new tanks are in place. The maintenance of the acquisition of a tank has also been assessed, but there is no room for such a large investment within the existing economic plans in the coming years without it being at the expense of other priority investments. Both the life extension and the acquisition of new tanks are under way and in no way delayed. Further follow-up by the Government to the Land Power, the increase in the Home Guard, the split helicopter solution for Bell 412 helicopters, the change in the configuration rate of the 2nd Battalion and the acquisition of new tanks are explained in the budget proposal. I have noticed that the minority in the Committee has presented alternative proposals. I am now looking forward to the government's proposals being given a majority and finally able to land, so that we can continue to work on the development of the land power of the future and increase operational capacity by making changes. We are now halfway into the implementation of the four-year long-term plan. The government's bet has begun to produce results. The arrows point the right way. Gradually and at a pace that can be realized, we build a foundation wall, increase activity, reduce clairvoyance, modernise defence and increase operational ability. Efforts and modernisation continue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1064	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1069	The Council of State frequently and extensively referred to the long-term plan in its contribution, and it is natural that since the budget lines are a consequence of the long-term plan. But as the minister himself was in, we are soon facing a new one, and what the Storting awaits is how much it has to say for our future dispositions. During the Army Summit this year the Council of State was asked if he could say what he thought was important to prioritize in the next long-term plan. He was asked in English, he answered in English, and he said, "We are using our best minds for this – that ain't mine." Then I wonder if the minister here in Stortinget can say something about what he thinks should be prioritised in the next long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1074	I can do that. I'll still keep that in the phase we're in right now, there are wiser heads than mine to do that work. We've put the Swedish Defence Research Institute to look at, first, where were we when we started the job with the plan we're in now, and where are we in the plan we're in now, but at the same time look at: what has changed? This situation is affected by things that happen on the outside. They will deliver a job in February. We're going to review it, and from that we're going to shape the office of the head of defence, who's going to start his professional military council. It is delivered in such a way that we have time to deliver to Stortinget a proposal for a new long-term plan in spring 2020. You can wonder in many trends: what has happened, and what can be important in the next, but I don't want to do that. I want the Defence Research Institute to do its work, and I want the Defence Director, as it has been requested from Stortinget, to get as independent of his work as possible, so that we get the professional military council we need for our work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1081	You don't need a professional-military advice to have political ambitions for the defense's ability to protect the nation of Norway, and that's what I'm asking. When the Council of State says that there are wiser heads than his, and that they are used in this work, first in the Department, then in the Defence Research Institute, and then when it comes to the Professional Military Council. At some point, the policy has to come into the picture, and then I can't stop asking the question about who actually decides. Who is contributing to the visions? Who is contributing to the long lines of how Norway should defend itself and how the defence of Norway should be? It cannot be posted to professional military councils or to the Defence Research Institute. What happens in the second when the trade-military council crosses the political ambitions? Who, then, is in charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1086	I'm very grateful, for this is a much more precise question to a politician than both what I got at the Army Summit, and the previous question from the representative Christensen. The vision of how to defend Norway, and the political story, the government is working on every day. We're working on that in our relationship with NATO, and we're working on that in our foreign policy work. We have said that we stand by the commitments of the Wales Summit in 2014, and we have said that we base our defence policy on two pillars: we must be a credible national defence, and we must be a credible ally in the NATO defence alliance. We buy, operate, train, mobilize, sail, fly and roll capacities that fit into NATO's plans. We adapt our plans and our exercises to be a NATO country in the defense alliance. We build our defence policy on the two pillars and on foreign policy, which we have been doing for many, many years. The political vision is the long lines of Norway's foreign and defence policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1091	In my speech, I challenge the Minister of Defense to say a little bit about how Norway should maintain an adequate operational capability within surveillance. I've been in jet lag after a week in Washington, and I've been on Christmas tables, so it's possible that I don't hear and understand everything, but I haven't understood any clear answers to that challenge. As it is now, it is claimed that Norway will not have the airborne search and rescue capacity beyond the rescue helicopter in Bodø, in the Barents Sea after New Year, in addition to not having MPA operations there. The question I am asked is whether Norway should have MPA capacity or not. With the $8 million. kr that the government has put on the table, it is claimed that it is simply inadequate. I would like the Minister of Defense to do exactly how he wants to secure the MPA business after New Year's.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1097	The short answer to that challenge is that we buy new surveillance aircraft, that a new capacity is phased in, simply because the planes we have today are older – they are worn out. That was the background to our decision to acquire new aircraft. Let me remind you that that time in 2016, the Center Party was against buying new aircraft, because the planes we have today could fly for many, many more years. It's hard to keep them in the air, because this is older material. We've been completely open about that, and that's why we buy new ones. Monitoring in the north does not just happen with these planes. We have other capacities that help to expand this image, so I'm not worried that we should not be able to solve that mission. But just when it comes to the surveillance planes, it's challenging simply because this is old material. That's why we buy new material, and that's why we're rehearsing new personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1106	Thanks for the answer. It is true that if one had had a stronger maintenance staff, they would be flying in the air today. As far as I know, there is one plane seen on the ground simply because of the lack of maintenance and engines that are defective. It's not exactly satisfying when one refers to new flights, because then one can ask the question: When will they fly on friends, when will they be fully operational, and when will we have crews ready to fly them? That's the time perspective here. I must say I was surprised when I fell into a bunch of nice guys in Halifax and I asked what they were doing. They fly over to maintain them, something we should be able to do in Norway. It costs a lot of money, and we had already upgraded the Orion fly. The reason the Center Party was because we were going to take them on for a few years was that we had just spent a lot of money on upgrading. But it is clear that when maintenance is not prioritised, they become defective. So what's the time perspective here?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1113	I don't recognize myself in that description. I also don't know where the representative has the stories that we don't have the ability to keep the planes in the air, from. We have been open that changing a capacity presents challenges. You like to use material for so long that you have to change it, and in those periods you very often get a dip in your operational ability. We see that when it comes to fighter planes, we saw that when we switched frigates, and we'll see that when we switch submarines. We see it with tanks. We're looking at it in a number of areas. There's nothing different about this. So it's challenging to hold up personnel. It has been open when I have been visiting Andøya, and measures have been put in place to make this transition as smooth and as good as possible. In conclusion, we have other capacities that help us give the image we need in order to have a good understanding of the situation in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1124	The budget we are discussing is a budget for defence that is significantly weaker than the alternative proposal SV has put forward, in terms of land power, in terms of maritime defence, and in terms of cyber defence. At all events, the Minister of Defense is making a proposal that is less concerned with strengthening national defence than the SV is, because the government spends so much money on participating in wars abroad and on overinvesting in fighter aircraft – above the level that Norway needs for our own national needs. This compensates the government for stationing more US Marines in Norway and further north than before. Does the Minister of Defense think it will increase or reduce the tension in the north that the government is moving American soldiers further north in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1131	In order to have a good input into this, we need to clarify the following: I am a politician who believes that Norway should be a member of NATO, the representative Lysbakken is a politician who believes that Norway should not be a member of NATO. When I say that we build our defence on two pillars, a credible national defence and a credible membership of the NATO defence alliance, it is important for Norway. It's been important since 1949. The tension in the north does not increase by being a member of NATO, there are no indications. It gives us clarity to our neighbor in the east who is very good, and who creates stability. It's not like we're moving American soldiers further north to push a voltage in the north. In the long-term plan, we have said that our forces should practise more with allied forces, simply because they are getting better at it. This is on the rotational basis, and it doesn't help create any tension in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1140	In the last three years, the National Audit Office has strongly criticised the government’s failure to give priority to complying with Storting’s decision and assumption regarding object protection – a very important part of Norway’s preparedness. In his 2015 trade-military council, Chief of Defense Haakon Bruun-Hanssen concluded that participation in foreign war operations has been at the expense of domestic preparedness. Foreign Minister Eriksen Soreide also mentioned resource-requiring foreign operations when she was asked to respond to the government's lack of progress in preparedness during the object protection consultation. Norway has been involved in war in Libya, Afghanistan, Sahel, etc. in recent years. Will the government now take care to prioritize domestic preparedness over US-led war adventures abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1149	Very well known, no one has linked Norway's participation in international operations with the object protection case. Object protection we've answered too many times. We're going to take that very seriously. It's a big project where we use a lot of resources, both human and economic. There is no reason to argue that our participation in international operations weakens readiness at home, on the contrary. It's a responsibility we have internationally. We are in surgery simply to stabilise areas and give the authorities of other countries the opportunity to build democratic institutions and build democracy to preserve their citizens as well as they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1156	I wonder what authority the Minister of Defense has to change the second Battalion setup. Because he refers to the decision of the Storting wrong. It says we have to have a price label before the final decision on composition change. We got the price tag, but we didn't make a change in composition decision. But here, the Minister of Defense is standing on the Spokesman's chair, saying that he wants to do something that the Storting has not decided. What authority does the Minister of Defense have to change the second Battalion?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1161	Yeah, I'm in The Storing today. We have delivered on the request decisions we have received on the 2nd Battalion, we have delivered on the Land Power Proposition, and we are adopting a budget today. We assume that when we agree on the budget today, we have also landed the land-use proposition. That is the basis and basis for that opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1166	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1171	Democracies depend on clear borders to the world around them. The evolution we've seen over many decades has gone in the opposite direction. International structures, whether the EU or the United Nations — another example is the Paris Agreement — are moving important decisions out of democracy, and in France we now see the result of the people’s loss. In France, the resistance to boundless globalism has taken to the streets, clad in yellow vests. The Progress Party will take care of Norway’s autonomy and autonomy. That is why we want to renegotiate parts of the EEA Agreement. But, in particular, it is completely inappropriate for the Progress Party to submit several international structures to Norwegian immigration policy. That is why we are opposed to the United Nations Convention on Migration. It is strange to hear this debate, for it is always claimed that this is an agreement that is not legally binding and does not have consequences for Norway, at the same time it is very important to hear that agreement because it obliges other countries. For me, it's hard to understand. If it obliges others, it shall also bind Norway. So what's the problem with the agreement? Well, it facilitates multiple paths for regular migration. Much of what is illegal immigration today can become legal immigration in the future. It facilitates free movement across borders, provides for more family immigration and more rights for immigrants, including illegal immigrants, facilitates the transfer of money abroad and fosters so-called financial inclusion of migrants. Mechanisms should be set up to facilitate the transfer of social security rights, and worst of all: the state should train the press in migration and shape positive attitudes towards migration among its citizens. Largely more orwellish it can hardly be expressed. Jusprofessor Eivind Smith says the following to Document.no: ‘There are many examples that decisions that are not legally binding on Norway may be given several weights also in legal reasoning. Examples of this are also found in the case-law of the European Court of Justice.’ Professor of State Science at the University of Oslo Janne Haaland Matlary has made similar comments on problematisation of political leaders. Right should perhaps listen to his good friend in Sweden Carl Bildt, who has expressed on Twitter: ‘Of course, we have an interest in a global framework for cooperation on migration. It is not legally binding but politically binding.’ And that's where the problem lies. Norsk Editorial Association also has opinions on the agreement. They consider it problematic and express the following: ‘Public authorities shall not instruct the media; it is not their task to train journalists in sensitive language usage. There is a great difference between informing and instructing, and this text goes too far in the last.’ Even Swedish journalists respond to the text of the agreement. What I think is most eye-catching today is not that you just draw out the positive aspects of the agreement when you discuss it. It is that the Workers' Party and, in particular, the Centre's party are not at all concerned with the content of the agreement, but is only talking about the procedure – who is to deal with the case, where is it to be dealt with, when to deal with it, and why is it to be dealt with? – not a word about what you think about the migration agreement in addition to general terms. Must be a mess for the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1205	Women's right to control their own sexuality, to control their own bodies and thus their own lives have always been under pressure. There's power in control of a uterus. That's the way it's always been. The reproductive capacity of women, and not least the desire of society to determine how it is to be used, keeps women firm, prevents them from living a free life whether it is justified by religious norms, ideological beliefs or poverty and structural conditions that make women unable to take control of themselves. Nowhere are women more vulnerable than where lawlessness has taken over. During war and conflict, a merciless and lowly weapon is raped. The last few days have given us evidence of what we're not allowed to forget. But that the fight for control over own reproduction has never been won for any place, we are still being demonstrated even near ourselves. Now it blames a conservative, I'll say reactionary, wave over the world with the goal of restricting women's sexual and reproductive rights. With Trump, the United States is in many ways back to the Reagan era. I'm sure everyone in this room is able to picture this almost two-year-old image of Trump, surrounded by a small army of men of their best age, who sign the gag rule, the ban on support for organizations that provide abortion counseling. That image has already become iconic - in the wrong way. It was already forbidden to use US aid to carry out abortions. But now funds are withdrawn from advisory organisations. We are also talking about organisations that carry out abortions, providing assistance for the implementation of abortions by other means than US aid, but these organisations should not be allowed, for example. to provide birth aid with American tax money. The last time this policy was implemented, during Bush, meant that organisations working with family planning and health care for women and children had to close clinics and stop giving birth control. The result has naturally become higher abortions. Now the World Health Organization says that there are about 225 million women in developing countries who want to use contraception, but who do not, among other things. because they do not have access. These relationships are so obvious, they're so simple. Access to information, to prevention, to health care, to abortion, to maternal mortality, to infant mortality, to development. It's one of the easiest things we can do to lift women all over the world, but it's resisting because it's control of the womb it's about. Then, sadly, ideology often trumps both development and rights. It's the same story over and over again. When the Trump administration cuts, we have to step up. Norway needs to take greater responsibility for sexual and reproductive rights. The working party proposes to increase the allocation by 150 million. kr on next year's budget. I really wish it was a proposal that got a majority in this room today. So I realize that it's hardly going to happen, but I hope at least that the parties through the debate we're going to be able to send a signal through the posts we're holding, through the focus we focus on, that we're concerned about women's rights, women's position, women's reproductive health globally, and that we're going to take strong leadership in this area in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1226	The 2019 Defence Budget is a continuation of the high level of defence budget for 2017 and 2018. In addition, there's an increase of 4 billion. NOK, including an increase of nearly 700 million. kr related to a reinforcement of the defence in addition to the long-term plan. The budget increase is actually over 7 pst. The core wall of the defense is now in the process of being put in place, and the defence capability is being built step by step. We see that the operational capability is gradually improving, the Marine is sailing more, especially in the northern regions, the Army and the HV are exercising more, and not least material availability has become significantly better, especially in the Army. The defence we have is actually being put in place, and that was the task that the government had to tackle when it released after the government change in 2013. We are now moving into a new phase, in which we are phased into a new weapon system with a view to a modern defence for the future. It is really an insurmountable political challenge, as all the main systems in all the defence sectors had collapsed roughly at the same time. That is why we are now acquiring new fighter aircraft, new marine surveillance aircraft, new submarines, multi-national satellite cooperation, etc. The comments of the Workers' Party show that the government has permanently reduced its priority over land. That's what the representative, Mr. Kolberg, said. With respect to reporting, it is directly wrong. Let me recapitulate what's in the documents from government to big, about what you do with the Army in particular. You buy a new artillery. Why do you do that? Why prioritize artillery before tanks? Well, precisely because the artillery is the largest loss-affecting capacity, a much stronger loss-affecting capacity than tanks. You buy a new fighting air force for the Army. Buying equipment for electronic countermeasures, new trucks, new rescuers, new armoured engineering equipment, etc. But it's not just about buying new material, the army is actually reorganizing. The land estate and the proposition pointed out that today's army structure was not sufficiently exploited. Some departments were not operational for up to five to six months. They spent considerable time teaching specialists, and when the specialists came to their departments, it wasn't that long before they were going to graduate. This is now being changed. You call soldiers for more recordings throughout the year. The specialists get 16 months of initial service, and you get a reserve to practice every year. Then I have to say that there is a lack of consistency in the defence budget between what the Workers' Party promises in the public, what they write in their comments, and what they are willing to give money to. On 4 June, Jonas Gahr Støre said in the VG that six new helicopters would now be purchased. The working party had been out on the second-hand market and found out that it was possible to buy a new helicopter for $40 million. per unit. I can't see $24 million. in the State budget for that purchase – far from it. And then you're going to buy tanks, you're going to say that in the VG. What do you do? You turn up $70 million. to tanks. I guess there's a new tank in a good day. You jump right on a pre-project, you don't have alternative assessments. What did you do when you bought a new artillery? A concept selection assessment was carried out, so you knew you could buy the best artillery. This jumps the Work party smoothly and immediately onto a preproject. Had you even set up money that was consistent with what you had promised, there would have been some inner logic in it all. But the top of double communication from the Workers' Party is therefore the proposal that they are today promoting about dedicated helicopter support for the Army. The working party has double-communicated as far as the helicopter is concerned, and continues to do so. It is not possible to maintain the Army helicopter on Bardufoss while strengthening the terrorist preparedness represented by the Special Forces of Rygge. It requires 15 new helicopters. It is a concept to go around, through hulls, maintenance personnel and pilots.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1245	We have a large aid budget for 2019. The more important it is, then, to prioritise and concentrate efforts on what we think works, and where we believe the assistance can be effective. In particular, it is important to support the country’s own efforts. The UN's sustainability target requires that 95 pst. the funding comes from the countries themselves. This means that what we can do to contribute to national resource mobilisation is going to be important. It also applies to capacity building in different public institutions. That is why we have a strong increase to the Knowledge Bank of Norad in next year's budget. Not least, we are increasing within the Tax for the Development Programme, where we are ahead of the form in terms of our promise to double the support from the Addis Tax Initiative. In this context, anti-corruption work will also be important. We know that there is more money that leaves Africa every year through illegal capital flow and corruption than it is that flows to Africa in the form of aid money. Then it is important that we also contribute to increasing the tax base of some of the world's poor countries. To do so, we must contribute to the creation of more jobs. There's Norfund an important tool. We have contributed considerable funds to Norfund in the years that have passed, and we continue in that track in 2019. Norfund has more than 20 billion. kr at work – more than 300000 people working directly and indirectly in the companies Norfund has invested in. This is a significant contribution to the development of jobs and not least to the sealing of the large gap in, for example: Africa, where every year 12 million young people are ready to enter the labour market, while there are only three million jobs available. To have a modern economy requires access to energy. In many of the countries with which Norway cooperates, only 10 pst. of the population access to energy. This must be done if we are to be able to achieve growth and long-term development in countries. That is why we are doubling the investment in renewable energy in 2019 compared to 2017, and I am pleased that there is so much support in the room for this very strong growth in renewable energy. It is therefore essential that countries, regardless of their progress towards development, invest in their own population. Therefore, health and education will continue to be very important priorities for Norway in our development policy. We are increasing both health efforts and educational efforts because this is the basis for a country to have growth and development over time. So we know that growth must be sustainable. That is why climate and the environment are a significant contribution to our budget. We are pleased to say not least to the Centre Party, which has been concerned about this, that climate-friendly agriculture and sustainable food systems are, of course, central to that perspective as well as to economic development. Within the sea, Norway has assumed an international leadership role, not least through the Prime Minister’s maritime panel, but also through what we do over the development budget. We've been able in a few months to stack on our legs a new fund in the World Bank, Problue, which so far has collected 1 billion. kr for the effort against marine litter and plastic in the sea, and we have signaled that we want to spend about 1.6 billion. kr the next four years on our development budget. There has been a significant interest in women's rights in the hall today, and I'm glad, because there is a priority that the government shares, and an important basis for the government's development policy. I come today from India, where I attended a large mother and child health conference where SRHR was also very central, and I am pleased to say, not least to the committee leader, that Norway has gained considerable recognition for our driving role in this field and our considerable commitment internationally. It's noticed. We've said to increase the SRHR effort by 700 million. kr from 2017 to 2020, so that in 2020 we will be close to 2 billion. kr for this purpose, and we are well on track. It's in addition to what we're doing through the Global Financing Facility, where we've promised 3 billion. kr, of which about one third could be considered as aid for this very important purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1266	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1271	Firstly, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Minister for Development now, at the end of his speech, raised the question of women's reproductive and sexual rights. There's a lot of commitment to it in the hall, and there's also a lot of commitment to that case in the Workers' Party, which I was in on in my previous post. It is good that Norway has committed itself to further escalation in this area, but we believe that the situation is precarious due to the large budget cuts that the Trump administration is in the process of implementing. Therefore – without having any illusions of a positive response – I would nevertheless challenge the proposal of the Labour Party that exists to strengthen this area by a further 150 million. Dr, as a direct signal that Norway is ready to take more responsibility when as important actors as the United States — but also others, mentioned for example by the Catholic Church — are now deprioritising this area for religious and ideological reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1278	As I said in my post, I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is concerned about this matter. This is an important foundation for our development policy. It is an area of high priority that we have decided to increase significantly over several budget lines. Not least, we support UNFPA, which is doing important normative work in this area. The head of UNFPA was also present at the conference in India and expressed great satisfaction with our support, not least on the normative side – which is a huge challenge as we enter the 25th anniversary of the Cairo Conference next year and are in a situation where we have to fight to keep something we fought in 25 years ago. It's very little uplifting. But Norway is definitely going to do our part of this job and work internationally to contribute to this important issue. I am also pleased to say that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality is also engaged in this work internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1285	Thank you for your reply to the Council of State. The Minister for Children and Gender Equality’s commitment to this abroad has been noted. I understand that we are not going to get an impact on changing the budget priorities for the next year in the Chamber today. But since the Minister of Development is concerned with the importance of normative signals, can I then simply ask him if he can promise the Storting to be a champion of women's reproductive and sexual rights, no matter where in the world they might be attacked for religious or other reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1292	Of course, I'm concerned that women's sexual and reproductive health and rights are being protected wherever in the world it might be. As I said, this is an important matter for us, a matter we work a lot with internationally, and I can assure the representative that it is our intention to continue stepping up support for this field in line with what we have announced earlier. Of course, this applies both financially and in the normative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1297	Thank you to the Minister for Development. I think it's positive that he says that one will bet on food security when it comes to agricultural aid. What I find difficult when I read the budget is to see how a person distributes these funds. In recent years, bilateral aid has been dramatically cut, while part of the funds channelled through large funds have increased considerably. It seemed to be a strategic choice from the government's side. Then you can discuss the cost of using these global funds so much. When it comes to the escalation in the revised national budget, where the core support of the CGIAR, FAO, IFAD and WFP together accounted for more than half of the total investment, it would be a great advantage if we could see better in the budget how the money is now distributed. Would the government like to come back and be much clearer so that we can clearly see where the bet is going? Now it's very hard to figure out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1306	This is the first year of a new budgetary structure. I think absolutely there will be room to make adjustments to the next year when we have gained some experience in how this new budget structure works. The purpose of the new budgetary structure is to simplify the proposition, but also to make it more visible and clear to the Storting how the government actually spends the money. I also mean, to add it, that now the proposition has come down to an extent that makes it possible to get through it without too much effort. So I agree. We spent about 2 billion in 2017. on climate-friendly agriculture, food security and agricultural support, and it is important that this money is spent as efficiently as possible, of course, and that it is visible to the Stortinge how we make the money. I fully agree with Mr Navarsete's representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1314	I thank you for your answer. When I was positive at the beginning of my question, it was to what was said from the pulpit and that understanding, not the budget, because I think it's too bad at what's such a big global problem. And as I also did well in my post, it has very big implications for security policy and not least for migration and, of course, for people who don't have food. We are busy in the Storting, and also by the government, that we should be in agreement with the aid policy. And when I, as I referred to in the previous question, see that the government is using more and more global funds and steps down the other aid accordingly – how to ensure coherence and follow-up of human rights, to name two important areas, as we are constantly increasing the use of global funds? What's the control mechanism there?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1321	It is true that the government is using global funds and programmes and supporting the multilateral system, which I believe the Stortinget has also been concerned that we should support. When we do that, it's because it gives large-scale benefits, lower transaction costs, more of the money comes to those who actually need them, and it gives more effect. For example, the World Food Programme is an organization that, because of its size and its logistics apparatus, can easily reach more than we can if we have bilateral efforts. That's why we also work through multilateral organisations. But only about half of the aid money goes through multilateral organisations – the rest is largely bilateral assistance of a different kind. Then I am pleased that the representative of Navarsete is impatient to increase the effort in agriculture and food security. This is an area that the government has also signaled that we will give higher priority in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1328	I am also pleased that the Minister for Development raised the question of women's sexual and reproductive health and rights. The reality of the world now is that the parts of civil society working on this, women's organisations, organisations working with safe abortions, for example, are being strangled. This is why it is so important for Norway to step up assistance to this end. In the SV budget, we have proposed stepping up more and faster than the government does. It's about supporting the women's movement, it's about increasing women's assistance, it's about increasing efforts for good sex education and safe abortions, and it's about increasing support for UNFPA. The serious situation we have internationally stems from the policy of our main allies. How will the Minister for Development characterise the oral basket rule and the policy of the United States of America in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1335	I believe that this is a step in the wrong direction. And it is, as I said in a previous answer, a significant challenge that we are now in a situation 25 years after the Cairo Conference where we must actually fight to avoid losing rights that the world agreed on 25 years ago. That is why we also have a broad commitment in this area. We work both through civil society organisations and through the UN system, where UNFPA is a significant and important beneficiary of Norwegian aid in this field. We work bilaterally through our embassies, and this is of course also a theme at international conferences. It was an explicit theme I raised with reference to the U.S. policy when I was at a conference in India yesterday. This is a theme that we spend a lot of time on, and that we're going to continue to spend a lot of time on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1342	I would also like to ask another question, because a clear shift in development policy after the blue government took over has been that issues of economic inequality and the importance of inequality for development have received less attention. On the other hand, the government has increased attention to nutrition aid. There are many good reasons to have business at the heart of development policy, but we lack the attention and emphasis of the government on corporate social responsibility – what has to do with human rights, what to do with the environment, what to do with, for example. the development of trade unions and other things to do, which can benefit many people from economic growth. Does the Minister for Development have any plans to follow up his commitment to industrial assistance with a greater emphasis on corporate social responsibility in the beneficiary countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1349	Let me start by saying that we are, of course, also concerned with inequality and want to contribute to smoother, fairer distribution, including growth in the countries in which we are engaged. Let's do that, for example. through the work of the Knowledge Bank and the Tax for the Development Programme, to give a concrete example of this. So with regard to business and human rights, we make high demands and have high expectations of business that they should follow up their human rights obligations. In 2015, the UN adopted principles for just business behaviour, which we have followed up with a concrete action plan by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So there was a recent report that pointed out that here there was room for making improvements. It's a report that I'm going to read very seriously and look at and assess whether we should also come up with new measures to safeguard the important interests that business here can share in managing, namely in human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1356	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1361	I am concerned with a long-term defence policy at all stages. This is especially true when it comes to employees, although I am for the large investments we have made and will do. When it comes to products and materials, our greatest competitive advantage is the wise and hardworking people who go to work in Defense every single day. That is why I am negative to this government's plans for a large-scale privatisation of parts of the Defense, especially when it comes to maintenance. This is a question of security and preparedness, not of ideology. It's also a question of defense, of what works, and what doesn't work. I'm such a politician who is for things that work, and for things that don't work. A concrete example is the NATO mission the Army has participated in in Lithuania. When the Norwegian army leaves, maintenance personnel travel with them to arrange materials. In Lithuania, the Army has cooperated closely with Germany. While the Norwegian attitude has been to do the job while on mission, the Germans have been told that their maintenance colleagues are employed in a private company, regulated by a contract. When the number of hours worked in the contract is exhausted, they can no longer work, even if it is necessary. In individual areas, it may be reasonable for the defence to cooperate with private actors, but on the part of the Workers' Party, we are opposed to privatisation that is not guided by the defence's need for flexibility, competence and security, especially in crisis and war. It is absolutely essential for the legitimacy and trust of the defence that it is subject to democratic control and control. The cleaners in the Defence — most of them women, many with decades of experience — are excluded from pension entitlements. The government claims they've saved millions of dollars, but is it true that it's there, by cutting down on the laborers, that we're going to make money? The quality has not gone up. There is still a complaint about cleaning, and the contractual hours do not go far enough for the job to be done properly. Tragic examples of cleaners need to be followed by security guards because they do not have the necessary safety clearance. This is not responsible for managing the resources. In the budget we agree on a lot and disagree on something. That's something I don't understand, and one thing I don't understand is the comment from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party that they're going to cut $25 million. kr to the UN Relief Organisation for Palestinian Refugees. What I absolutely don't understand is what makes you feel now that time has come to give less to Palestinian refugees, when you see what the situation looks like. It's not possible to understand. So I'll talk a little bit about something that doesn't cost money: working. I believe we have great capacity to do more. In peace and reconciliation policy, there are a wide range of conflicts that we could help to find a solution. In the fight for women's right to determine their own body, which Martinsen's representative was in, and for access to safe abortions, we need Norway to put itself first. Disarmament policy requires both defence of the existing and new initiatives to meet technological developments, such as: rational regulation of autonomous weapons. We people think everything gets a lot better over time. The Secretary of State said it very well, that something in the world is going well, and something is going a little bad. That's true. But that's why we need to sharpen what we're agreed on. We must fight again: for democracies that already exist, as in Poland, for rights that are taken for granted, for a world order that is taken for granted, and for agreements that have already been concluded. That is why I am very pleased that we have a foreign minister who does not see globalisation as a threat, who does not see international agreements as a threat, but who, on the contrary, understands the importance of standing up to the international agreements and structures that we have heard today from representatives of the Progress Party. This debate has not been NM in political analysis, nor should it be, but I think it is problematic when the representative Amundsen says that the UN, the EU and the Paris Agreement are the reasons why people go to the streets of France. I just have to say, it's not. It is France's inability to take care of its own population, and it is a completely different debate. We have to remember that what's being said in this room is being noticed internationally. That's why we have to raise the voice of those institutions that need us now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1376	It summons the alternate of the Nordland County, Grethe Andersen, taking no seat. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1386	We are a few days after a very great peace price. A few days ago, we celebrated the Peace Prize winners Murad and Mukweg, and we listened to their strong appeals to avoid sexualized violence in war. In view of that, of course, I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has supported our proposal for a fund, which has also been addressed by the Mukwege. I hope that she will recommend the government parties to vote for this when it comes to voting later today. At the same time, the strong appeals from the Peace Prize winners are in stark contrast to the failure of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to answer my question during the exchange of lines instead of whether it is that Norway, while there are peace negotiations in Sweden between the parties that are warring in Yemen, produces and transports weapons to the same parties as the peace-traders. She refused to answer it. She gave me a history of Norwegian arms exports, but that's not what I asked. I asked if she could confirm that at the same time as the peace talks are going on, we are exporting weapons. I believe that her evasive response confirms that it does Norway — Norway exports weapons to some of these parties at the same time as they sit in peace talks. I think that is very critical, and it definitely helps undermine the peace process in Sweden. It gives a signal that Norway has no confidence in those peace negotiations, and it definitely gives the signal that Norway chooses to speculate in industrial and commercial interests at the same time as the peace negotiations are taking place. One can imagine the comparison: Norway has conducted peace negotiations in Colombia, in Sri Lanka and also in Sudan. If some of Norway’s close allies at the same time as Norway worked for peace in these countries, the negotiating parties, with weapons — exactly at the same time — would provoke Norway quite strongly. Now I have addressed this several times, also in a written question on December 3rd. I also received no answer to this question, a confirmation of the connection between peace negotiations and arms exports. I have to ask that the Foreign Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs show respect for the fact that when we in Stortinget ask the institution a written question and question in a reply, we will get an answer. The store cannot perform its controlling task when the answers are as elusive as they have been in this case. I expect the Minister for Foreign Affairs to answer my question in concrete terms during his closing post later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1397	Let me first thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement on the UN migration platform earlier today. Migration policy is a national issue to be shaped in line with democratic principles. It is therefore important that we – the representatives chosen by the people – express our opinion on Norway’s connection to this platform. It was not open to full debate on the occasion of the case, which the Progress Party regrets. I record that the matter has been raised for discussion and vote in several parliaments, including in Germany and the Netherlands. Norwegian connections to the platform have produced strong reactions outside of the community. Where mainstream media have been tause, social and alternative media have flooded. At the bottom is that people are worried. We, the big politicians, must take people's concerns seriously. I am highly doubtful about the further internationalisation of important issues such as migration will serve Norwegian interests in the long term. I think it is problematic that political power is increasingly transferred to bodies that are not responsible for elections. This must not happen in the area of migration. Norwegian politicians have to control Norwegian immigration policy. We must and must take the people seriously, and we must also listen to experts. In this case, several have stated that connection to the platform can lead beyond what is perceived. The platform is not legally binding, but it could lead to compliance expectations. We know that there are strong interests, both nationally and globally, that want a liberalised immigration policy and that want to limit the scope of action of national authorities on migration issues. The Progress Party will not give them yet another political press or instrument in their fight for this. As a long-standing journalist in the Norwegian press, I have particularly taken note of the platform's 17th objective of promoting a knowledge-based public conversation in order to shape perceptions of migration. We should listen to the Norwegian Editors' Association and the Swedish Association of Journalists, who react to formulations that allow the authorities to instruct the media. With us, freedom of speech and the press is strong. In many countries, this is not the case. It is therefore very worrying that Western countries, which are the tablers of freedom of expression, are behind these formulations. In its explanation of vote in Morocco on 10 December, Norway clarified that nothing in the platform limits the exercise of free and factual journalism on migration. That's good. But in what way goal number 17 will be interpreted and used in retrospect, unfortunately, we have very limited power to rule. Let me therefore state that the Progress Party is saying a crystal clear no to Norway joining the UN migration platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1417	In today's debate on the UN migration platform, many have emphasised that this agreement is not legally binding, which is of course also true. However, this is considered so important for all the other parties that Norway is absolutely required to be part of it, despite a number of problematic issues and despite – as the representative of Engen-Helgheim mentioned earlier – the agreement in 29 places obliges the signatories to follow up. We need to ask ourselves why countries such as Australia, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Latvia and a number of others choose to stand outside, even though this agreement has no legal binding force. My fear is that this agreement and its content will evolve into customary law, be used as standard, argue as a UN policy and therefore become politically binding, even if it should not be legally binding. Professor Eivind Smith has also confirmed that Norwegian law can give legal force to non-binding opinions, an example of which is the UN Children's Committee. I would also like to refer to Asle Toje's comment in the evening post for a while back, where he says that the outline of this platform was written by the same voluntary organisations that were paving the way during the 2015 refugee crisis, which was a demanding period and a difficult situation for us and other European countries to deal with. Three years ago, we experienced a refugee crisis in Europe, a situation that was unmanageable in the long term, and where we know that not only were people in need of protection coming, but also very many without the need for protection, even from countries that are not in a war situation. When we know about population growth in Africa in the next few years, a double of 2.5 billion in 30 years, I'm worried about the pressure we can experience, the influx of economic refugees to both Europe and Norway in the time to come. There are things we have to take over already. I also record that several of the parties who have asked for the statement that came today – and which I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for holding – did not wish to debate the presentation in retrospect. I think that's unfortunate. I also record that the representative Lysbakken believes that debating this matter in Stortinget is almost a waste of Storting's time. I think that's a little wise statement. A global agreement on migration deserves absolutely the time and debate of the Great Britain in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1430	The threat that nuclear weapons can be put into service, either by nuclear attack or by accident, is a persistent and serious threat that hangs upon humanity. There are good reasons to assume that it was primarily luck that led us throughout the long cold war to avoid the use of the large nuclear arsenals on both sides. Now, when we're in an international situation where more nuclear powers are again rusting up, where we get more nuclear powers, and the danger of the weapon being put into service, thus increasing, whether it should be through war and deliberate use or by accident, we need to raise the issue of nuclear weapons higher on our agenda. The main hope of nuclear disarmament is the process of a ban launched by the United Nations. That's what the Stortinget is going to discuss in a separate debate, so I'm not going to dwell on that particular piece anymore. However, the debate on nuclear weapons is important in itself – the information work and the political debate – and I note that in the budgetary agreement there are several organisations that are at the heart of this discussion, which have increased support for their information work. That's good. However, this has also been demonstrated, among others. one organisation that has been important in this debate, namely No to Nuclear Weapons, is not in favour of the agreement. It seems a little bit random and therefore also unfortunate. SV has therefore made a proposal as to what we think would be the right model for this, namely to set up a post for information work for peace, where organisations can apply for funding, and where all organisations working in this field could therefore also be considered. We have specified, since we have respect for the budgetary agreement, that this must be done in the revised national budget, and therefore I also hope that the Christian People's Party, in addition to the red-green parties, can consider voting for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1441	I want to take the trip to Svalbard, an area that – as so many areas in Norway – needs to be converted. There are in particular two issues in the Workers' Party's alternative budget I want to mention today. One is linked to the need we have to strengthen the opportunities and infrastructure for research and industrial development. In this context, the construction of the Research Park in Longyearbyen today has become too small. For this reason, the Workers' Party has re-examined the proposal for a sketch project which could allow for a step-by-step extension of the Research Park under the direction of Statsbyggen. That's what we've chosen to prioritize with 10 million. kr in our alternative budget. This is a required barley, for which we had hoped to have a majority. We do not do that in the case we have to deal with today, but we can hope that it might happen next year. The other concerns issues related to international cooperation and the systematic use of research cooperation as a tool, both for training more people and as a basis for dialogue with other nations. Norway has been a major power in the north. We have been because we live there, live there, and not least we have far-reaching knowledge based on a lot of research efforts. We have something called the Norwegian Academy of Science for Polar Research, which works interdisciplinaryly on important issues related to the polar regions. There is also an important channel to engage in cross-border dialogue at a time when dialogue has become more demanding and we need to open up as many channels as possible. That's what we've chosen to prioritize with 1 million. to provide basic funding for the continuation of the activity, inter alia. with summer courses on Svalbard, but also – as I have promoted several times now – with international cooperation. So one minute on climate change: those who do not believe that climate change has come must take a trip to Svalbard. We're in the situation that there we already see them. In 2015, we also had the loss of human life, which was related to climate change, because there is a race where there was no race before. Climate change hits us first in the north, and they hit us hardest. There is no basis for stepping down efforts to gain international support for the necessary instruments and instruments to limit emissions, which could mitigate climate change. On the contrary, there is a need to give up. This matter needs to be raised on the Storting's agenda, and we will continue to mention it in all relevant debates and look for the right tools to move forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1452	During a meeting with the French President Macron, the Ghanaian President Akufo-Addo said that it is not right that a country such as Ghana, 60 years after independence, finance the health and education budget on the basis of the willingness of European taxpayers. We should be able to finance our basic needs ourselves. We should be concerned about what we ourselves can do in the 21st century so that Africa will no longer stand by the hand and beg for help and charity. The African continent -- if you look at all the resources that exist, that's what should be given money. We have enormous wealth, said the President. And he added: Africa's youth must stay in Africa to build the continent. In other words, he says the straight opposite of what is on the United Nations migration platform. Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration – stick to that title. A global agreement for safe, organised and regular migration – that is, increased migration from the poor part of the world to the rich part of the world. GCM consistently claims, without reservation or documentation of any kind, that immigration is positive for both the country of dispatch and the country of destination. It's a blank lie. Everyone knows the challenges of receiving migrants in hundreds, thousands and tens of thousands. It's a United Nations language that we accept, but it's a blank lie. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the legalisation of more immigration and to give more rights to immigrants. So you use a wrong premise to get more immigrants to travel to rich countries and give them more rights. This does not mean that all migration from the poor part of the world to the rich part of the world is negative, but they facilitate illegal immigration and give them rights. When you say it doesn't change anything, it's amazing that our leading cooperating countries think it changes a lot of things. It changes everything when it comes to migration. The United States was first out, then Australia, then Israel, and now there's ten to twelve other countries in Europe saying exactly the opposite of what we and the Right in the government are sloppy about nothing changes. If it doesn't change anything, then why do we agree? Why are we on a platform that doesn't change anything, and have spent years negotiating a platform that doesn't actually change anything? It doesn't make any sense. I encourage the Workers' Party, the Right and the Centre's representatives in this room to vote down the agreement, be less concerned with the process and more concerned with content. It is our responsibility to the voters, and therefore I urge again: vote against this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1463	The President will invite the representative to use a little different words than 'blank lie'. You can use a different word to generate the content of the sentence - something you also got.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1468	I would urge representatives from the Government Party to vote against their own proposal to move the helicopters at Bardufoss. It's one of the things I want to talk about here today. There are a number of issues that cause concern about the weakening of the defence presence in North Norway. That is why the Workers' Party has made it clear that we do not want to accept a hidden dismantling of the Coast Guard Command. We do not want to change the set-up of the 2nd Battalion on Skold, and we have suggested that the maintenance in the Defense should not be privatised. I take the floor first of all to express a strong concern about the signals from the Minister of Defence today about the helicopter capacity at Bardufoss. Minister of Defence Frank Bakke-Jensen said earlier in this debate that the transfer of Bell helicopters from Bardufoss would take place as soon as practicable. There is a breach of the long-term plan proposal and of the multi-breeding remarks that no helicopters shall be moved until alternative helicopter standby is in place. There is no secret that this government has repeatedly tried to move helicopters from Bardufoss. The fact that they will once again weaken the army's helicopter capacity is both a breach of agreements here and a breach of the Storting decision. In the treatment of the land-use proposition, the government proposed that there should be 3 helicopters on Bardufoss and 15 on Rygge. The majority of the population rejected that model. In the revised national budget for 2018, the government proposed the same distribution again, 3 on Bardufoss and 15 on Rygge. The majority of the population rejected that solution again. Now the government and the defence minister are weakening both the army's helicopter capacity and the civil protection in North Norway. They even do it before they themselves have said that it is responsible. The long-term plan proposal requires that no Bell helicopters should be moved until sufficient helicopter capacity is established in North Norway by phase-in of NH90 and AW101. When the Minister of Defence now says that the move will take place as soon as practicable, there is a breach of this. I would challenge the Minister of Defence to give a clear and concrete answer here today: is the government still standing by the promise in the long-term plan of defence and the unequivocal leadership of the majority of the population that no Bell helicopters should be moved from Bardufoss until alternative helicopter capacity is established? Such insurance is the least defence minister can come with today. Anyhow, the government should realise that the helicopters at Bardufoss are to be preserved, not moved, and the Workers' Party, together with other parties, has made a proposal on this today. However, on the basis of this debate and the signals from the Minister of Defence, it seems that the government will once again go in to weaken the helicopter capacity of the Army and thus also the civil protection in the north. Then there is a heavy responsibility on the Christian People's Party in the forthcoming government negotiations to correct this irresponsible attitude that creates major concerns in local communities, the Army and the police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1483	I was inspired by the contributions of the representatives of Amundsen, Wold and Tybring-Gjedde and their exclusion from the platform. Since we have spent considerable time on a platform that is not legally binding on Norway, I think that our legislative assembly should also remember what Norway has committed itself to by means of real agreements and treaties. The reason why I'm coming back to this point is that it's just the less powerful countries that have the greatest joy of the international community committing themselves to agreements. But I think it's okay to criticise the challenges with this United Nations platform, and – I must say here – we have a number of excellent countries that have chosen to stand outside. This may be due to a difference in temperament and different traditions, but also to the belief that the countries with which Norway has cooperated in this matter, and the interests of these countries are well safeguarded by the clarifications that have taken place. Then, of course, there's an intrusive question that Tybring-Gjedde asks: why have you spent two years on something that turns into nothing? Well, that's precisely because that process began very realistically, very detached from international law, and then eventually the countries have begun to take an interest in this work that 5,000 NGOs have left behind, and then they have tried to connect more strongly to the international law of which I am a strong advocate. Because it may also be that if you surround yourself and throw around with legal terms that are not really binding on promoting political discussion, it may be that inflation is going on. First of all, you devalue the legal language, where we need to use it precisely, and then it could be that you become free passengers by just raising a political opinion to something more than it actually is. This is why it has been used for two years and that reasonable, realistic constraints have gradually been introduced at the end, so that the arguments that many countries have rightly opposed to joining the agreement may have been taken out. So it's good to build bridges between the two positions without using such strong characteristics about the motives of the different countries that are right here. We're together in the West about the basic values, and we've also clarified them in our representation in Morocco.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1494	I think it is very good that today's meeting in Stortinget started with the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, so thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government for saying that you wanted to have such a statement. It should be a matter of course that, in such a significant case, we come to the Stortinget and explain, and that should be a broad debate in this House. I record that especially some of the opposition in the media and others have tried to make it like there's no point in debating this, that this is just for the government to decide. It is easy to record that the opposition has so little to do with what this could result from consequences. But that's okay, I'll register it and hope the voters will remember it. This migration platform to the UN has created a strong commitment – not just in Norway, but in many countries around the world. Thus, it has been found that a number of countries with which Norway often cooperates in a number of areas have chosen to withdraw from this whole agreement, or the platform. Let me also say that there is nothing suspicious in itself about working out such platforms, agreements or resolutions. It does so all the time, and I think it is good that the Norwegian government – at its missions – has helped to contribute by working on the text in order to ensure the best possible impact on our government's asylum and immigration policy. But it is when there is a final text that we have to decide whether or not this document is something we can agree to. I am pleased that the Progress Party clearly says no to this platform, and that our government members have taken hers on that connection. For the Progress Party, this is one of the most important political issues of our time, namely migration and the consequences of increased migration to Europe and Norway. If we fail in this field, it could have irreversible consequences for our well-being and for our nation in the future, and that we should chase myself over when we discuss such an important matter. So the agreement is not binding, it is said. Well, anyway, there's a clear majority that's very much to say yes to this, so at least it has to mean something political that you choose to say yes. There is no doubt that a strong signal is sent if you choose to say yes and join, and we know from now on what can happen if you signal that Norway will be on a platform that can soften asylum policy. For the Advancement Party, it is important to signal that we should not soften up, but on the contrary tighten up, especially on family reunification. So it's important to signal which policies we're going to pursue in the future, and we're doing that by joining or not joining this agreement. So let Norway send a clear signal today that we are saying no to the migration platform and that we should support that proposal the Progress Party has promoted in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1509	It becomes clearer and clearer to me how important this day is in the Norwegian big business after hearing a number of contributions from the representatives of the Progress Party. We are faced with a very important principleal debate dealing with two dimensions. One dimension is pretty much illuminated, and it's of course about the government's overall approach to Stortinget. I must say that I do not understand why the Prime Minister does not stop this, why the Prime Minister does not ensure that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is not sent into a disgraceful situation where she must represent the government, but at the same time gets a government party against herself in her own room. I do not understand that the Prime Minister is not stopping it, but it can only be understood in one way, namely that the political balance of the government is such that they had to accept such a situation as we experienced this morning. It's just to take notice. This is by itself not my problem, or the opposition's problem, it's the government's problem – and, my God, the Left, goes along and dangles after. That's what's saying about the left in this situation. The representative Abid Q. Raja is trying to talk himself out of it, but of course he doesn't succeed at all, even though he's normally good at that. And then it's serious: what are we hearing from the representatives of the Progress Party, and what is that expression, really? I've sat in my place and smeared the expression and weighed it back and forth, but I call it reactionary nationalism. That is what it is, and that is what this should be stamped as. So the opposition takes a discussion about this, makes a clear selection. I regret that the representatives of the Right – with their value-conservative tradition – are sitting quietly, largely in terms of the facts of the matter. The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave a brilliant account where she took a clear distance from this. I heard it very clearly, so there is no doubt about it, but in the debate it gets quite quiet. It should not be, because it is this kind of force – and just as it happens – across Europe; they are threatening from point to point. They have to be stopped, actually! Should we vote down this? But of course this is also a verbal struggle, it is a political discussion that must emerge in the public space, and therefore it is necessary to label this clearly. The last thing I want to say is with reference to the representative Tybring-Gjedde, and that is the following: He says that they know that there are almost only problems with this – at least a lot of problems. Time is up, but I just want to say finally If all those who have come here to the country, striked one day, Norway had stopped – also for Tybring-Gjedde. [[(President clubs):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1522	The President would like to point out that it is not certain that everyone in this Chamber thinks it is a good thing to use the term "Lord" even though it is approaching Christmas, and perhaps not particularly about another party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1527	The government's draft budget, which we have decided on in the area of development aid, since, in particular, together with the cooperation parties in the United Kingdom, has increased the overall humanitarian budget by more than 50 pst. from 2013. The draft budget for 2019 proposes a further increase from 5.151 billion. DKK to SEK 5,396 billion. kr. The humanitarian needs in the world have increased sharply in recent years, and according to the UN, no more people have ever needed humanitarian assistance than today. Most of us who are here today – many of us at least – were present at the Nobel Peace Prize, and we have also had the pleasure of having visited one of them, Denis Mukwege, on Stortinget. I'm going to take up here what he said in his greetings after receiving the Peace Prize, and which he has also expressed in other contexts, namely that there is a report prepared by the United Nations, a report that has later been in a drawer. You have closed your eyes, you have closed your ears, and I must express from this pulpit that I have a expectation that Norway and our government will contribute to that report coming up on the table regarding the description of systematic sexualized violence as part of the strategic grip of the war. It is gratifying, it is very good, that we have also been given the initiative to get a global fund that will give up to those who have been subjected to systematic sexualized violence, but it is also important to succeed those who have suffered this violence, and not least that we also have a vigilance and look at the support we may give to regimes that introduce named offenders, as revealed in the report drafted by the United Nations, which has not been followed. For most of us it was a sweeping review of how systematic sexualized violence is part of the warfare, which was put on the agenda during the receipt of the Nobel Peace Prize by these two well-founded recipients, who gave a strong witness, but also a face to how the world does not lead to anyone being punished, that someone should be compensated, and that we should follow it up in the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1541	The ability to defend national interests and Norwegian territory and to provide NATO countries with the necessary security lies at the bottom of the military defence we have today. We need to invest in a structure that can quickly focus on changing threat images. The defence industries, the Home Office, the cyber defence, logistics and intelligence are a broad range of capacities that will somehow implement this. Defence competence must be built inwards and maintained. It means a lot to the security that people feel they have to face the defense and the job they're going to do. The presence in the north I would like to mention especially – not to be demeaned by anything else. The bet that takes place in North Norway is very important to us. In Homeland, we want to strengthen capacity in the north, and we want to strengthen Homeland Protection as part of it. The army – with the brigade as the tip and as the combat force – lies there. It's exciting, what's happening in Finnmark, both with the hunter's company being built up, and not least with the maneuvering departments on the Porsangmo, which is a "step" towards the establishment of a cavalry battalion. We in the Center Party are concerned that this needs to be reinforced. It must also be speeded up in time, if possible. That fighting force is important. Army 2nd Battalion is a light infantry department, not mobilized. It lies in the brigade today and should be absolutely maintained – and not replaced by mobilising personnel. It's a deterioration of the impact force of the brigades. We are clearly opposed to this. In the case of helicopters, it's probably saying itself: it's part of the capacity required in a brigade. With regard to Home Security, they have become more important. They have confidence, and they're worthy of trust. Equipment and training – often referred to – must soon be a matter of course. Territorial monitoring and control, object protection, ability to combat minor departments, social security issues, security crises – Home security is an organisation that can be used throughout this spectrum. The inner coastal zone and the Sjöheimevert are a wrong decision. It has to be in place again to have all four legs that the Home Guard has to be on. With regard to the total defence of object protection, the Centre for Home Affairs has been given responsibility for it. It is a trust statement to the competent personnel who have been there for many years, and who can now do a job not only for the Home Office, but for the entire defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1554	The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech that we can expect high waves in foreign policy out there. I mean, that's okay with the spirit pond, too. I need some conceptual clarification after the debate today, especially from the representatives of the Progress Party. We are afraid of globalisation. If I had known 15 years ago that I was going to stand on a pulpit and defend globalisation, while representatives from the Progress Party were very opposed to it, I think maybe I'd have suffered. They are concerned about globalisation. They are concerned about internationalisation. They're worried about mainstream media. What is it? Mainstream media in Norway are the established newspapers that provide us with information every day. Standing on the pulpit in Stortinget and saying that there's good reason to be a little skeptical about that information is very dangerous. Instead, reference is made to Document.no as a building in the name of freedom. It's very strange to use Storting's pulpit to bring down the confidence of the press that way. Reference is made to social media instead and to Document.no. – it’s much better to listen to it than on mainstream media. It worries me. That is why I have to ask – I see that the representative Amundsen is on the list of speakers after me, so it would be nice to get a clarification: what is the alternative? What is the alternative to the UN? What is the alternative to international agreements? What is the option to mainstream media? Should we just take everything on Facebook from now on? What is the alternative to international agreements on climate change, on disarmament? What are we to replace the world order we have – which has served us well after World War II – with? What are we going to replace it with – that every country should just do what they want? I just don't understand what the world order is, so I hope the representative Amundsen will solve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1565	A migration agreement, or platform, as it is called, which is not legally binding, a platform that kicks in already wide-open doors, as what is in the agreement is apparently covered by existing laws in Norway – well, so we are there to be the platform already – do we really need it? An agreement everybody can say no to, without having any consequences at all, you can just not do any of the things that say there, why in all days should a be involved in anything like that? The term ‘non-legally binding’ is used extensively in this agreement, or platform. It seems quite harmless. However, others point out that this can be of little importance in practice. Professor Eivind Smith, among other things, says:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘There are many examples that decisions that are not legally binding on Norway may also be given several weights in legal reasoning.’ He thus confirms that Norwegian law can give legal force to non-binding opinions, and mentions, as an example, the UN Children's Committee, which does not have legal status. He also states that it is difficult to predict how such a text can be used in political reasoning. On the one hand, it is clear that this is not legally binding. On the other hand, it is concerned that it is so important that Norway should be involved. Then again my question is, Why? It is expressed, including by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that the platform respects Norwegian interests. What are Norwegian interests? If that is the people's interests, the people's opinion should be heard. I think very many in Norway do not know what the agreement is, or have ever heard of the agreement, but those who have heard about it have let themselves be heard – loud and clear. Perhaps, then, as the people's representatives, we should listen? It is said that the agreement, as I said, is not binding, but nevertheless there are several places where ‘we commit ourselves to’. We commit ourselves, and we commit ourselves. Then there must be something obligatory. Norway is also expected to follow up on these commitments. If we don't want to get into a bit of a boring situation with the other people on the deal, or the platform. I guess we'll lose some status or get a little bit confused in some areas. No, this agreement should stay a long way from Norway. It's not good for Norway. Moreover, those who already drop what is in the agreement will continue to do so. There is no intention to sign, and that is not good for Norway. But signing the agreement — or the platform — may give goodwill in other contexts, at international level.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1585	I'm just going to comment on some of the proposals that are available. In the case of helicopters, there is a limited resource for personnel, so it is not possible to say yes to a counter-terror capacity of the special forces and at the same time have nine helicopters on Bardufoss. That's the dilemma we're facing. We choose to develop a counter-terror capacity of the special forces. That's the thing. Then we've compensated in the north with civil capacity and with other capacities, so we mean we're balancing it as best we can, but we're open that it's a limited resource. In the case of the Army, we're going to move the land power to Finnmark, and we're going to increase the operational capacity of the battalions. Let's do that, for example. by relocating the recruiting school, by having more admissions and by having a longer protection obligation. So we don't have room for both the 2nd battalion and the recruiting school for the Army on Shield now. We increase the capacity of the battalions, we have a dedicated recruiting school. This is to have a better operational land power. It's a grip. If we don't do it with the 2nd battalion, we start to go on chords with the investment in Finnmark and the increased bet in the 2nd battalion. So the questions about it with the workshops. In the long-term plan, we said we should have flexibility, we should have greater cooperation with the civil sector, we should have as much operational capacity as possible, and we should have as good maintenance as necessary to get it. The fact that the head of defence is investigating different solutions is absolutely correct, he should. I experience very often that there are politicians in this room who are concerned with the independence of the head of defence. Then we must also allow the head of defence to investigate and present his position on these questions. And this is complex, because it's about both sea, land and air -- very different systems, very different weapons programs, very different maintenance systems. Some, such as F-35, involves national and international industry in general for maintenance, while when we come all the way down to repair cars, we can look at the appropriateness of it. It has to be a good economy. I don't think the Chief of Defense will have a position that puts the crews in jeopardy. The head of defense is my chief professional counsellor, and I am quite sure that the advice he comes with, the position he comes with, takes the safety of the crews into account in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1598	Maybe I'll start with the guy who's following me on the list of speakers, the representative Amundsen, because he said in his post that the Central Party is not sticking to the content of the UN migration platform. No, it doesn't, because we haven't got a case from the government that we in Stortinget are going to handle. No case has been submitted. We received a very tidy, thorough and good briefing from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We appreciate it, and it's been called for, because there's a debate in the public space that seems to be built on facts and not on many different preferences. For that very reason, that we don't have a thing and only register the disagreements that are internal to the government, where the Progress Party thinks something and the Right is something completely different, it's not easier to stick to the content of the matter, of course – although fortunately we have a government council that I think has a pretty good overview of the content, which she has in most other cases, it's to be praised. For the same reason, the Center Party is not going to vote with the Progress Party today, because there is not a theme for voting in this Chamber. We have not received anything, and we have not entered the content so that we have a basis for it. So we can't talk about anything like that either. It's the government's domain. The Minister of Defence said in his speech that the government is strengthening the Heimevartel in its draft budget. It is quite free and bold when they cut the number of Homeland soldiers by 5,000 in their budget. That proposal was modified, so one added 2,000, but still there's a cut of 3,000. They're working to put down the 2nd Battalion on Shield, which will cut the small army we have, with 1,000 soldiers. It's not exactly the big strength. I believe that the Chief of Defense and the analysts in Defense are also very clear that our defense actually needs to be strengthened in the number of soldiers. We have a little defense. In addition to the purchase of much equipment and miscellaneous — and that is important enough — we need, in fact, a more extensive defence in terms of human competence and soldiers, simply. I have a question, which I hope the Minister for Defence can answer before we close the debate, and it is: When will the report on the Alliert receive? We haven't cleared that up yet. He should have come too far and have been postponed several times. Now I'm really excited to hear what time we can expect the matter to finally come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1611	The population of the top ten migrants to Europe in 2017 is expected to increase by more than three times the total population in northern and western Europe by the year 2100. It's not solved by moving people from the third world to Europe. It must be said that this is not what you want, but it is the reality that you set out with the United Nations Migration Platform – several roads entering Europe. There are, therefore, strong forces outside Europe that have worked to achieve this, including these NGOs with their unrealistic approaches to immigration policy. It is not, therefore, as the representative Martin Kolberg puts it, that foreign cultural immigration into Norway is profitable. It should be well proven and well explained that that is not the case. It has a very high social cost for Europe and Norway. So one cannot rely on that policy to continue to work. That is why we need to control our borders, which is why we need to control Norwegian immigration policy, and we are not going to give up the right of governance. I also remember the representative Kolberg’s position of labels on people from the Progress Party who have been to the pulpit today. He uses a slightly special term; he speaks of reactionary nationalism. I think it's especially that you use that kind of characteristics instead of discussing content. I would think it was Stortinget's task first and foremost to take care of Norwegian interests. That's why we've been chosen here. That's why we're representatives in the national parliament, and that's what's our first task. It should be allowed to cheer up in Norway even when it is not purging. Then to the representative Jette F. Christensen: I don't understand what she's talking about. So I haven't used the term mainstream media. If I were to comment on it at all, I would have used the term old media, because it's okay to use Norwegian words. The either-or-world performance she's drawing up, I don't recognize myself in either. It is right and important to have international cooperation, to solve international issues where necessary, but it is not the only solution in all matters, and we have gone too far in using international instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1622	The Labour Party has been involved in the 2 percentage points of this debate, in line with the government. But the big difference between the government and the Workers' Party is supposed to be the 400 million. kr that the Workers' Party adds extra to its alternative budget. With respect to reporting, it does not give an answer to the decimal point of the defence budget in relation to gross domestic product. We have a defense budget of 59 billion. kr, and when the Workers' Party makes such a small increase, it does not make the large impact on the fraction of which the Workers' Party is obviously concerned. This objective shall be achieved by 2024. The Wales decision says you should move towards it, and that's exactly what the government has done since it took over the Department of Defence offices. How did you do that? Yes, among others. by having a defence budget now in place to compensate for the defence-specific cost increase. It was a disaster that the defense was inside. The purchasing power of the defence budget was gradually eaten up, so that investments, structure and appropriations were not linked. The Workers' Party, through its proposal to keep the helicopters on Bardufoss, has also placed itself in a position to respond to how the Special Forces will now be able to implement their anti-terrorism response and increase helicopter capacity. I can't see that the Workers' Party has given more money. The Chief of Defense pointed out in the 2015 helicopter study that if the special forces were to have the helicopter capacity they needed in the first place, nine SOF helicopters had to be acquired for a sum of 4.5 billion. kr. This is the option that the Workers' Party is now faced with, and I cannot see any trace of that money. Fighters, yes – if you want to supply the tanks, the Workers' Party must also be prepared to turn up 4.5 billion. kr more on the defence budget only for tanks by 2025. This is an investment of at least 4.5 billion. kr. Finally, I have not registered, either in notes or in debate, that the Workers' Party has refused to move the basic military training out of the department and to Skold. It's part of the land-use agreement. The consequence of this – if the working party wants to have a configuration level of almost 100 pst. – is that the operating costs of the 2nd Battalion increase by 300 million. kr per year, and EBA investments of 500 million are needed. kr. These funds are also lacking in the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1635	I record that the Minister of Defense is not aware that there is a link between resource use on foreign war operations and down-priority of preparedness in general and object security in Norway. It sounds as if the Minister of Defence is not aware of the publication A defence of change, the Chief of Defence's professional military council, where this connection is explicitly pointed out. It really gives a lot of cause for concern, but the good news is that this information is simply available. So let me read the verbs from page 4 of a defense in a change: ‘The defence has been transferred in the last 20 years from a mobilization defence to an intervention defence.’ This is the first sentence of the foreword from the Chief of Defense. And that's really what I referred to in the line to the Minister of Defence. Although the transition from a defensive mobilization defence to a defence ready to participate in the war of attack by other major powers has not been debated as it should, the consequences are great. One of the consequences concerns preparedness. I quote from Bruun-Hanssen's foreword in the same publication: «At the same time, long-term exposures to operations have been at the expense of preparedness at home.» So it's black on white. I must say that I am surprised that the Minister of Defense says he does not know what the head of defence writes here. This year's defence budget actually suggests that the government does not take into account the fact that there is such an obvious context. The budget says that the government downgrades the configuration rate to 2nd Battalion on Skjold to save money. At the same time, trustees in the Defence Department say that there is a lack of resources to maintain essential functions. Nevertheless, the government budgets to spend over 1 billion. kr on war operations abroad, and several of those operations are under the leadership of the United States. I do not fully understand – and I think many people agree with me – how this can be called prioritizing preparedness and defence of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1656	Women and men whom we send out in the field on missions from Norway should be safe and have equipment that works. Therefore, maintenance in the Defence is a central part of the operational capability of the Defence. For example, at Elverum, the skilled professionals are working to ensure that the Army's weapons and vehicle are fully functional when soldiers are going to field. Their task is simply to ensure that the equipment is clear before you go out on a mission, that it is clear if you need to mobilise quickly, but also that employees at the workshop are actually in the field. It is an integral part of the operational capability of the defence. It is therefore alarming that the Right Party and the Advance Party jump so fast over that point, because this is about how the Defence should work – both at home and outside. Privatisation of cleanness has been seen to have had significant consequences. Quality has decreased, costs have increased. The maintenance of vehicles and weapons at the workshop is at least as advanced and a task that requires us to have skilled professionals in place. For the Workers' Party, it is clear that the knowledge of the skilled professionals must also be part of the defence's ability to operate both at home, if necessary, and on mission. It's knowledge that gives us other security. Therefore, it is worrying that the proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV who say no to privatisation seems to be put to the vote later this evening. But we're going to move on to have a defense that has both equipment and professionals that can help them solve the task on behalf of all of us, can be dealt with in a proper way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1667	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1672	I see that the debate is getting a little jumpy, but I want to comment just very quickly on Kolberg's some pompous play on reactionary nationalism. No, the Progress Party does not want to reverse the clock, but we want to protect our country, and we want to defend national interests. And to the representative Jette F. Christensen, who asks what the alternative is. I took up alternatives in my post. I talked about NATO, and I talked about the EEA agreement – with some restrictions. There are opportunities for international cooperation when Norway’s interests are first identified. This agreement does not put Norway’s interests first. That is why the United Nations is unsuitable in this matter. That's what we're saying. This is not to say that the UN is always inappropriate, but in this case the UN is unsuitable. So to the representative of Navarsete, who says she has no cause, she can't discuss, she has no cause, poor. But the representative said no to the debate. The centre party would not have a debate. You'll get it. You may not get the papers in time, but there are papers in this case. If you were interested in getting involved, you could have a debate, but you voted it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1682	A council must give visions and describe the long lines in the area for which he is responsible, and here it applies to Defence. He has to make sure that the money we give in this room is used in a good way that provides good operational capacity. And then the Chief of Defense will have to plan, implement and control. That's the way the division of labour must be. The Riksrevision's critical report on object protection, which was debated quite a long time here in Stortinget, concluded that the capacity we have in the Home Office is not too large. When we in the Center Party say that it should definitely be increased to 45,000 – and maybe in the long term to 50,000 – it's a very cheap investment. That's something you should look at. In the case of ‘seaside security measures’, which have suddenly become a concept that replaces the Sjöheimeverterung, there is also a fluffy mention of an organisation you have chosen to put in the drawer by saying that you are correcting it with some safety measures at sea. If we look at important objects with seaside in Norway, and perhaps especially the civil objects, the Sjöheimeverterten had its mission right in the interaction they had with the security forces on land. We want the Sjöheimewertel to be reestablished. As for the light infantry battalion on Skjold, I heard carefully what the minister said. They say that you replace it with a recruiting school and fill up the capacity with that kind of business. To say that it replaces a standing operational department must be incorrect. When you look at Finnmark, I'm 100 pst. agree that what is being put on there is very good. It is clear that the department located in Nord-Troms, close up to the Finnish border, needs to be seen in conjunction with it. That's quite the right bet. Recruitment schools can be used anywhere. A standing department is where there is a threat. In the case of helicopters, what we've been thinking about in our budget is giving more money to train aircraft personnel, so that the helicopter capacity can be used in a better way, and then you can make sure that you have capacity both on Bardufoss and on Back.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1695	The representative Audun Lightbox has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1700	A brief explanation of vote at the end, since there are some loose proposals that have been distributed: in the case of proposal No. 13, from the Progress Party, we do not regard it as a serious proposal on the UN migration platform. It is only a proposal that comes now because the Progress Party in the government slept in the hour when it was still possible to ask the Stortingen for advice in that matter. I find reason to stress that I do not understand that the Storting is considering the reality of that matter today. As regards proposal No: 15, from Red, SV is going to vote against it. We share a lot of the intention behind this proposal, but we have our own proposal that is about stopping the booking of those fighter planes that are still possible to stop ordering. As regards proposal No: 16, from the Workers' Party, we see that the Workers' Party now says the same thing as SV has said before, that there should be nine Bell helicopters on Bardufoss. That is good, and that proposal will be voted for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1709	There has been a strange debate to follow with regard to the UN migration platform. When you hear the debate here today, it seems like more politicians and more parties are doing everything they can to avoid debating the content of the matter. It seems that more people want to rise above those who have actually elected us, and do not take seriously the concern that is out there among the people around this matter. I have previously heard the representative Martin Kolberg raise the issue that the Stortinget should discuss several major issues of principle that are of great value. At the same time, several of them define this platform, or the agreement, as a framework for future migration, but they do not want the Great Britain to address the framework for future migration, one of our greatest questions. That's weird. I also registered that the representative Lysbakken in his previous post characterised the proposal of the Advance Party as an unprofessional proposal. He thinks the debate does not belong here. But then I would like to remind you that on 7 July 2017, a majority in the United Nations adopted a resolution recommending a ban on nuclear weapons. Norway did not join it. Against this background, the Socialist Left promoted a proposal in this Chamber that Norway should be investigated in order to actually agree to this nuclear ban. The majority discussed the matter on 8 February this year. The Socialist Left Party thought it was good to discuss this, the Labour Party thought it was good to discuss it – yes, so the same parties thought it was good to take decisions that instructed the government to investigate the consequences of a Norwegian accession to this. But in another case, the one we are now discussing, the United Nations Migration Platform, uses the formalist arguments and does not want to discuss it. I think it's a pity, because, as I said, this is a matter that concerns many people. This is one thing that several professors and others are clear on the framework for future migration. Unfortunately, only the Progress Party in this Chamber chooses to take people seriously, who choose to say no to an agreement that will be used in the future for a policy that will not benefit Norway. I hope and continue to encourage each representative to vote later today to ensure that Norway retains the right of self-determination as to the kind of migration policy we are going to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1720	The Central Party believes that no matter where you live in Norway you should be safe and that together we should be able to be sure that Norwegian sovereignty can be defended both in war and in crisis. In the Central Party's alternative budget proposal, we are presenting an emergency package of a total of 3.3 billion. kr. We do that because we – and people – feel that Norwegian preparedness is in crisis. The government has, among other things: Over several years, training and deprioritizing all necessary investments in the Army and the Home Office, such as: upgraded tanks and helicopter stand. The defence of Norway is characterised by the fact that the government is constantly in arrears and that important investments are not being launched by the Stortinget. The government delayed a proposal for a new long-term defence plan, and here the government proposed to postpone all investment in the Army and the Home Office pending the rescue. It was very disappointing when it finally came, and again the message was that important investments should be pushed out in time. Defence capabilities are fresh – today’s critical capacity. Speaking of fresh products: it is well known that the situation is critical for the maritime patrol aircraft and for Norway’s monitoring capacity at sea in the north. Airwing on Andøya has been allocated 8 million. kr to maintain the competence of the department. This pot is assumed to be insufficient for the staff to continue in the department until next year, as assessed locally. Three years ago, an estimate was made that 30 million. kr would have been more realistic. The main challenges are known as technical personnel. The planes are not repaired in time, and they stand outdoors. There are too few people who can carry out repair and maintenance, and the government's response is that new staff will be added to the department. Positions are partially staffed, so in theory they may have personnel, but the new staff is not checked out and therefore cannot do the job they are going to do. Those who are qualified stop. The personnel on duty from command and war schools will end as soon as the duty period is over. This is serious. As is now the case, after New Year Norway will not have an airborne search and rescue capacity beyond the rescue helicopters in the north, in addition to not having the normal MPA activity. Orion is the only capacity that can cover the large area, all the time we don't have full capacity – and we're never going to have it – on the NH90 helicopter to the Coast Guard. Andøya has about 30 missions a year in search and rescue where other capacities do not extend. This must be seen in the context of the lack of capacity occurring as long as the NH90 is not in the air. The situation is mildly critical. It would have been an advantage if the Minister of Defence recognised the challenges more openly in order to signal whether or not the government takes this seriously, and thus might prevent too many from resigning in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1739	The representative Jette F. Christensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1744	The representative Wiborg wondered why it is only the Progress Party who is talking about the agreement that the Minister of Foreign Affairs presented this morning. That is because this debate is the budget debate of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. But it's been a show. The representative Ørsal Johansen said that most of the people he knew about had not heard about this agreement, but that many who have heard about it said they are against it. A lot of representatives from the Progress Party have been up and calling on the people's opinion on a matter that has not been voted on. That's interesting, because when, as a government party, you rely on the active public opinion – always – there will never really be any legitimate opposition. This is a quite undemocratic move. So I just want to say that today I've learned the expression "old media". I've Googled that, and it's defined as traditional media that bases press ethics on both their work and their certificate of publication. I suggest we continue with that kind of media.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1751	The representative of Wiborg is speaking simply falsely. It would have been possible to ask for an investigation into what this platform could contribute to, but the Workers' Party has not in any context ordered the government to vote in favour of one or the other UN Resolution. It hasn't happened, it's on the government's table. This has been a demonstration of how wrong it can be when the Prime Minister does not put his foot down. She lets the Minister of Foreign Affairs come to Stortinget and be humiliated by FrPs after FrPs, who use the foreign debate in Stortinget to mark themselves in a matter they don't know they're getting the Storting on – a matter they've been involved in deciding. Now it has to be a kind of show where they can promote their policies in this room. It's simply spooky. The right has tried to bring in the Progress Party to make them responsible. They failed. On the contrary, we see that the right does not have the ability to put down the foot in this hall, but on the contrary goes far in defending the progress of the party, which we have not seen in this room for a very long time. Then I must also say that the representative of the Rivers has a rather problematic relationship with the truth. He says 400 million. kr extra on defense is a negligible sum. Well, we asked the Ministry of Defense what was going to happen to increase the proportion of defense, and that was 400 million. kr. I thought it was a pretty important signal that we went up – and not down. But if the Harek Rivers think this is so insignificant, he can simply vote for it. That would at least be in line with NATO's commitments. We have also spent money on helicopters. We have spent money on the pre-project for tanks. But when this government is unable to deliver on what is our clear NATO obligations, it is simply embarrassing. And if 400 million. kr is insignificant – I see that the Harek Rivers are now going to talk after me – is my challenge: vote for it! Then at least the proportion of defense doesn't go from 1.66 pst. in 2018 to 1.59 pst. in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1760	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1765	It's probably insignificant, in the sense that 400 million. do not extend in relation to the billion promises with which the Workers' Party has been out. It contributes too much, too little. It was actually the representative of Navarsete who made me take the floor – her suggestion that it is not bet on HV by this government. Then I dare remember that the government strengthened HV by 191 million. SEK in 2017 and increases by 212 million. kr in 2019. HV gets new vehicles and new uniforms. HV in the north is given new armoured field vehicles and light air protection. All over the country, HV should exercise as much as HV districts in North Norway. This is in stark contrast to what the Senterparte delivered to the government. The HV reserve was put down. HV didn't practice. The territorial structure did not exercise in 2009. The intervention force was reduced from 5,000 to 3,000 soldiers. [[The President clubs.]] The current HV policy...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1774	Time's up. The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1782	After the previous article, I got a note from the president that I want to express that I respect and understand. I'm sorry I used the term "God help me," because I shouldn't. Then I've told you. But in terms of the realities of this: Tybring-Gjedde says we have to defend our interests, and Wiborg says, "We're talking on behalf of the people." The reality is that this agreement is there to help Norway and the people. If you think it's possible to deal with this huge complex for the future without an international civilized legal order, you're simply wrong, the Progress Party is completely wrong. That's why I'm very happy that it's going down. Of course, it is a great paradox – via the President of the Minister for Foreign Affairs – that she is meeting a proposal from her own government partner in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1791	The representative Live Signe Navarsete has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1796	It may be appropriate to end this debate by saying what the Central Party will support the loose proposals that have been distributed. We will support the proposal No. 11 and Nos 14, by the Socialist Left Party, and proposal No. 16, from the Workers' Party. The other suggestions will not be supported. Finally, I would like to say that it is strange that the Progress Party uses the speaking time to discuss a platform where they could – if they wanted the opinion of the Stortinge in a matter that is the government’s business – get the government to file a case. If they wanted a vision, at least they had to provide a basis for debate. I have read the platform. I personally thought she was well worth speaking for, I support the government in it. But the party has not debated it, has no view here in this room, cannot afford to give [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1805	Time's up. The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1812	I notice that the attacks on the platform have gradually lost the sense that our foreign minister and our office have reserved themselves against the very points that the critics have highlighted. So I feel that there is a much greater consensus in this room about the realities of the matter. We also see that some countries that are normally very close to each other have assessed it differently. Some are outside, others have meant and done as Norway, that is to say, had strong reservations, which do not restrict national freedom of action. The Baltic countries are an example of this, two of which are in and out. So there's a little bit of this that we're being taught how impossible it is that there should be disagreement about larger questions. This is a small question, since it doesn't bind Norway, but I remember someone here in this room dreaming of forming a new government, a red-green government, with the participation of consistent opponents of NATO cooperation, and also from another party, who wants to prevent market access to 500 million. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1819	Time's up. The representative Per Willy Amundsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1826	Let me start by giving credit to the representative Kolberg. Although he's totally wrong, and even if it's proven wrong, what he's saying, he has at least an opinion about the United Nations migration platform. We haven't seen that much from the other opposition parties today. And that is very significant, because this has been a debate that has been about the process, about when to deal with it, about how to deal with it, about who to deal with it – but not about the content of the migration platform. I think that's sad. In particular, it is alarming that the Centre Party, which in all other respects is very concerned with national self-determination, is not involved in this matter. It was claimed by the representative Navarsete that well, we don't know enough about it. But then there is the excellent opportunity to make a proposal to ask the government to postpone its accession to the agreement pending further investigation. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] So you could have gotten that information. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1833	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1838	Thank you for finally being able to thank you for parts of the debate. Navarsese asked for the work on the base structure for the reception of allied forces. It's a work we're doing, and then we should notify it in Prop. 1st@item: inlistbox We don't get that, and the reason why that's why NATO is also dealing with this. We depend on NATO's plans to lay down our plans, and it's been a little delayed. Therefore, I cannot say when we get here, but we will come back to Stortinget with it when we have completed those assessments. Briefly to the representative from Red, who thought that the object protection was failing in Norway due to international operations: no, it is wrong. In the Chief of Defense's professional-military advice, he's talking about preparedness. Object protection is something else. Then I must be allowed to shoot in that it is nice that Red reads the defense chief's professional military advice. It is also in the light of the advice we are now building on a better defence to strengthen national security. So here we are completely in line with Red – surprisingly. Finally, to the representatives of the Center Party on the Home Protection and the Recruitment School, yes, we can have recruiting schools everywhere, that's absolutely true. I have opposed the proposals to move the recruiting school south, simply because I believe it is an important part of military training to learn what we are defending. That's why we have recruiting school in the north, in Skjold. Then, of course, those who are eager to discuss centralization can suggest that the Army's recruiting school be moved southwards. I would like to come back to this room and discuss such suggestions as well, if it should show up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1849	I'm not going to extend the debate, but I just want to answer some of the questions that have come. First to Jette F. Christensen: It's not right that we cut the support for UNRWA in 2019. On the contrary, in 2018 too, the support has increased significantly. By September we announced a new contribution of 64 million. So we're now up to 294 million. kr this year to UNRWA. They provide important basic services to the Palestinian population, as well as to others affected, in the neighbourhoods. So we don't have any intention of cutting that support for next year. Then I have to say that I am reacting very strongly to the fact that the representative Petter Eide is standing up violently because he believes that he has not received an answer to his question. I answered his question no later than a few hours ago. I also think it is striking that as soon as he had delivered this force ointment, he disappeared out of the hall and so cannot hear that I repeat the answer. As I said to the representative Petter Eide, it is not possible today to export weapons and ammunition to the United Arab Emirates. We've never allowed arms and ammunition to be exported to Saudi Arabia. We have made this clear both in writing and orally. I think it is also important to establish – unlike the representative Eide seemed to be basing – that there are no points of view that Norwegian material should have been used in the war in Yemen. I think it's important to keep those things apart. I also think it is very special that the representative Petter Eide believes we are giving a signal that Norway does not trust the peace negotiations. Rather, on the contrary – we actively support the peace negotiations, both those of the UN Special Envoy, Martin Griffiths, and not least what is now happening in Sweden. In conclusion, it has been claimed that we know what can happen if we signal decoration. We're going to do that, but we're not going to signal any decorations. We have today not asked Stortinget to take a decision on what is in the platform. This is and remains the prerogative of the government, but we have nevertheless wanted to inform the Storting, given that there has been debate also in Norway, although it has been very different from many other countries. Nevertheless, I register in the debate, and what I think is good to hear, that all parties, apart from the Progress Party – that have clearly reserved themselves, and have done so in the past, it is known, and it is open – support Norway's joining the Global Migration Platform, based on the argument that the government has led on why this is important and correct, while at the same time taking decisive reservations and giving explanations of vote, where we believe that we must interpret the platform, like the other country, in a way that we believe is the right one, and where we record that we have a great many countries with us in that interpretation. This applies, inter alia, to: the requirement for full freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1864	The representative Bengt Fasterale has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1870	Although I speak Baltic dialect, it is not said that I want all departments to go south. I made it clear in my first post that it is particularly important for Army departments that we have a powerful defense in the north. What was said in this debate was that if you were going to have a recruiting school at Skjold, it took so much of the capacity that you didn't have the opportunity to have other departments. What I said was that we have to keep an operational department, which the 2nd battalion has been, with light infantry and not putting it on the mob status. If there's room for recruiting school, it's got to be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1875	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 2-5. At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 6 and 7 are treated together. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1904	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five rows of replies be given after contributions from the main figures of the parties and seven rows of replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1917	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for good cooperation in the examination of the budget, and not least I would like to thank the Committee Secretary Berit Skovly for his good assistance to the Committee. It is a large budget that needs to be snorted together, and it requires flexibility and flexibility for all. This year's budget will ensure active labour market policies, a stronger social security network and well-functioning labour and welfare management. There is a great and important contribution to the budget of the Labour and Social Committee. The budgets submitted in recent years after the government has secured work, activity and conversion and contribute to sustainable welfare schemes. The budget we are now adopting is the second largest of the budgets of the committees. The budget of the Labour and Social Committee is now over 450 billion. kr. The enormous level should be a source of many of us. Do we spend the money right? Are there any welfare mechanisms that should be removed? Should any welfare arrangements be changed? Should we introduce new welfare schemes? We must always ask ourselves questions about whether the welfare society and our huge state budget reach those who need help the most, or whether we should make adjustments. That is why it is important that we all contribute to creating a climate of debate where we do not suspect each other's motives. I think we all in this room want to create the best possible society for everyone. We don't create a better society by doing everything the same way we did yesterday. Welfare systems, labour regulations and framework conditions need to be adapted to the society we have in 2019, not in 1970. I am therefore pleased that we have a government that also in this budget – and later in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party – ensures that the welfare arrangements for those who need it most are strengthened and improved. We continue the fight against poverty, and in particular we strengthen the fight against poverty with regard to children and young people. We strengthen the grant scheme to combat child poverty and continue to fight for the best possible growth conditions for all children regardless of their parents' finances. However, the fight against poverty is not solved by grants schemes, child welfare and other benefits alone. The fight against poverty is about enabling more people to live off their own jobs. As I always recall in these budget debates, we politicians are not creating the jobs. Business creates jobs, and our job as politicians is to facilitate business. Therefore, labour and social policy are also far more important than the budget chapters of the Labour and Social Committee. To maintain today's jobs and create new jobs helps us to have a government that has increased the transport budget by 75 pst. Then it helps that we have a government that has reduced the tax and tax burden by almost 25 billion. kr. This helps us to have a government that has strengthened the education system — and especially the professional sector. Then it helps us to have a government that reduces red tape and forms fields. Then it helps us to have a government that modernises the work environment law. Yes, it helps to have a government that looks forward, and not backwards. We see that the arrows are pointing in the right direction – Norway is heading in the right direction. An increasing number of enterprises and jobs are being created, a high level of business optimism is being reported. Unemployment has fallen significantly in recent years and is now at a low level. The employment rate is increasing. This clearly shows that the opposition's warnings about the party of progress in government have not proved to be correct. We continue with today's budget the efficiency of Norway, providing a modern and user-friendly hub and creating a good safety net for those who need it the most. Everyone in this room wants a good social security network that captures those who need help. The difference in this room goes between those who want to build a security network that keeps people stuck for the future, and those of us who want a security network that captures those who need help and support, but also a security network that helps them stand up on their own feet, as far as possible. It is a red thread in the government's policy that this budget continues and strengthens. It's about creating a society that's adapted to everyone, including those that aren't necessarily completely A4, those that have gaps in the CV. If we are to create such a society, we must also create flexibility and ability to see the individual, the needs and opportunities of the individual. This government has done so in several ways with regard to Nav, and we have done so once we have modernised the work environment law, made the door to the working life wider and wider. It is a policy that it is important that we continue to strengthen. But at the same time, it's important that we always, as I was inside, look at whether the welfare systems are adapted and help those who need help the most. For example, in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party, we are taking action to improve the car welfare system for a group of parents – a small group, well to mark – who have prodigious children, and have special needs. This government chooses to use the funds in the places we see that there are actually people who need help and help, and I'm proud of that. With this, it is an honour to present the draft budget of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1942	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1947	The majority decided, against the votes of the government parties, to impose severe restrictions on the rental legislation. At the same time, the size decided to entrust the government with the control and supervision of the new legislation. But in the budget, we do not see any sign of this being followed up – neither in instruments nor in resources. On the contrary, the Labour Inspectorate is actually weakened by the government's cut policy. We have to assume that serious businesses ensure compliance, but unprofessional actors who do not respect Norwegian law and who are largely based on cheap, foreign labour see that there is little risk of continuing as before. Why is it that the Progress Party and the government are not concerned with controlling labour immigration?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1952	The whole premise of the question is directly wrong. In fact, the representative of the Labour and Social Committee did not put Grande in the last period, but as I said instead, there is a red thread in much of what we have done. We have strengthened the fight against crime at work, we have set up the a-crime centres, we have increased the level of penalties for crime at work, we have made sure that the Labour Inspectorate is better equipped to open up the unprofessional by making the Labour Inspectorate more targeted in order to detect the serious cases. That's some of what we're doing. But there is still a lot to be done, including: It is still important to look at how the various public authorities talk together — much of the information provided by the Food Safety Authority may be of interest to the police — the information should go seamlessly all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1957	It is a mystery to me that cutbacks to the Labour Inspectorate over several years will lead to an increased effort against work crime. We look at the statistics for 2017 that there is less supervision than the year before. We also hear from employees in the Labour Inspectorate that the cut policy that the government is pursuing weakens the ability of the Labour Inspectorate to be the tool against a-crime that you want it to be. We have, on the part of the Labour Party, promoted a wide range of issues in the Stortinget that would have been able to regulate labour immigration better than today, but the Progress Party and the government parties are consistently opposed. How does the representative Wiborg see that the fight against a-krim should be strengthened when the Labour Inspectorate feels that the government is ticking?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1962	That's all wrong. This government has strengthened the fight against the crime of working life – I have framed several of the measures in place. The Labour Inspectorate has changed their practice by having more targeted checks and inspections; they go where there is the greatest chance of finding faults. The representative of Grande asks why we are voting against several of the Labour Party's proposals. It's because the Workers' Party doesn't have the ability to see how Norwegian working life actually is. Norwegian working life works essentially very well. The vast majority of businesses are serious and good. The vast majority of employees are doing well at work. It is then important that we do not take measures that destroy the good and serious part of Norwegian working life. We should also use the resources on the small part that doesn't run properly, because the unprofessional actors we're going to take. We're going to stop them, because they're a threat to the whole community, and not least to all the serious actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1969	One of the factors that makes foreign labour more competitive in relation to Norwegian labour force is that you can reduce wages and salaries, reduce employers' obligations compared to working in Norwegian pay and working conditions. Therefore, we promoted proposals and received a majority in the Grand Duchy for a strong tightening of rents. It was the Progress Party against. They clearly want to continue to thrive with poor pay and working conditions, which primarily lead to cheap, non-resident labour being replaced by Norwegian permanent employment. That is why, in the same way, we have made proposals to regulate the average calculation of working time precisely in order to limit the possibility of using cheap, foreign labour. Why is the Progress Party not willing to discuss the things that would actually have worked to regulate labour immigration and to ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1974	It's no secret that the Progress Party, for example. is in favour of a national minimum wage, which we have proposed to be investigated, but unfortunately only the Left has supported us in it. The Labour Party is against a national minimum wage. Then the representative asks why we are initially skeptical about several of the changes the Workers' Party went to the break for when it came to renting. The Progress Party believes it is good that people get a foot within the working life. We think it's better than that people should be completely out of work – let people try their way into work. It is also true that not everyone fits into the A4 model that the Workers' Party wants. Now, the Workers' Party is attacking the averaging of non-tariff locations. This would mean that people who might want to work one more hour, so that the next week can work a little less and thus have more time with their children – it is a model Workers' Party that will refuse them. I think it is nice that the Workers' Party does not have greater confidence in Norwegian workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1983	It is still a secret what is the Progress Party's proposal for national minimum wage. But I guess we'll see about that soon, maybe. My question is: the Progress Party is strongly opposed to the UN Global Migration Platform, a platform that also concerns labour migration. The United Nations platform is not legally binding on Norway. At the same time, both as a party and in the government, the Progress Party is a supporter of free labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries, a country where pay and working conditions are wretched in relation to Norway. These are legal obligations under the EEA Agreement. How do these two positions relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e1991	These are two very different things – but yes, it is true that the Progress Party is against the UN migration platform. We had a major debate on this earlier today, and it will also be a vote later today, when the representative Lundteg actually has the opportunity to decide whether he supports the migration platform, or whether he supports the view of the Progress Party – that we should have national autonomy over these issues. I also think that is a little strange, because I think more people in this room remember that the representative Lundtigen was out and wanted Norway to accept – it was probably over 100,000 new refugees. That was to be financed by reducing the salaries of public employees. I don't think it's a way to go. The Progress Party wants a strict immigration policy, but if some Swedes and Danes want to move to Norway to work, we find it unproblematic as long as Norwegian law and Norwegian pay and working conditions apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2000	The representative Wiborg speaks beautifully about the fight against poverty, or child poverty, as the representative calls it. The question then is: social welfare recipients are often deprived of child welfare; the child supplement for disabled people is cut, and it is graduated and thus cuts the care allowance for parents with seriously ill children. How does life improve for children in poor families with less money for their parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2005	Here, there are also several premises that are directly wrong. Let's take the care money first, which is an important matter that the Storting discussed now on Monday, and that has been discussed in several rounds. This government, along with the Christian People's Party, has significantly strengthened the care arrangement. We spend more than twice as much money on the care money system now as when the Socialist Left Party put in government. There are over twice as many children who come under the care scheme as when the Socialist Left Party ruled. When the Socialist Left Party ruled, the Advance Party, together with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, promoted proposals to strengthen the care system. There was an SV vote against, as they did not want to spend money on it, but wanted to give priority to that money in other areas. I must say I am very surprised when the Socialist Left here dares to make such claims, all the time it is under this government that we have received a historic boost for the care scheme. And it's going to continue to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2010	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2015	There is a lot of good things going on in Norwegian working life, which the representative Wiborg also had to do, but it's enough to get hold of. Let me give you three examples. What all of these three examples have in common is that it's possible to do something about it. It is then a matter of having a policy to get people to work and to strengthen the serious employers. It's the Labour Party. The first example is that although we are one of the most equal countries in the world, women still work more part-time than men do, and within health and care, the part-time section is the highest in the Nordic region. In Finland, they have almost no part-time, in Sweden and Denmark, those who work part-time in health care, often higher job rates, up to 80 pst. This is what it's all about. We have seen money for a full-time project, so that municipalities can make their own bets, as the Labour Party has done, among other things. in Bergen, Malvik and Sauherad. We have also wished to give the same guidance signal to healthcare professionals: that full-time work should be given priority because we know that in that sector, ordinary workers are the most exposed to small job rates. We want more people working, we want to strengthen the workline, and we want to show it in practical policy. Similarly, even if there are lighter times in the Norwegian economy, one in three workers is still out of work. In fact, the AKU unemployment rate is above the average for the last 20 years, and the number of young unemployed has increased by four new people every single working day during the Solberg government. Many of these kids can work, they want to work, they want to work, but they don't get the opportunity to do it. This is also a matter of doing something about it. The Workgroup suggests a range of actions to strengthen the taskbar: a reform of young people's activities 2 000 more labour market measures a reform of skills for people at work, and for people who want to work, together with the social partners, where we also saw money for a fund of 100 million skills. kr a professional billion during a four-year period, which would have been able to update the equipment in schools, to have a higher apprenticeship and more student practice, so that more people complete and more people get into work It would have strengthened the taskbar, giving more people more possibilities. My third and last example is the development of social dumping and labour crime. The government itself writes in its budget papers that the crime of working life has been more serious, more extensive and more complex. They also write that he has been more demanding to be offered. At the same time, resources to the Labour Inspectorate have in practice been reduced through repeated so-called efficiency cuts over five years. We in the Labour Party are too efficient, but we are opposed to weakening the work force of the Labour Inspectorate. In practice, they have been cut so much that they have also reduced the number of supervision of 25 pst. Rather, the working party proposes to increase the funds for the Labour Inspectorate. We have also proposed more money to the Centres for the Crime of the Workplaces and to the Institute for Petroleum Control. A well-organised working life is also the first-line defence against unprofessional employers. We are therefore concerned that the degree of organisation has been so low in the private sector, where he is under 40 p.m., and in some industries he is also considerably lower than this. We suggest, among other things: a doubling of the trade union deduction, and we have been working on a clean-up action in the sectors of the labour market which are particularly delayed, with proposals for tightening up the use of hired labour and a ban on zero-hour contracts, which are agreed and which will be put into effect in the new year. We are concerned, then, that the government has not given the Labour Inspectorate the mandate they need to oversee illegal tenants, and that the Labour Inspectorate has also not been given the means or opportunities to impose the necessary sanctions in time for these changes. In other words, even if there's a lot that's good, there's a lot of things to do about our working life. In the Labour Party we have suggested to do something about it. The right control has not shown their existence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2047	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2052	I am one of those who share the Workers' Party's commitment to young people. The last working party put in government, they introduced a waiting guarantee that was never met, a non-performance cancer guarantee, and a non-content guarantee of dignity. Now I notice that the job guarantee proposal from this summer has become an activity reform with job guarantee for young people born after 1990, which is graded disability benefit or 100 pst. Disadvantages. This includes, inter alia: the obligation on municipalities to secure these young jobs, including through their own employment in the municipality. Then I wonder, how many are there that this reform might apply to among the young people we have today? And what problems does the Workers' Party see as 100 pst. disabled young people are required to perform in municipal services?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2057	I have noticed that representatives from the government party need to raddle with the proposal for activity reform for young people. I would like to remind you that this is a reform that we have developed together with the professional community in the field, among other things. The health centre and the Fafo, and professionals from there, have made very clear recommendations that a young person who is on the way out in disability, close to the workplace as early as possible, and that, for example, setting a job guarantee is one way to do it. That is the background to the proposal. Nor is it right for the Nordby Lunde representative to try to make it clear that the activity reform for young people has changed its character this summer. She's been the same all along. It is a matter of, among other things, Young people on redundancy pay must feel that their work right hand is stronger – it has no success – that they come closer to work, that they have a guarantee at the other end, and not least that they are better off than 100 pst. disability, lower levels of disability and job opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2064	While the Right is following up these young people with closer follow-up through the Nav and during the Redeployment Period, so that they will not fall completely outside, we have also checked how many of these are going to apply. It's at the base of 300 kids. Then I also hear that the representative, like us, is concerned about organized working life. According to the YS Labour Barometer for 2018, luckily only at the lower edge of 1 pst. that those who are not professionally organised are not because of the fear of the employer. That's good. But the whole 30 pst. states that trade unions do not take their interests into account. 36 pst. they believe that they are too closely linked to political parties. Then it might not be the tax deduction that is the problem. What does the Labour Party really think can be done to resolve political ties that prevent people from organizing, and to represent the interests of ordinary workers to a greater extent than the workers say they think the trade unions do?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2071	I do not support the speech of the representative Nordby Lunde when it concerns the Workers' Party's activity reform for young people. She is solely responsible for that number. When it comes to the issue of individual employee organisations and any ties they may have with a political party, I almost have to remind you that the employee organisations themselves are free to pursue their priorities. If it is so that there is an employee organisation that thinks there is some political party that takes better care of the interests of employees than, for example, it is. Right does, maybe Right should take it as a signal rather than try to suspect it. Some of the workers' party I think is important in addition to doubling the trade union deduction, is actually getting the order of the parts of the working life where one sees that the level of organisation is low. Within those parts of the private sector where there is a low level of organisation, one also knows that there are many contracts with unemployed people in the labour market, a high level of paid, high degree of temporaryity, a high level of so-called zero-hour contracts. There is also something that creates unresponsiveness and makes it dangerous to be organized.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2078	That is very interesting in the draft budget for the Workers' Party. I register, among other things: that they take up again the proposal on tax relief for one group of people, but criticise tax relief for the wide range of the population. This government, together with the Christian People’s Party – and the Left then – introduced the obligation of activity for young social welfare recipients. It's been a solid success, it's the feedback we get from local politicians from all parties. We see that the numbers are good, it helps to help more young people out of the Nav system and into education and work. The Labour Party voted against it as it is known when we dealt with it in this Chamber and debated it against, among other things. signed on News of the Day eighteen and in several debates. My question is: Does the Workers' Party now realise that they were wrong, and will the Workers' Party support an extension of the obligation of activity to apply to more than just young social welfare beneficiaries?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2088	I am proud that in the Labour Party we prioritise tax relief for workers, quite ordinary workers, rather than doing what the right government stands for, that is, what is tax-free for all, the richest. When it comes to issues related to the obligation of activity related to social assistance recipients, the great difference between the Labour Party and the right is that the right-hand side imposes obligations, but does not impose rights and opportunities. In the spring of 2018, the Labour Party will present a proposal on the obligation of activity and the right of activity for social assistance recipients. It was the Progress Party against it, they thought it was a bad idea. They would have duties without rights. That's what separates us when it comes to the view of social assistance and how to provide assistance so that people can actually get back into work. From the Labour Party's point of view, we believe that a both should set requirements and set up for people, not just set requirements, as the Progress Party thinks one should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2095	At least it is good that the Workers' Party is partly honest that they want to give tax relief to employees. The reality is that they want to give tax relief to some employees. The Progress Party wants to give tax relief to all workers, and we also think that the country's pensioners deserve tax relief, not tax increases, which the Workers' Party has actually proposed in its budgets and tax arrangements. With regard to the discussion about the obligation of activity, I record that the representative Hadia Tajik chooses not to answer my question. Of course, the Progress Party voted against the Workers' Party's proposal in 2018 to introduce an activity obligation for young social assistance recipients all the time we had already introduced it. We decided this back in 2015 – the Labour Party then voted against it. The question is simple and straightforward: does the Labour Party realise that it was wrong for them to vote against and strongly argue against activity aid for young people receiving social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2104	I would like to remind the representative that 'I'm not a parliamentary expression enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2109	The Labour Party's view is still that it's right to make demands, to have expectations for people, and to set them up for people when they need it. Therefore, we believe that it is right to have both the activity obligation and the right to exercise. If the representative of Wiborg thinks that the way they have chosen is the right way to go, he should follow up by giving the municipalities the means they need. They need a better economy to follow up the social welfare recipients. They would get that with the Workers' Party's alternate budget; they would get 3 billion. kr more to walk with to follow people in a proper way – so that people get the opportunities they need. Elles receives both ordinary workers and pensioners better with the Workers' Party's alternative budget than with the Right and Progress Party's budget proposals. So the way in which the representative Wiborg tries to present the tax bill to the Workers' Party is not correct. It's the richest who would pay the most, unlike what's happening today, where those who have the most from before also get the most out of tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2116	Hadia Tajik mentioned several examples of what was most important to the Workers' Party. One of them was full-time/part-time. She also mentioned several municipalities that had solved this, but she did not mention the municipality of Trondheim, which I know very well – I have been a municipal council there before. The Labour Party has been running for the last 15 years, and the challenges have not been solved. What about turn adjustment? Is there something the representative could see as being a little more liberal? And is it like that, for example. could have introduced more voluntary tournaments and perhaps a little more frequent weekend work in order to solve this challenge, that there is no room for full time in the systems you have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2121	Many municipalities are already working well with this problem, and not all municipalities have a goal. The representative of Gunne is absolutely right. In order to be able to take the necessary local initiatives, a little incentive may also be needed to achieve them. In our alternative budget, one of the money is set at its own full-time pot for the municipalities, from which Trondheim or others can search and use to find good solutions locally. What I mean is the right way to go – that one has the necessary local cooperation both with the workers and with the employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2128	Would the representative Tajik like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2133	I will. I take up the suggestions the Labour Party has on its own or together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2138	Then the representative Hadia Tajik has drawn up the proposals to which she referred. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2145	This autumn there have been many debates about who contributes to a warmer or colder society, and those debates seem to be quite polarized from outside. All sides are probably contributing to it, but to me it really seems a bit like an extension of the communication strategy from 2013, when Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg warned about a more brutal Norway with a blue government. There were so many postings from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV about what they feared, that we created a "fear wall" in the Right Secretariat with all the essays. There was fear of newspaper death, school death, actual death through the competitive launching of trains, equality policy in reverse, backbiting in the homo-combat, slumped municipal crates, bullying North Norway as part of the country, to mention something. My personal favorite was the member of the Trade Union, where under the heading «When the blue controls» it was a picture of a trust chosen, with the subtitle «Smile brave while the roses die in Frognerparken». The budget debates in the autumn are still reminiscent of the fear wall. Last week, I heard from the pulpit that the government is conducting targeted attacks on human dignity and creation – targeted attacks on human dignity and creation. It is possible that this is compensated by unreasonable self-crusade from the government parties, but I don't think so. Everything doesn't go on the rails. We constantly find faults and shortcomings, whether social arrangements are not working according to purpose, or vulnerable people falling outside. Even when things are going well, we need to constantly change to preserve the welfare society we have. My biggest fear is that today, while we're still probably at the top of the oil age, we're just continuing to expand the state, repressing the good forces of society and replacing them with state instruments. We know this from three perspective messages that are not sustainable in the long term. At some point, well-intentioned arrangements will have to be changed. It is not unsocial to make changes to schemes that do not function properly, do not target the target population or have expired because in the meantime we have either put in place better schemes or build up public services. But all the changes in this will be marked as unsocial and petty. I wonder what it's going to be like when, in the future, we really have to start giving priority. In 2013, the level of taxation in Norway was higher than today, hospitals were longer, and there were 15,000 more poor children in Norway. In other words, increased taxes do not necessarily increase well-being. This government has both reduced the level of taxation and reduced hospital queues. There doesn't have to be a contradiction between tax relief and well-being. We have not yet managed to reduce the number of low-income families with child poverty, but we know that immigration is one of the main reasons why this proportion has increased and stayed up. The most important way out of poverty is not social security, but work. For this reason, we provide labour rights for the introduction programme and increased Norwegian training. We make it easier for immigrants to use their skills through both authorisation schemes and training provision for those who have been trained. The difference between those who have and those who don't have is a job to go to. Then we also need to ensure good industrial policies that create profitable jobs for those we qualify. We see that unemployment is falling and employment is increasing. Then it's easier to include more people in the world of work. The answer to increased differences can not be to increase social benefits for those outside the labour market but to help them get into it. Competence reform, qualification of the labour market, language and employment training are the answer to increasing differences, not the doubling of social security and benefits. That work is well under way, with the strategy against child poverty from 2015, the competence reform from last year, the inclusion of this summer and the integration strategy that we presented earlier this autumn. It's not the sum of social benefits via Nav that makes Norway a warmer society, but how many we can include in small and large communities. The community is there to strengthen the individual and help us realize our own potential, not the other way around. As I said, the most important factor in getting to work is completing school. Nevertheless, too many young people do not complete the schooling. The right will continue to increase the quality of Norwegian school and ensure that more complete and exist. Youth activities of the government help bring more young people into the labour market. It ensures that all young people under 30 years of age receive tailor-made follow-up at Nav after eight weeks of leave. From 2017, we introduced an activity obligation for young people under 30 years of age in order to increase their chances of getting into work and becoming self-employed. But when we make demands, we also set up, with work training, CV writing and job applicant training. The obligation of activity has contributed to more people getting into work, education or other activity, and the Right also wants to expand it to them over 30 years. After five years of civil government, the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work states that Norway is still at the forefront in terms of occupational health and safety standards. Nine out of ten employees are satisfied with their job. Increasingly, heavy physical stresses and risks at work are less likely to occur. You have 9 pst. by Norwegian employees had sick leave of more than 14 days in 2013, this was reduced to 5 pst. in 2016. The outside community in Norway is going down. The proportion of Nordics in health-related benefits falls, while fewer young people are in neither employment nor education. Norway is one of the least economically unequal countries. Income, quality of life and living conditions are fairly evenly distributed, and the provision of public services helps to balance inequalities. Health cows have been reduced and more are treated more quickly. The government will use the rise in the Norwegian economy to include more people in the labour market. More market contacts in Nav provide closer contact between Nav and employers. Changes to the Nav payroll scheme during 2019 will make it easier to apply it to employers who want to recruit from the target groups of inclusion. The aim is to increase the use of the pay subsidy scheme. Increased focus on individual job support contributes to the close follow-up of more people with mental health and/or drug problems. Trials shall be conducted with modular or organised adult training, including: in the field of health and growth and construction, where the demand for labour is high. Strengthening the Competence Plus scheme will help to provide more basic training in the workplace. I must also correct an incursion in the position, in Chapter 2.1, where, in general remarks from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, reference is made to the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party. In the summary of the changes made to Framework Area 7 as a result of the agreement, Chapter 872 item 72 states that 6 million. kr in increased expenditure shall be allocated to the scheme of grants Measures to improve the living conditions and quality of life of disabled people. This should have been divided into two items: Chapter 872 item 70, where 5 million. kr in increased expenditure shall be allocated to the grant scheme Leisure measures for persons with disabilities, and in the same chapter, but in item 72 1 million. kr in increased expenditure goes to the grant scheme Measures to improve the living conditions and quality of life of people with disabilities. Ensuring a sustainable welfare society is a continuous work, and we are in the process. We are implementing the pension reform, so that more people can stand longer in work. We're doing a high school and a job market, so that students learn more, less falls from, and no one is going to experience that they're going out on date. We carry out an inclusion process, which allows more people to be included in the labour market. The unemployment rate has not been lower since 2009. The growth is increasing. The Norwegian economy is now growing faster than in a normal year, and only in the last year has it created 44,000 new jobs. During the previous period of rise, during the red-greens, almost all the jobs went to the immigrants. This time we're going to spend the good time including more in the working life. We have to organize so that everyone can contribute what they can. Something else is wasting people's skills. Even though a lot goes well, there's a lot of mess and a lot that can be done better. We're always going to close holes in which people stumble, lower thresholds for participation and lift up those who need it. But in terms of the red-green fear, the fascination is that we have never had so many newspapers since the mid-war, the school death under the red-greens has been stagnated, the bus for trains is going as usual, we have 2 800 tons of lambs on the freezer store, progress in most equality cases, it has become easier to change legal gender, there are fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list, North Norway is going so it consumes and actually lacks labour, but at this time, enough roses have also this year Daua in Frogner Park.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2185	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2191	It was a long line of the wonderful that has entered the Norwegian people under this government. Even I have a question about the so-called red tape and efficiency reform. I say ‘so-called’ because flat cheese ratios all over the line hardly deserve the term ‘reform’ – but let go. There has been a recurrence in the budgets since 2016 and is now being repeated for 2019. I interpret this as the right-wing view of the so-called reform as a success. On Nav's operating budget, the cuts are about 300 million. kr, so quite concrete: what efficiency gains have users of Nav been labeled as a direct consequence of these cuts in the service apparatus?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2198	Several parts of Nav have noticed this in the form of a faster procedure, which is a consequence of working smarter and better by changing. In the competitive sector – i.e. in the private sector – competition contributes to the continuous change and improvement of business and organisations. The public sector does not have the same pressure. The aim, of course, is to increase the production of services without increasing costs. When the gastrosurgical department at the Hospital Østfold manages to double the number of operations per day by working smarter, it is possible to do this elsewhere, also internally in Nav. The red tape reform is important because it provides a firm demand for efficiency, and savings give us room for action to implement new and important policy priorities. Through the budget agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party last year, we have among other things. has been given the opportunity to re-prioritize over 2 billion. kr for other purposes, as a consequence of the ABE reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2207	I thank you for your answer. The question concerned mainly Nav and not gastrosurgery. It was said here that an effect was faster processing, but it is a little strange. The searcher finds – a little here and there – and in the budget proposal it says, among other things. that a central objective of the management is to provide users with timely and correct benefits. At the same time, however, the budgetary paper states that the government is well aware that the procedure for a number of benefits is increasing. In addition, it is noted that the proportion of refusals and the proportion of reschedulings following complaints by decision is relatively high for some benefits and that the duration of proceedings in social security has more than doubled since 2014. The number of cases received has increased, the number of stays has next doubled, people lose the right to work clearance without being notified, and without a new decision being taken. Then the question is, why do you stand so far from the right performance goal at the right time? If this is not the ABE reform – what is the explanation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2214	We are also familiar with the increased balances in the Nav case. It can be because of a lot of things, but one of those things isn't that you get a cut in the drift when you're constantly getting an increase in bets. The ABE reform is an important measure of migration, the aim of which is to speed up the process by just working smarter. I use the gastro-surgical department at the Hospital Eastfold because they show that it is also possible in other, demanding departments to work smarter without using more resources. More effective treatment in Nav has actually released 175 million. NOK, which returns to the Nav offices. There has been an increase in the number of cases in some areas, but as far as I am aware, Nav says they are on track to get control of these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2223	Bård Jahr, former priest in Loppa, said to me, "You must stand up for the people who live most. It means both socially and geographically. For the Center Party, people are not millions of leading stars. We need to promote soberness and generosity, and that is a major challenge for the economic resources forces in the Right. Among the people I associate, there is greater insecurity and more abstinence. We have to get a change. The centre party must strengthen its social profile – the right reply to cut arrangements that one say has expired. An acid test is the children’s supplement tested for need in the dry matter. My question is, why is there once again a need to partially rectify this basic security through an agreement with the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2232	Many social schemes have been justified by a recognition of the need for a form of aid in which the State or the municipality has not been able to contribute. But we have more arrangements that we think you can change. For example, last year, we removed the aid rate 0, which was used to purchase private services for the home in the absence of municipal services, and which was abolished by the Brundtland government in 1992, but was removed only last year. While the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV have consistently expanded and eroded the day-to-day pay system, the Right this year makes further changes to make sure that it is working properly. We see that it's not necessarily every system, individually, that makes it pay not to work, but the possibility of putting them on top of each other. And since going out to work, the most effective response to poverty is that we believe we're going to calibrate on the arrangements we have, and make sure they're always work-oriented, so that it always pays off to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2239	What we hear here is that disabled people who are responsible for children need to be stimulated to get into work by getting fewer child supplements. Most people understand that this is an impossibility. Another question is that the government is talking about ABE? The cheese mats? as a reform. It's one of the saddest things I've ever seen, trying to get into such a new talk. There's talk of it having an effect on Nav. Why not take a phone to the Nav Contact Center and see how many minutes you have to stand on the phone as a result of the system not working? Why not talk to the case handlers who are there and are afraid to report up in the system, because if they report reality up, they don't get a career? Should not the Right soon get involved in the situation out there, where it happens, and then take a real reform – a trust reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2246	The right has confidence both in the case handlers in Nav and in Nav, and I think this room should have it much more often. They make good priorities. Much we have seen in the past that has been wrong in Nav, they are now in the process of repairing. As far as the ABE reform is concerned, I am constantly coming back to the fact that the public sector also needs to be able to provide good services to its citizens. I know that the Center Party will always vote down, for example. the proposal to shut down municipal chemical offices, where we could save 360 million. kr. The tax haven says we only need 29 of those offices. This means that we never get that change in the public sector that gives the citizens of Norway the good services we know they both deserve and are entitled to, because we spend money on maintaining district jobs that we strictly do not need. The workers who work there could spend their resources on something productive, for the benefit of their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2251	It almost seems to be amissable thing when you talk about working, but the thing that many people need to know is that the next sentence means that you have to lose weight on being sick or unemployed. Then we get back to some of the things that are important for SV, namely that social welfare recipients all over Norway are losing child welfare. The right is, as far as I know, to test the child's health, but right here you're testing the child's back, that is, those who need the most exactly that money are going to lose them. Then my question is, why should a two-child parent who receives social assistance lose NOK 2,000 every month?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2256	I really think the question SV asks is good, but the right is too local self-government. This is up to the municipalities themselves. Which of the most important things we do to strengthen families with children, don't go to child welfare or to increase it? This is something that we are still in this budget? but on other social services that support families with children. I was in several of them in the main post, but I think the question is good. Then SV should go to their own municipalities where SV is in management and ask them why they do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2261	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2267	In the Foreign Minister's statement in Stortinget today, she said: ‘For the government it has been absolutely essential during the negotiations that the platform sow no doubt whatsoever that any State decides for itself who will be admitted to its territory, for how long and under what conditions.’ Furthermore, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that ‘countries have a sovereign right to regulate their own immigration’. And finally: ‘National sovereignty across our borders is, of course, crucial for Norway as well. We ourselves need to define our immigration policy. It is we who decide who will gain access to our country, for what purpose and for how long." These are important and good quotations from the Minister of Foreign Affairs that most people have to realize. The Central Party has constantly ringed the national state, combined with strong international cooperation through the UN, and we are therefore supporters of the Global Migration Platform. Interestingly, the government is now focusing more on the interests of Norway as a national state. In the fight against people's insecurity, our biggest challenge is the labour market, but the government has doubts about free labour immigration for people in the EEA who come from outside the Nordic region. There are no signs of change from the government parties, and that is logical, because the government parties stand for an economic liberalism where free movement across borders is absolutely central. Throughout the history of the Center Party, from 1920 until today, we have been responsible for the popular governance of market forces – popular governance of market forces – i.e. a mixed economy. It separates the Central Party from the Civil Right today as in 1920. It is the Stortinge that determines the content of our mixed economy, and elected representatives are responsible for and duty to manage the labour market. All batches give the impression that they are too full-time, that everyone who wants, can or has the ability to work must have an income-intensive job and that they should be able to do so. But with the governance of this government, it will be impossible to have full employment, because we have a free labour immigration from countries with high unemployment and poor pay. It will be impossible to provide income-intensive work to those who have a weak working capacity in Norway. Finally, today’s policy will lead to a major need for very large government budget appropriations to provide security for the many outsiders. The centre party wants the offer page in the Norwegian labour market to be regulated by sea. The supply side needs to be regulated in order to create a balanced labour market without unemployment. The centre party believes that we need to demand permanent employment with Norwegian pay and working conditions in order to obtain a work permit for people outside the Nordic region. Social dumping must be stopped at the border. This is to control the labour market at large. The fight against social dumping and labour crime must be reinforced by the Centre Party in all areas. HMS cards, formerly known as ID cards, must be available from workers at the workplace and can be checked so that work is carried out in legal forms in real time. For this reason, the Central Party has its own proposal, where a government is asked to establish the necessary legislation to provide real-time information on who is legally authorised to work in Norway. Development of this HMS card is important to ensure that the card contains the qualifications of the workers holding the card. The report Simple to be serious from the National Association of Construction Industries recommends the establishment of a central public register of qualifications, which is supported by the Centre Party. With regard to the individual budget chapters, I will start with permanent work, VTA. On the agreement, there was a happy improvement in that we got 500 new seats, so that now there were 700 new ones. At this year's Most Important Lunch, as the then head of the Employers' Association for Growth and Recruitment Enterprises, ASVL, and former Right State Council, Victor D. Norman, kept out of the Storting, the former State Council said that investing in several VTA sites is one of the most socially profitable. The industry accounts for 2000 new sites in this ageing period. With what has happened in 2018, and what will now happen in 2019, there will be 1 100 new places. That's good, and it's important to move on. But the most important thing is to get a system change, so that we get a rights-based system from 1 August 2019, proposes the Center Party. It should be such that all those in that high school group shall have an automatic right to a place when they leave high school and go to college. This must be financed through an allocation of appropriations. We look forward to supporting our proposal on that point. With regard to the Labour Inspectorate, we need clarification of the Work Environment Act, so that the Labour Inspectorate has the necessary powers to deal with a much more unambiguous code. A much more unambiguous code is important for the Labour Inspectorate. There is a great need to make the legislation clearer. It will give rise to fair competition, and this will lead to all actors knowing what the rules are and therefore dealing with them to a greater extent. It is also important to have a better legal basis for the Labour Inspectorate. I show you, among other things: to Document 8:57 L for 2018–2019, from the Centre Party, where we propose that the Labour Inspectorate should be given permission under Section 18-6 of the Working Environment Act to check the rentals of temporary workers. It should have been in place from 1 January 2019. Now we're saying that it has to be in place as soon as possible, and it's very special that the government now has to be stressed to follow up the sanctions for adopted legislative changes that happened earlier this year. Furthermore, we need to get a check on the workplace. Labour inspectorate needs to be more comprehensive, so that there is a greater risk of being put into practice. Furthermore, it is necessary to amend the legislation on the register of clean-up operations so that only authorised establishments can offer clean-up services to businesses or to private individuals. There the Centre Party, together with the SV and the Workers' Party, has a proposal for tightening up. We also need to use the homes provided by the Labour Inspectorate to remedy the breach of the Work Environment Act more vigorously – this in order to change the behaviour of the companies. The central party increased the appropriations allocated to the Labour Inspectorate by 22 million. kr. It is part of our continuous commitment to the Labour Inspectorate, but we now need to see the link between increased appropriations and a regulatory framework and a practice that provides better results. In the case of day-payments for the permitting scheme, the scheme is essential in order to ensure permanent employment even in the event of large fluctuations in labour needs due to seasonal or market variations. The centre lot is clearly opposed to increasing the proportion of holdings by the fact that the holdings have to cover 15 days instead of 10 days on leave. The Central Party proposes the necessary appropriations, 54 million. kr, to ensure that. However, the centre party accepts the reduction in the maximum permeability period from 49 to 26 weeks, down to half a year, because 49 weeks is more of an exception rule to deal with major negative cyclical fluctuations. We believe that 26 weeks, half a year, should be reasonable to the vast majority of companies. In the case of sick pay for seagoing persons, the proportion today is 16 days and the coverage is 75 pst. from the 17th day. The centre party wants a further improvement in order to increase the equivalence of employees and to go in for 80 pst. from the 17th day. It requires an allocation of $29 million. kr, and unfortunately we are alone about it. This scheme is an important social security network for people entering the labour force and provides security of income under illness. The centre party believes that this is a cheap system to create greater justice in the world of work. It is an important mechanism to ensure that people dare to become sea-going traders with their own responsibilities. The Celiaki scheme will be prioritised by the Centre Party. We also strengthen the car support system for Group 2 with specially adapted cars. We are going in to increase the basic pension for single-age pensioners by NOK 4000 from 1 September 2019, in order to maintain and improve, I would like to say a little, increased purchasing power in 2019 for these pensioners. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Central Party and the proposal we have with the Socialist Left in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2319	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has then addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2326	The disagreement between the Centre Party and a clear majority in this Chamber — and also a single Norwegian business community — regarding the EEA Agreement is well known. But I think it's interesting that the Central Party in its alternative budget cuts $1.4 billion. kr by reducing the EEA funds. The EEA funds are a consequence of a negotiated agreement between Norway and the EU and are valid for a seven-year period and the current period is from 2014 to 2021. This is otherwise an agreement it took a year and a half to agree on the amount in. My question to the Central Party is whether they believe it is free from Norway just to ignore the international agreements that have been concluded. And if you don't, there's 1.4 billion missing. kr in the budget of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2333	These are amounts that are outside our committee's budget, but it is an important issue that is being addressed. As it's said here, it took a long time to agree on the amounts. There is considerable uncertainty about the impact of these amounts in the countries to which they come. I have seen how the money is used, and it can be largely questioned. This is considered by the Centre Party to be a quota for having the EEA Agreement. We have our position on the EEA Agreement and we vote in view of the fact that we do not see the EEA Agreement as appropriate. We want international solidarity, but we do so independently of the EEA Agreement arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2338	Although the EEA Agreement is formally outside this Committee, few issues are more important for Norwegian working life than it is. But I think it's relevant in this context, because the Central Party in the labour and social field has an additional consumption of 139.7 million. kr – if I have counted correctly – when you take the bets and cuts and see the difference there. Then it's relevant if the Center Party has financed this extra consumption in the labour and social field with money that it's really not possible to collect, so it's 1.4 billion. kr in their budget, which is derived from a negotiated agreement that runs until 2021, and which we have therefore agreed with the EU on what to charge. So I can repeat my question to Lundtigen: Does the Center Party believe that this is an agreement with which we can only ignore and budget with which we want, or does it lack containment in the Central Party budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2345	The centre party has a budget cover – we have a very sober budget, so it's in its entirety. To what the representative now said about working life and how these resources work on the labour market, I would recommend that more people travel to these countries and see how it works in general. I have experienced myself working in the Transilvania community, where six sheep cutters worked to milk sheep. They milked 600 sheep three times a day, and they had a payment for what corresponded to what a beggar gets in Brerenen Square. It is the reality that you are up to, and that reality has become more difficult lately because of the free movement, because large parts of the market that used to be national are now part of the EEA market and they are being out of competition in their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2352	It is no secret that the Central Party's labour and social policy under the representative Lundtigen has moved many steps to the left, but in one recurring debate I think the representative has had a slightly different view I thought. This applies to the special advantages of refugees. Because if we are to have legitimacy around the welfare systems we have, it is important that those who actually receive them are the ones who receive them, and also that there are equal rights in Norway. In popular terms, we have more special advantages where someone gets faster earnings than others, where a student who has studied abroad and comes home again has much less protection than a refugee. This government and the Progress Party have made proposals to eliminate these special advantages. The centre party voted against. Is this a view of the Centre still that refugees should have better benefits and arrangements than ethnic Northmen?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2357	First to the question of whether the center party is right or left: I can assure you that what's our leading star is what Ivar Aasen said: one doesn't find anything until one gets where it is. So we're going to go to reality. We experience the life situation in which humans are, and we then promote the necessary suggestions to ensure that they are jealous. If it's called left or right, we don't care much because we do a job for people. So to the special advantage of refugees: Yes, it is part of the Mantra of the Advance Party. If we think of the elderly, those who have an old age pension, who have no basic insurance from the country they come from, and who are pensioners in Norway, they also have to have a income, so that you can have a decent life when you're in Norway. Isn't it central, as part of the integration? What is the option of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2364	I'm recording that the representative Lundtigen is not initially responding. I can take a concrete example. A Norwegian youth moves abroad to study and choose to study there for five to six years. He comes home again and ends up in a tragic accident with a newly arrived refugee who has been in Norway one day. They're both out of business. Only the refugee will then receive disability benefit – and thus would like to have ‘young disabled’ if he is so young – while the Norwegian will not qualify for disability benefit. Does the representative of Lundteg really think it's fair? Why can we not also create a system of legitimacy where we are all equal, regardless of where they come from?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2369	Based on that story, it is absolutely necessary to change the situation of the student who was destroyed in Norway. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2375	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2380	SV wants a society with small differences and good safety nets. This gives people opportunities. Having a job provides financial security and opportunities for more power in your own life. It is therefore serious for both the country and the population that unemployment is too high. Too many young people are out of work, education or activity. Young people must be given the opportunity to qualify for work out there. Training and not least closer follow-up must then be provided. This means that people have to be given time to complete, time to try their way forward and time to participate in the world of work. In the summer I visited the employment training department in Stavanger municipality for one week. I got a close look at what a close and good cooperation between Nav and the municipality can do. There is no doubt that most people enjoy meaningful work. Many Nav employees often follow up on 200 people at any time. Then it's very difficult to follow up each one in a good way. While the government cuts flat ABE cuts, people stand without a decision on redundancy money because Nav has no capacity. This cannot continue. Today, proposals are being made to automatically extend the benefit until a new decision is taken to Nav users who suddenly have no income due to capacity problems at Nav. SV is very concerned that many people are being pushed into social assistance as a result of not getting what they need from government benefits. To follow up on thousands of unemployed young people, Nav needs more resources. The Nav employees themselves say that they have too little time to follow each one closely. SV believes that there has to be a greater obligation to Nav – it is with Nav that the activity obligation should lie. SV believes that there is a need for a genuine youth guarantee that ensures young people under 25 years of age work, activity or qualification within three months. The government's unsocial cut particularly affects the young growing up in poor families. SV will strongly strengthen housing support and the local economy. Child protection is essential in the fight against poverty. In many municipalities, families receiving social assistance lose, in reality, child-responsiveness when the benefit is measured. This has to end. The size must take responsibility for this, rather than that it is up to each municipality. In Stavanger, there are 390 families affected by this, and on average, more than NOK 2000 is cut every month. While Norway has a high proportion of women in the labour market, employment is still gender-divided, both in terms of choice of employment and share of employment. Women, and in particular those with short-term education, are over-represented in terms of part-time and temporary employment. This bias contributes to the maintenance of pay differentials and limits the freedom of choice of women and men not only in working life but also in family life and education. Equality does not come of itself. We need to take political action to correct the biases. Too many, and especially women, work involuntarily in Norway. We have to work on this on several fronts. SV believes it is high time to restore a system of full-time measures in the workplace. SV will also have six-hour workday trials, and believes that it must be used for long-term and good trials. The government will cut the number of weeks you can be permitted with a payroll exemption for employees, from 49 to 26 weeks. I'm from Rogaland and I know well the conditions of the companies there. There is still a need for extended weeks of pay-free. It is also unfortunate that the cut has been proposed without conferring with the social partners and before the work of the joint working group, which is to assess the permitting regime, ends. It should be good to go to work. People need security. They should not be concerned about their pension, whether the job can be privatised, or that they have to run from task to task without feeling that they have done a good enough job. Work life cannot be disconnected from life itself. People should be able to work for a long time, with joy and good health. I'm convinced that SV's policy is the best thing to ensure: a better life for the many, not just for the few on top.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2403	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2408	The budgetary period is the time of year when we politicians put action behind our words by putting funds into the budget. We just have to show the cards. One of our most important, but also the most difficult, tasks is to prioritise. Money cannot be used twice, either in the monopoly or in the state budget. Under this government, the care allowance scheme has been prioritised by a significant increase and extension. Many more families are now entitled to care allowance. On Monday SV promoted a proposal for a rating rule on non-aided care allowance. This has just been announced several times by the SV representative in this room. What is striking, however, is that there is not a single word about care allowance or grading rules in the SV's own budget. Perhaps it was not important enough when words were to be transformed into action? So the question is, why hasn't SV added money to this in its alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2417	In the 2019 budget, the government adds that the plan costs 1 billion. NOK 250 million. kr higher than consumption in 2018. This appropriation is hereby decided upon. We've never accused the government of giving too little to pay the allowance. We believe that the legislation is the problem. But I think it is special that the right at all dry, when they – on Monday – voted in favour of the proposal to do something about the graduation rules. I spoke to a nursing mother at the latest today who was worried, not about this, for this I explained carefully, but that she has to take up the consumption loan to take care of her sick son. I think that's a bigger problem, and the Right and Government haven't done enough. The problem in this case is not SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2422	I registered the answer to the previous line. Just to understand this quite correctly: the Socialist Left wants to further improve the care scheme, spend more money on it, but does not grant money. It must then be interpreted in such a way that they intend to cut off some groups in the care scheme, and then I hope the representative Faret Zechariahsen can be honest on which groups in the care scheme you cut so that you can give more to others. In the speech, the representative was aware that the country’s pensioners should not be concerned about their pension. I fully agree, although it is special, that all the time the Socialist Left Party was among those who voted in favour of the pension reform in its time, and now proposes that 300,000 age pensioners pay increased taxes. The Socialist Left Party was also opposed to the proposals of the Progress Party on and through to reduce the shortening of married and cohabiting pensioners. So my question is, why does the Left Party want increased taxes for the country's pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2429	I understand that the representative Wiborg has two questions – I will try to make good use of the speaking time and answer them both. And to make it clear, 1 billion has been added. DKK for allowance, 250 million. kr more than what has been used for the current year. That means that this scheme is more than well funded, and that means that we want to strengthen the care scheme. We will continue that fight, and I believe that the representative should rather spend more time making sure that his own government does enough for those who feel the worst when it comes to this. Then it is that since 2014 and since this government joined, Norwegian pensioners have lost purchasing power equivalent to NOK 24 000, and it is SV who has mentioned that this should be dealt with in Stortinget. It is SV who have said that we will give the parties the right to negotiate here. In this way, we will help to get better pensions, not worse pensions, which Norwegian pensioners have received in the years in which the Progress Party has been in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2438	I register that SV has been involved and supported under the permit rules to continue. The representative, the father, the sakariassen, came from the Rogaland oil state, and it was the state that was the hardest frame of descent. I also record that the Center Party will not be involved in maintaining the 49-week period. Could the representative, Father Zechariah, say a little about the importance of this scheme for Rogaland, how important it still is, and tell us a little about the importance of maintaining 49 weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2443	This, I think, is an important question, and that's because I'm an oil kid, as we say in Stavanger. I grew up in a town with a father who works in "oil," and I know this closely on the body. I also knew many of them who just lost their jobs. It is also an important question because I know that companies in Rogaland are concerned about maintaining the skills of their employees, even if they have to be licensed. For example, I have visited Rosenberg Verft several times, with whom I expect the representative Sande to be well-known, and they have clearly stated that this is important legislation to take care of, precisely to ensure that competence can be maintained, rather than what happened largely in the years of crisis in my region, that people have moved. People traveled to other parts of the country, and that meant that we lost a lot of competence. It is important for the companies in Rogaland to have a good permitting system, and therefore I must say that I am very disappointed that the government is not doing this to strengthen the companies in Rogaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2448	After some years here, we have learned that SV is too market economy, but SV is probably the strongest follower of controlling the market economy, controlling the market. And there are few markets that need popular governance stronger than the labour market. The labour market must be managed at large in order to be safe. Now we have a system of free labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries, which is destroying this system. It's, what I would call, a base shot at the Norwegian model. What is the question: is SV in favour of regulated labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2455	Those who are older than me remember the 1970s and the mls, but now we have the new mls, i.e. the market liberals who think freely that the market needs no control, it can control itself. Like the representative Lundtigen, we are committed to ensuring good working conditions in Norway. That means you have to work against people coming here and being subjected to social dumping. That's also why, like the Centre Party, we're against the EEA Agreement. And the most important thing to do about better regulation of labour migration is to get out of the EEA Agreement and make sure that you have good working conditions in Norway and that everyone who works in Norway gets Norwegian pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2461	I also noticed in the father Zechariah's answer to the first line, where he said that SV never said that too little money for the care arrangement was the basis for the criticism they came with on Monday. I was in the same debate as the Father Zechariah on Monday, and then SV representatives said it was because the scheme was too expensive that the Christian People's Party would not give her priority. We may have different perceptions of what happened in that debate, but that's what I heard. I stand for the words that I said in that debate, with the exception of those for which the President properly clubs. I stand for what I said that the system has become better step by step when the Christian People's Party has had the ability to influence. Does the representative of Faret Sakariassen think that the arrangement was better when SV was put in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2468	I can repeat what I have also said before. It is not the use of money that we have thought has been too small. It is the legislation that is too rigid and that ensures that the incomes of some families are actually too poor. Improvements have been made in the care scheme that we also think are good, but there are clearly some families that get much worse out of this scheme. So part of those families and their parents were sitting in this gallery on Monday and crying. They were several times in contact with Storehaug and other colleagues from the Storehaug Party, the Christian People's Party, and were clearly dissatisfied with the fact that the Christian People's Party did not help to do anything with the rules of graduation now. So now there's a decision made, without a deadline, for this government. Those of us who either stop within the Storting sometimes during the year, or follow Norwegian policies, know that this government must have deadlines for tasks that it is not interested in following up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2475	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2480	When the Left joined the government in January, it was with the goal of a greener, more rustier and more social liberal policy for the country, and I believe that we have. One of the main efforts of the government is inclusion, a project to get more of those who are out of work today. More people should have a job to go to – that's how easy it is. It is also shown in the budget. Overall, Norway is doing well. Most people have a job to do. The proportion of people on Nav has never been so low, and we see that unemployment is falling. Now we have time to bet and finally to get those who have been outside, because we know that we need more in work. Then it was just missing that we didn't give everyone who wanted and had the opportunity to work, the chance. We have a challenge ahead. The labour market is changing. There are fewer manual jobs and more requiring specialised competence. We're fresher and we live longer. Then we also have to work longer, so that we do not throw our legs away under the welfare state. The welfare state is an honorary word that was first launched by Left-Man Paal Berg in the 1930s. The left continues to have the same perspective on the welfare state as we have on climate and the environment. Future generations have the same right to have it good and safe as we do. We need to take the necessary steps now to ensure the sustainability of the future. We know that less than half of the Nordics with disabilities are employed, but many more want to be. It is a fundamental liberal principle that everyone should have equal opportunity to take an active part in society and in working life. Let me remind you what work means: a job, a reason to get up, a community, a place you use to develop your abilities and potential, a place where you get opportunities, and a place where you can contribute – a meaning in everyday life. Many people today are kept outside this community against their will. The government is increasing support for Individual job support by 55 million. kr. Next year we'll have 700 more permanent jobs, i.e. jobs for disabled people who need extra good follow-up and organisation. This is one of the areas where the budget became even better after the negotiations with the Christian People's Party. I hope we can also work together well in the future to lower the threshold into the working life for more people. A main effort for the Left is to overcome poverty and, in particular, child poverty. In 2015, we were able to provide four- and five-year-olds in low-income families with free core time. Since then, we have both increased the income limit and included several age groups in the scheme. Next year, children will be free to go to kindergarten in their core time from the age of two, and we know that it will work. New reports show that children who use free core time gain better language skills, better performance at school and less need exemptions from national tests. Once again, it's connected to the inclusion dungeon. The most important measure to reduce child poverty in the long term is to have more parents at work, especially mothers. But the children are not responsible for their own situation, and we have to give help that facilitates the situation there and then, and that also equips them for school and a life where they themselves escape the traps of poverty. This is why free kindergarten is so important, as well as strengthening national anti-poverty grant schemes that ensure thousands of children a good holiday and activity offer they would not otherwise have received. The contribution to the development of social services in the Nav office is also increased by 10 million. kr next year, and it is an important way to equip municipalities to help the least resource-intensive inhabitants. This is the first budget of the Left in government, and the priorities are clear. We raise children and young people and those who strive to make room for work. It's voice, and it's about being on the side of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2499	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2504	I record that the Left has been involved in weakening the permitting arrangements significantly. The calculation model for day money is weak, the period of leave is curtailed and the employer period is extended. At the same time, the Left has contributed to the reduction of corporate surplus taxes. It benefits mainly the owners of the companies. Permitting measures are measures to help businesses get through a wave valley, so that they can start making money. Isn't the Left aware that there are still a lot of companies upsetting the West Coast that are tired and are still not back where they were before the downpour began? Why stop the targeted handbill that the permitting rules represent, instead of giving tax reliefs in general to business owners who don't need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2511	We know that it's gone very well after it was a dump in some areas. There was a lot of unemployment, and there were a lot of businesses that sucked. They are now up and going again, and I believe that the arrangements we have today are good for both the employee and the employer, both to be able to maintain the competence of the area and not least to be able to develop a new business – to put it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2516	In previous years, the Left has been concerned with maritime operators and the social arrangements that apply to them. The left has been a driver for improving the health pay system, as an example. Today, the sick pay scheme for seafaring sole proprietor is such that there are 16 qualifying days, and then there is a coverage of 75 pst. from the 17th day. There is a very insecure scheme in relation to employees, which has 100 pst. coverage from the first day, and it is a very important issue that concerns those who consider that they are moving from being employees to becoming a seafarer, with their own company and their own account. My question is: why does the Left in Government not now want to improve the sick pay scheme for seafaring entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2523	The arrangements today are much better than they were when Lundtegen and the Senterparte were in government. In recent years there has been a clear improvement for self-employed people in terms of both health and pension entitlements. And the left will promise that we will fight further to get better arrangements for this group in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2528	The representative says it's become a rusty budget. I very much agree if I look at the 0.1 pst. The richest people in Norway, who have had 1.4 billion. kr in cash, right in the pocket, without a requirement to cross a few sticks, while the government has tightened up on the representative who is talking about, namely how important it is to assist people who have fallen out of work. It's tightened up on the AAP, it's tightened up on the social welfare for lonely dependants, so that fewer people now come to work. It's about people having to complete their skills, because there's a gap between what people can and what they expect today. Then it would be interesting to hear the representative's explanation as to why it is right to spend 1.4 billion. to Norway’s richest and freshest people instead of using them to raise skills for people outside the labour market and need to complete their skills in order to get a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2535	The left has helped to lower taxes on businesses and workers. We very much believe that there is also a recipe for creating more jobs, so that you have something to offer to those who have fallen outside. I don't think it's just social benefits or state and municipal schemes that are the recipe. I also think private people have a lot to contribute to get even more out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2541	If it had even been possible to refer to that context. We've asked the government to show us that context, but it doesn't exist. On the other hand, there is a very clear link between completing skills — closing the gap in skills between what people can and what the working life expects of them. We know that a lot – e.g. people with disabilities — often having to overcompensate with education to be taken into account at all. You ignore the competence of people with disabilities or with holes in the CV. It's absolutely right that we also need jobs. But then it's very strange that the Left has been involved in cutting off the resources to create jobs in District Norway that show higher profitability and over 5 pst. more jobs — than these tax havens, which in a way are only thrown out without objectives and meaning. What is the reason why the Left has cut off the means of action, when they show the production of many jobs, which the representative calls for?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2548	I said in my post that most things in Norway are actually going very well. Most people have a job to do. There has not been such a low unemployment in a long time, and there is less than a long time going into the Nav system. Then I do not see that SV has a good point when they say that the government does nothing for the group that is still outside. We know that it's not yet good enough, but we're working on it. I believe that both tax relief and, of course, corrective measures are important. We are going to do that and contribute further to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2553	This is going to be a very round and non-binding speech. We have a government that has had as much money at its disposal as no government has ever had before. Why then do you choose to tighten up the arrangements to assist people into working life, allowing them to complete a competence that is such that some employers need them? I remind the representative that this also applies to the introduction system and refugees. There was a big research report last year that documents just this. They say, "That's one problem." Close the gap between what people can, and what work life needs! We have to do that with regard to the introduction system and the actions in Nav. What makes the representative think that it is possible for these people to be employed without having had the opportunity to acquire that competence and they have come into a situation where they are professionally inhibited and are given the AAP, for example.?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2562	I also mentioned in my speech that the welfare state must be sustainable, because there are several generations that will benefit from it. I think the government has put up a budget that is sober in view of, for example. the use of oil money. I hear SV has money for every purpose. As far as this is concerned, it is necessary to try to stimulate both the promotion of skills and not only the public sector, but more enterprises can use and offer good jobs to this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2569	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2574	It's a little bit like that in part of these budget debates there's two very different understandings of reality -- there's almost a debate about whether it's both cloudless and raining at the same time, while the truth is usually a place in between. I think I'll try to say something about what I think is very good with this year's budget, especially after the budget agreement, where the Christian People's Party has got some important promises in place. Some things have been corrected in which the budget proposal has been supported by budgetary constraints. In other posts, one has followed up policies that we and the party we have created budgets with have been agreed on. In other areas, one has been raised by the Christian People's Party in a struggle for quite alone. One of the things that I might be particularly happy about is that we've now got a real raise in the number of VTA places. With the negotiation of the budget that is now on the table, we're going from the government's proposal for a raise of 200 to add 500 more places. I haven't done my homework and checked if there's ever been more delivered in a year, but I suspect there's others who would have liked to call this a historic boost – at least we're in the vicinity of it when we're up in 1,100 new AFT places so far in this period. It's a little bit of fun to read through the budget recordings and find the ASVL recording, because rarely has anyone prioritised such a large font size to figure out that they meant 2,000 VTA seats were the most important thing to do during this period, and that there was this government budget an important move. We're in good shape now. Today, I can also refer to the verbals in the budget area where one also highlights the AFT measure and asks the government to clarify the work-sharing between Nav and the action organiser, so that it will be prudent for these action organisers. One learns quite a lot from having shadow responsibility for a policy area such as the labour and social field – yet one does not get a seat in the committee. One experience I've done is that it often doesn't have to be the big sums of a government budget that makes up the big difference in everyday life for people. I think this is what I might be saying, above all, in one of the issues that we are about to change – the car support system. In the revised budget last year, we received a proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Progress Party, a loose proposal in which we asked the government 'fastest, and at the latest in the context of the 2019 budget, to assess whether the right to car support class 2 should also be granted to people who do not have a very limited walking function, but who, for other reasons such as, for example, developmental inhibition with time-consuming behaviour, are dependent on an organised car'. It turned out that we had to do another round of budgetary questions and more before we were in the goal, but today I am very happy that we have seen funds for that purpose. The point of that promise is that car support for a large car must be given to those who need it, even if they are not in a wheelchair. This may, for example: relate to persons who are outgoing and who must be protected against the driver’s environment or others who must be present on the journey. This change in car support means a lot to the people involved, even though it is a relatively small part of a large budget. I'm glad. I am also pleased that we have managed to fix a relatively large cut in support of the Celiacs. Now, with the devices we've been able to figure out, there's a slight drop from how the scheme was this year, but it's become more gradual than the budget proposal and the constraints provided, and one still has up to a rate that I think most people can be happy with. I notice that in some other debates the post office will be about 200 million. kr for Celiacs used as an example of: Why all day long was this prioritised by the Christian People's Party? But I've noticed during this debate that it seems like there's quite a lot of sedan in this room about the model we've now landed on. Let me just quickly mention two other permissions that I'm very happy with. One thing is that in this budget issue we can also raise the minimum pension for single retirement pensioners by $4,000 – once again a relatively small sum and again a sum that I think has a clear Christian People's Party image. From the time of the central government, the Christian People's Party has stood for the minimum pension list, and one is capable of securing their purchasing power now as well. Last, but not least you've got 10 million. to a system of support for the prevention and reduction of poverty among children and young people. It is important that we step up and make further efforts to address the families living below our poverty line. It is also about the large sums that were moved into other disciplines in this budget. Let me conclude by saying that we have also been able to prevent a regulatory change on the Kiel ferries. It is also a pleasant matter – even if it does not belong to this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2599	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2604	The taskbar is important. It's worth your while to work, and the Center Party is behind it. But every rule must have an exception, and every rule has a limit on how hard a person should run the principle. I believe the Christian People's Party and the Center Party agree on this with regard to those who are in paid employment, versus those who are not in paid employment, for example. in the case of maternity benefits. What the government is doing, however, is that it is running so hard on this principle that it is also going to apply to the disabled with children, by the sum of disability benefits and children's children's supplements tested for need to be lower than the income you had when you were in the labour force. I don't expect the Christian People's Party to think that these people are wondering about getting an improper dissatisfaction, with the reduction in quality of life that it involves, but my question is: What does the Christian People's Party really mean about dissatisfaction and need-tested child supplementation? Does the Christian People's Party believe that the sum for some with many children should be lower than the income they had before, as a principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2611	The representative Lundtigen is quite right in that we share the commitment of the groups he mentions, and show quite properly to the one-time benefit at birth, but I think that the establishment of the minimum pension is also a struggle for some of the same groups because they haven't had the same opportunity to raise the salary pension that others have had. When it comes to the specific question posed by the representative Lundtigen, it is true that the Christian People's Party has been involved in some budgetary conciliation that has led to a time-lag. If I don't think about our budget proposal this year completely wrong, we've suggested adjusting it a little bit, but it's still not 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2618	Yes, it's adjusted up a little bit. It's adjusted up from 95 pst. to 99 pst. – therefore the question. At 99 p.m. have the right words to the effect that the sum of disability benefits and child allowances — regardless of the number of children involved — should be below the previous income. Therefore, my question was: Is it also the Christian People's Party's opinion that one should run the principle so hard that one on death and life – excuse the expression, president – should be under 100 pst.? I had thought that the Christian People's Party would not agree to run a principle so hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2623	I mean, the alternative budget for the Christian People's Party is perfect at this point as well. I think it's a good principle because one can stand on the principle that one has before been adopting, and that is that it should be below. I share the opinion of the representative of Lundtegen that it should be raised. So we're raising it like this, but unfortunately we haven't agreed on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2629	I have to follow up where Lundteg left off. The representative describes his proposal as perfect. I think few of these families will describe their lives as perfect. There's nothing about being poor that makes the situation of these kids or these parents getting better. I have to ask the representative if he is not aware that many of these families have been struggling to stay in the labour market for many years. Many have had low incomes for very many years, and the principal barrier that the Christian People's Party is now setting up to accept a slightly larger child supplement for some of these families, will mean that these children are going to live their entire childhood in poverty and with parents who can't get into work and help to take them out of that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2634	There's a reason why the Christian People's Party has proposed to increase this, and it's about a commitment to the people and families that this is all about. So we want to increase it from 95 to 99 pst. This is part of a pretty good budget proposal, I think, that not only re-disposes between families of children, but also does something about child welfare, which is also an important step. We want to do more for several of the families where children grow up below what is today defined as the poverty line. The pot that I pointed out in my main post is also an addition to the measures that are being targeted at just the families.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2639	The great priority that the Christian People's Party has been on is to give priority to the richest. They're the ones who really got the big money. There are many good additions that the Christian People's Party has been on. But that's not what I asked. I asked about the specific situation of these families of children who have such low performances in their disability that they get a need-tested child supplement. In order to have a need-tested child supplement, you almost don't have to earn a living in popular security, so you're at the lowest social security level. That's exactly why you've created a need-tested child supplement for these families that can't get into a different situation on their own. What is the reason why it is believed that for these families, who have already had low income, this should be a permanent, chronic situation in the childhood of these children?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2644	I feel that the point from SV's representative is repeated. I'm going to repeat my point – that we have accepted that principle, but we want an increase, which we also proposed in this budget. Then I have to thank the representative for also being able to acknowledge that there is something the Christian People's Party has done right in this budget and move in the right direction, such as. Child-responsiveness, which I experience, is a struggle we're in with SV, in the same way as for example. in the fight against child poverty. In the previous budget, we have managed to do a lot for holiday provision for everyone, which I think is perhaps the most important thing to ensure participation regardless of the income of parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2651	The truth is that the Christian People's Party had done a lot more in this area together with SV than with the people you are now working with. I record that the representative can't defend this with the children's supplement in any other way than that it's just been decided, and that's what you say. But then I'm going to follow up another case, namely the care allowance and the need for grading. I expect that the representative is also aware that this year there has been a budget of 521 million. kr in that field, and that it would therefore be possible, within the budget set up next year, to increase the grading. I know that the representative is aware that there are now families with children who have to take up consumption loans in order to be able to pay their bills at all, because they have children who are unstablely ill. What is the reason why the Christian People's Party will not at least explore that possibility, when there is money for it in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2658	There is a lot of good evidence of things that allows the Christian People's Party to cooperate with SV, but I think that care allowance is a matter that also shows that it's good that we've gone away from having a red-green plural in this room. This case has a completely different speed, which now means that the pot representative refers to is of an entirely different scale today than when we had a red-green government. I'm glad, and that's important. The Christian People's Party has managed to move that system many steps in the right direction. And then it's absolutely right that we haven't done anything about the graduation schemes. It's about when you're in a budget where the Christian People's Party hasn't got through to it, you're going to stick to that budget. I notice that neither in its alternative budget does SV give priority to money for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2663	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2674	We are doing well in the Norwegian labour market. Employment is now clearly increasing. They're 75,000 more in jobs than two years ago, three-quarters of them in the private sector. More and more of those who have been out of work, want to work and get into work. After several years of decline, the participation in the labour force and the employment rate are now growing. At the same time, unemployment has fallen since the top in 2016. Many enterprises in most industries across the country now demand labour. Then we have to be able to include more people who are outside due to disabilities or gaps in the CV, and to strengthen the integration of immigrants into the labour market. The government wants to use the good times to ensure a sustainable welfare society. For this reason, the government has taken the initiative on inclusion. We're proposing a total of 125 million. DKK to a number of actions in the 2019 State Budget, such as several market contacts, to make closer contact between Nav and employers, and to increase efforts to support individual jobs, in order to contribute to the close follow-up of more people with mental health and/or drug problems. The government will now change the pay subsidy scheme to make it easier to apply to employers. The aim is to increase the use of wage subsidies. Several changes will also be made to the training measures of the Employment and Welfare Act to provide more users with a better offer of formal competence, including: in the field of vocational and vocational training, thereby bringing them closer to a job to live on. Summing up, efforts will help to reduce the threshold into the labour market and facilitate employers' recruitment of people from the target groups of inclusion. Permanently organised work, VTA, has helped to help more disadvantaged people contribute to the creation of value in society and participate in a community at work. The government proposed to increase the number of VTA slots. The budgetary agreement between the government and the Christian People's Party strengthens permanent organized work further. The number of places increases by a total of 700 in 2019. This is a historically strong bet on VTA. The government adapts the scope of labour market measures to the labour market situation. After the fall in the oil price in 2014, the effort for the unemployed was significantly strengthened. The outlook for the labour market in 2019 indicates that the scope of action can be reduced. Groups that make the labour market weaker, such as young people, long-term unemployed and immigrants from non-EEA countries, are prioritised for labour market action in 2019. The improvement in the labour market is reflected in the decrease in the scope of leave. The possibility of permitting is an important measure in bad times. Therefore, the legislation was also extended from 1 July 2015 as a hand bill in a demanding wage settlement. However, a long period of leave can also lead to long-term inactivity of workers and without being available to alternative employers. At a time when, with low unemployment, many job vacancies and signs of increasing labour shortages, this may be very unfortunate. In the state budget for 2019, therefore, the government proposes to reduce the time one can have a few days’ pay on leave, from 49 to 26 weeks. It is back to such legislation before enlargement, i.e. before the increase in unemployment. The government will facilitate a well-functioning working life, without the crime of working life. By combating labour-life crime, we at the same time strengthen serious work and contribute to the maintenance of a sustainable welfare society. As one of many important measures in the government’s strategy against crime at work, seven a-krim centres have been established. Action in the centres is now proposed to be further enhanced through increased staffing and better information sharing. High employment and low unemployment are essential to ensure a sustainable welfare society. The most important thing we can do to ensure good welfare arrangements is to include several of those who are out of work. However, we also need to ensure that our welfare and income insurance systems are properly designed. This means that we also need to constantly assess welfare systems with a view to simplifying and adapting them to social development. We are in the process of completing the pension reform, a work that has been going on for many years, and that is helping to strengthen the sustainability of the schemes, both because the growth of expenditure is being slowed down, and because it provides better incentives for longer employment. The reform is crucial if we are also to have room for action in the future government budgets to maintain and further develop well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2699	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2704	Yesterday there will be a judgment in the Supreme Court. There, pilots and cabin crews in Norwegian did not understand that they were also added to the Norwegian parent company when they were added to their own pilot and cabin crew companies in the Norwegian group. In this judgment, the Supreme Court states quite openly that new ways of organising operations may challenge the aims of the labour law to ensure safe conditions of addition. They also write that it's the lawman's task to clarify the rules in this area. The size is a lawmaker. The working party is motivated to clarify the employer’s responsibilities and the context of the right of governance. My question is, is the government ready to do the same?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2712	Now the verdict has just fallen, and I have not had the opportunity to read it yet, but I also record what the representative Tajik has been involved in. I have therefore invited Parat to a meeting tomorrow morning to hear their assessment of the verdict and how they see it. There are several issues that may need to be considered. In the past and on several occasions over several years, we have also discussed the responsibilities of employers and how they should be designed. Now I'll first read the verdict, discuss with Parat tomorrow and hear what assessments they have, and then I'll see if there's a need to make any changes, but it's too early to say now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2717	It is nice that the Council of State has invited Parat to the meeting, but I think there are also several organisations who feel that they are agreeing to this, and that should perhaps be invited. I think it's nice that the Council of State will read the judgments before she finally takes a position on what her initiative will be, but when that's said, the problem itself is related to creative organisational structures where employer responsibility is pushed away, in and of nothing new. This discussion itself is not new. So I'm a little out to find out if this is how the Council of State shares the concerns of employees' organisations in the field so that a creative person organizes himself away from employer responsibility, and whether or not it shares that assessment as a matter of fact not having to read the judgments from the Supreme Court's side in order to understand, namely that the Supreme Court is so open that new ways of organising activities challenge the purpose of labour law to ensure safe conditions of addition. Does she share that turbulence, and is she ready to take hold of her?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2726	The employer concept has been discussed several times over many years. The group law committee is a selection that has been heavily discussed by both the previous government and previous governments before it again, and it has always been concluded that no changes should be made, including: because the concept is flexible and well-conceived. But at the same time, we also see that it's possible to organize in a way that might have some unfortunate sides. So the question will be, how do you define this in a way that will, on the one hand, maintain the necessary flexibility and, on the other hand, be able to open up what may be undesirable? As I said in my previous reply, I have not read it thoroughly enough yet, so I have to look at it. I'm prepared to see if there's any relationship that we should go into more detail, but it's too early to conclude now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2733	Then I understand that the Council of State is in the process of this matter. What is the time perspective of the Council of State? What time can we expect it to return to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2738	Now I'll first read the verdict and see what it says. We've said in the past that we don't think it is necessary to make changes to the Working Environment Act, but we're open to looking at it if it turns out it's necessary. It is too early to conclude, so I cannot say that I will come back to Stortinget until I know if there is anything to come back to Stortinget with. In that case, I'll have to take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2743	Everyone agrees to stop the crime of working life. Some people agree that it requires a prepared work environment law, and some agree that it requires greater powers for the Labour Inspectorate to comply with the law. The major problem of work-life crime is, among other things: for the manning companies. They are required from 1 January to modify their main employment contract and they are subject to other changes that must lead to behavioural changes, but it is important that it is followed up. What is interesting is that the government has not come to the Stortinget with the amendment of the Working Environment Act § 18-6, so that it can provide the Labour Inspectorate with the necessary legal basis to follow up the changes in the Work Environment Act, not least § 14-12. Why hasn't the government come back?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2750	Several decisions were taken in connection with the lease-in case, and the Labour Inspectorate’s competence in monitoring and sanctioning was among them. Those decisions substantially change the competence of the Labour Inspectorate. The supervision has not previously held such powers. That means we have to do an investigation job, and we're doing it well. We also involve the parties in that work. We aim to send a case to the hearing – this also requires consultation – and we aim to do so in the spring session. So we come back to Stortinget, but we have to follow the usual procedures to both investigate and hear the matter. We will return to Stortinget as soon as it is completed. We keep a good schedule, which is sound and as fast as we can manage to do as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2755	It's very special that you have to have a separate investigation of it. It is only the Labour Inspectorate that is able to check that the law is being complied with, and that there is something more problematic about the changes that have now been made in relation to what has been done in the past, I think that I am quite special. But it's the Storting that decides when that change comes. It's a proposal from the Center Party to take it up, and it's in the committee. Another issue relates to the regulation on HMS cards in construction sites. Today’s HMS card does not contain the qualifications of the person to whom the card has been issued, and in the construction industry’s report It is recommended that a central public register of qualified persons and with public register information be established. Does the Council of State agree that we should have such an identity that can be verified in real time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2762	Let me first say that the Labour Inspectorate has not previously had the competence to supervise private-law agreements. There's something that's decided that they should do, and that means we have to look at how it's going to be done. In the past, private-law agreements have been concluded before the courts and not before the Labour Inspectorate, and that is the significant difference. In the case of real-time HMS cards, it is practically real-time today. The implementation of the A scheme has also improved significantly, and the cards now work better than in the past, including: as a result of that scheme. So I know that there have also been questions about getting an overview of competence. It is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Knowledge. As far as I understand the Ministry of Knowledge, there are some legal issues that need to be examined in greater detail. There are also questions of truthfulness in some of the competences that can be listed. But I know that there's an expert committee working on it, and then we have to get back to it. There are a number of issues that are the reason you haven't.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2771	I heard that the good party colleague Heidi Nordby Lunde, in his answer to my question about child welfare and social assistance, was very concerned about local self-government. It's not something you've been particularly concerned about when it comes to local and regional reform, but it's interesting that when it can help reduce income for people with little, you want to defend local self-government. Then I almost have to ask the government council the same question: Child welfare is being reversed for those who are social welfare recipients. Why is a two-child parent receiving social assistance going to lose NOK 2,000 every month?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2778	SV also has a relatively selective trust in the municipalities. Trust only applies when the municipalities do what SV wants them to do. One of the reasons for the local reform is, among other things: that many of the municipalities are so small and vulnerable that they are in reality having problems providing their citizens with their statutory services, and there are several rapporteurs who have been concerned about this. The representative of the Sakariassen would like to shake his head, but it is a reality that many rapporteurs are concerned about the provision of services because the municipalities are too small. For the sake of child welfare: there are many municipalities today that keep the child’s fear outside. The municipality that I myself have been in, Oslo, has been in charge for all these years. Very many of the municipalities that SV – and the Centre Party and the Workers' Party – are involved in governing, do not keep it outside. There may, of course, be different reasons, it may be that the municipalities have other offers and measures that are perhaps so important to these families, and I trust that the municipalities will choose them. It is also important to note that most people who go to social assistance do so in about 50 countries. one month. This means that there may be other measures and offers that are more important for families in order to safeguard their well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2788	Yes, it is quite right that Oslo kept child welfare outside when the council was the city council, but after SV entered the city council, this has changed, and one has got a more equitable arrangement for the families. But my next question is related to the lay-offs, because you have to reduce the number of weeks you can be on full pay waiver. But there are a number of companies, such as in Rogaland, which is still struggling, and which needs to retain this competence, and then one has to ask himself the question: what makes a party like Right, which very often talks about what is best for business, the best for businesses, go against the advice of a lot of people who run a business themselves, namely that you have to have a solid and rough permit system to ensure that this competence can be maintained in the company, rather than that it has to move on and that that competence disappears, which happened in many cases in Rogaland?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2795	Permitting legislation is, of course, a system which is extended and reduced by economic cycles. This has always been the case under all governments, that this is an important tool when it's time to rise and fall, and now we take it back to what it was when SV himself was in government. It is important to remember that when we expanded the number of leave weeks in 2016, it was to give the parties in the payroll a hand bill. It was a demanding paycheck. Six out of eight employment organisations opposed this. It was only LO and NHO who were for this change; everyone else was against, because what they saw was that valuable competence, which was demanded elsewhere, was not available in the same way. I fully understand that some companies would have liked to have extended the period of leave, but we believe that overall, for the labour force, this change is sound and correct, precisely because there is demand for labour in many places throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2804	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2809	The policy provides for the possibility of making choices on a daily basis, not least in the labour market policy. One year ago, the government commissioned it to present proposals which could help to increase the number of members of a trade union. The government has chosen to say that this is not their responsibility. On the contrary, they pay homage to the unorganised working life and to the unions’ deductions every year, despite the fact that high levels of organisation are among Norway’s main competitive advantages, and the most important thing we can have in place to ensure a good and safe working life. One year ago, the government commissioned it to make it easier for the unemployed to combine the daily allowance with education. The government has chosen to do nothing. They have chosen to ignore the recordings of the NITO and Tekna employee organisations, who have unemployed members who want to strengthen their skills and have more opportunities in the workplace. And the government chose every single day for four years to do nothing to clean up the ever-increasing use of rent, which pushes away fixed-term employment in the labour market. They ignored an overall trade union movement, here today represented by trust-elects in the Joint Union, and they voted down all our proposals that could have helped to clean up – until they were pushed into place when the Christian People's Party pricelessly chose to support our proposals on lease-in restrictions. It is about who you choose to listen to, what side of your policy is on, and what is the aim of your policy. The Labour Party listens to workers. We're on the side of ordinary people's politics, and we want a safe and fair working life where everyone needs it, and that gives a living. The right-hand side listens to the power of money. They're with the rich, and they're increasing the differences. In fact, they have been as effective in tax cuts as they have been in the first place in favour of people with high wages. They have been very eager to release the manning industry in Norwegian working life, and they propose cutting the number of lay-offs and daily allowances – active choices affecting the community, the safety of working life and the opportunities for ordinary workers in Norway. If people are to be able to live the life they want, with a welfare society that sets up, we need to do more to get the whole people to work. But the workline is weakened by the government's cut in measures that could have given people jobs, cut in the work that can bring people from social security to work, and cut that push young people into trouble. The Workers' Party will use the community's resources to ensure a work life that is safe, predictable and pays off. We need to implement a competence reform for the whole of our working life. Because what is good for the employees is also good for the business. We are going to stop the gangits in the world of work – no one is going to be exploited on Norwegian soil. And we're going to have a more inclusive working life, because in our working life we all need. In all these areas, today's government is failing. I have to say that the answers to the Council of State in the change of line recently regarding the judgment that came yesterday show how small the government is in action and how little they are really interested in looking for measures that can clean up. The case with Norwegian has been in the Norwegian legal system for several years. It would not be difficult – if you wanted a tidy working life and a working life where employees were actually assured to be able to relate to their real employer – to say that when the Supreme Court has concluded that today's law is not clear enough, we should be willing to work to clarify the law. This promotes a proposal from the Labour Party, we invite the other parties to join in, and we would like the Minister of Labour to also say that they should look at and be involved and contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2826	It may be worth reminding the representative of Grande that it was the government that changed the daily allowance code to make it easier to take education, and it was also the government that made a case about renting. It may also be worth reminding the representative of Grande that Norway is doing well now. But we have to actively use these times to get more people to work. That's why the government called in hard work. In inclusion, public and private work must work together, across different sectors, to get more people into the labour market. But first we have to stop a little bit and think about our attitudes, because I still feel that both I and others are preoccupied. Prejudice is based on lack of knowledge. It is prejudice that leads to discrimination and exclusion. For some strange reason, we think that people in the groups we don't belong to are more equal than people in our own group. In good Norwegian I call it putting people in booths. And that's exactly what happens all the time -- generalizations, over a low shoe. In the fall I visited the company Supervisual, which is operated by people with impaired hearing. The daily manager had previously been interviewing for a job where the interviewer had said that they did not play the store there, when he found out he was deaf. He ended up creating his own job, with room for more. In the 2019 state budget, inclusion rates are proposed to be increased by 125 million. kr. In addition, the government will increase the use of wage subsidies and improve training provision for those with weak qualifications. The aim of inclusion is to lower the threshold into the labour market and make it easier to hire people who have challenges to get into work. Job seekers with mental or drug problems should receive a better offer so that more people can participate in the labour market. And more people will have the opportunity of training to get ready for work. Many ask questions about the inclusion duo and ask what it should be filled with. I think that's a very striking word. In Norway, we are well aware of the concept of ‘dugnad’. It says we're doing something extra, and we're going to get a lot left for this extra. But it has struck me in the last year that we may have lost some of the old spirit of virtue we had when it came to including. On the Nav I learned this summer that some had noticed a change in the behavior pattern. While social assistance in the past was shameful and the last resort, it was now the first way out for many who stood without a job or education. In the past, a friend, or neighbor, would like to contribute, so that those who stood outside got a foot within. We have to brush dust off this mentality. Fortunately, many contribute. At XXL, young people are told that there is a future that applies: with us, the CV means nothing – if you want to work, you get to work here, but you really have to. You have to get up in the morning and meet exactly at the agreed time. That's what many people have to learn. These are completely elementary things, but not of course for everyone. That's what Thomas Myhre says, who has the position of inclusion manager. Nav praises XXL's work and says: From day one they are taken seriously, they are given decent workwear and get to pick out a pair of jogging shoes from the top shelf. We call it inclusion, says Myhre. And they do it because it pays off. Wages and salaries subsidies are a good tool to be simplified in 2019, while at the same time strengthening the number of jobs to be employed in Nav's market and recruitment work. This has been central to the work at XXL. In this budget there is also a significant increase in the number of VTA slots. That means a lot. Erling was born with brain damage and works at North Pole Industries. In the autumn he also held an appeal to us politicians about the need for precisely VTA sites. He also talked about the importance of the job, and how long a holiday can be considered, even if it only lasts for three weeks. I knew myself again, for it is good to have a community where one hits others. But Erling further told me that his mother had rushed himself when he lay in her stomach, and it had made him the amazing man he was. Talk about meeting their prejudices, during one sentence. Erling has an important voice, because he's pointing the way towards the society we have to create together -- a society where we look at the possibilities and not the constraints, a society where we don't put each other in a booth, a society with room for everyone. Many work on inclusion and do a brilliant job, but we need more on the team. Because as an employee of a work inclusion company said, "It doesn't make any sense that we see the possibilities of people, if you don't." We all need to be involved in the inclusion dungeon, and we need to now both see and seize the possibilities that are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2858	Unemployment is on its way down, and employment is on its way up. After the fall of oil in 2016, with increasing unemployment, the trend has turned around. The government has done a good job. The economy demands more labour, and for the government it is now important to use the good times we are in to actively get even more in work. We have a large reserve of labour in those who are outside. These reserves must now be mobilised. For this reason, the government also provides for a strengthening of budgetary inclusion – an important contribution to getting those who are most distant from work back to or at work more quickly. For example, inclusion dues are added. to enable enterprises to treat them with gaps in the CV or with other restrictions that have made the threshold into the labour market high. We have focused more on the follow-up of the users at Nav and put more money on the table for market work and contact with companies. We have strengthened and extended the wage subsidy and lowered the age limit for participation in qualification programmes, as we know works well. While building bridges between those who are out of work and the jobs, we are also concerned that the workline needs to be clarified and taken care of. We have to make sure that there are good incentives to take work instead of staying outside of passive benefits, for all those who have a working capacity. It must always pay to work. We therefore propose, among other things: requirements for the receipt of benefits, such as: for social assistance, where we have introduced an activity obligation, which has been shown to have a very good effect. By making demands on those who can work, we can also maintain and develop good arrangements for those who, for health reasons, cannot. The well-being we have must be financed, and those of us who can work must contribute. More people have to work, and more people have to work longer to cope with the financing of these schemes. Another important aspect of the debate on ensuring sustainable welfare through participation in work is the debate on what lack of work may have other consequences. Child poverty is a topic that has been up many times in recent times. Over 100,000 children live in families with persistent low incomes. The main findings among these are the absence of parental participation as a cause. In addition to working to get parents to work, to lift them out of poverty, it is important for the government to ensure that the children are given good opportunities. Therefore, in order to counter the legacy of living conditions challenges and promote social mobility, efforts for children in low-income families are increased by about 180 million. kr in 2019. The Government strengthens the grant scheme Support for youth follow-up and piloting capabilities of 20 million. kr, in order to reduce the risk of them discontinuing high school. The Government further strengthens the national grant scheme against child poverty by 15 million. NOK 10 million. kr. shall cover the costs of participating in organised recreational activities for children from low income families. The government has also set aside $5 million. for holidays for children from low-income families, under the direction of the Red Cross and the Norwegian Tourist Association. The system of free core time in kindergarten for children of low-income families is extended to include two-year-olds from 1 August 2019. In addition to this, we strengthen the housing support system. Area actions are also important. In 2019, therefore, this work is continued and reinforced with around 220 million. kr. The budget shows that we are addressing the important areas: work and inclusion, and work such as integration and poverty reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2881	The language is a subtle thing – it can blur or clarify. An expression that I have noticed that the figures of the government parties often use from this pulpit – so often that one would almost think it was a deliberate tactic – reads as follows: We all agree. Is that informative? Is the consensus between us really as big as that statement would suggest? Or is it obfuscating, an expression used to cover what you're really doing? After following this budget debate so far, I keep a button on the last one. Let me use an example - the importance of the taskbar. Is there one thing that has become clear in this debate, is that when we talk about the importance of the line of work, we talk about two different things. We all say that more people are better at work and less at social security than the other way around. Yes, even the right-hand side has almost taken over the Workers' Party's program formulation and made it its own, but we're still talking about two completely different perceptions of what the workline should and should be. For the Workers' Party, the workline is about what is good for employees, good for business and good for well-being. The working party will consume 168 million. kr more for people with reduced working capacity. So we're going to add up to 1.2 billion. kr for measures aimed at improving the equipping of us with the new labour market. People who can and will have the opportunity to qualify for participation in the labour market. NHO’s Director of Work and Inclusion said: ‘The draft budget of the Labour Party is aimed at those who are part of the labour market.’ It's not just us who boast of ourselves. The Labour Party's proposal is good for the workers, good for the business community. Then we have those who want to, but can't. They shall also have a decent life through good welfare arrangements. It's also part of the taskbar. When you talk to the right hand side, it means something else. Good welfare arrangements are removed or limited. The list of cuts is getting long, whether it's about the unemployed, the lonely, the disabled or people with disabilities. Yes, even people over 67 years of age, with less than the minimum pension, have been marked with the savings knife. People have to be whipped to work. There are extensive cuts at the lower end of the income scale, while billions are being spent on those who have the most. The government is talking about combating poverty and increasing disparities, but doing the opposite. It's dazzling. It's not just the Workers' Party that means it. ‘The Government does not provide its own inclusion powers with special assistance under this budget.’ The statement belongs to that NHO Director. The government is constantly trying to cover the effects of its own policies, but the effects are beginning to become clearly visible. The cut in redundancy pay is a good example of this. Clearance of work is a welfare scheme for those with reduced working capacity due to sickness, injury or lye. They shall be secured with income during processing, participation in labour-oriented measures or other follow-up in order to obtain or maintain employment. It was a reform that would provide more flexibility than in the old legislation. Individual adaptation should be the key to better results, but it did not. Instead of going to the root of the problem and getting the system to work, better and as intended, the government did as they often do – found the savings knife. The entry into the scheme was narrower, the duration was shorter. The Labour Party protested, and instead we proposed an activity reform for young people who were otherwise at risk of getting pregnant at a young age, even if what they really want is to work. We were then accused of abdicating in social policy. We had to realize that the Right’s way — cut access and duration — was the only rewarding thing to increase the employment incentives for people on job clearance. The newspaper has recently shown, through a number of reports, that the result of the cuts was not work but social assistance and private support. One after the other has stood up and shown how the redundancy money is stopped without notice, even before people are ready for work or social security. It is almost impossible to obtain an extension, even for those who are in the process of finding work. The civil officer has engaged in the matter. Nav can't get the decisions out of the way. The working party is therefore proposing today that users without income due to capacity problems in Nav should have the benefit extended until a new decision is taken. We also re-examine the job guarantee proposal for young people. We're going to be downhearted. The cuts in job clearance will continue to be, to the detriment of workers, industry and well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2911	Competence is our foremost competitive advantage in an increasingly globalized world. But for a high-cost country like Norway, it is precisely that our entire model of society depends on competence, becomes an Achilles heel if we are unable to train the right skills, use the skills properly, participate in the process of acquiring new knowledge, being involved in the necessary transformation and first out of using new technology. In the NHO competence barometer, six out of ten enterprises report an unmet need for competence. Four out of ten report that they have lost market share due to a lack of skills in their own enterprise, so competence policy will become an increasingly important field in the years to come. That is why this has also been the subject of offensive efforts by the government. I read in the Workers' Alternative Budget Paper that one of their most important steps in the field of employment and social affairs is to implement a reform of competences. In this context, I would like to point out that there is little reason to start that work again. In terms of competence policy, the Workers' Party could draw much inspiration from the work already done by the government. National competence policy strategy was signed in 2017 with representatives from the main social organisations, the Sametinget and the Adult Education Association. This work also represents the first time that the authorities and social partners have agreed on a strategy to ensure the labour market that they need. This is one of the hindrances that the government in the state budget is paying 130 million. kr on the reform of competences Learn all your life. Of this, the government will grant 37 million. kr for the development of flexible continuing training provision in digital literacy and 30 million. kr to an industry programme for industries particularly exposed to digitisation, automation and other conversion. In addition, the government will strengthen the Competence plus system, so that several workers can receive basic skills such as reading, writing and oral Norwegian, to mention something. At the same time, it is also important to say that training for employees is essentially the responsibility of each enterprise, and that our ability to adapt depends entirely on the seriousness of the responsibilities of the industry. There is probably a lack of a financial director out there who is temporarily concerned about spending too much money on skills-promoting measures for employees who will soon be taking it to another job. It may be a challenge, but the managing directors out there should probably be far more concerned about all those who are not filled with skills and who remain. Migration in the labour market is nothing new. It is a process that is ongoing, but as pointed out in a strategy of competence policy, technology development, climate challenges, internationalisation, change in industrial structure, immigration and ageing of the population in the years to come will affect the skills needs of all areas of the labour market. For the Norwegian labour force, which combines a high level of productivity with a high employment rate and learning intensity, there is a growing need for lifelong learning. The social partners are at the forefront of this work. In this context, it is also worth mentioning that a serious working life is an equally important prerequisite for meeting these challenges. Useric actors and labour-life crime undermine Norwegian business and Norwegian workplaces. This is why the government prioritises the fight against crime at work. Although opposition posts were not always to do so, there is a reality that there has been a change of pace in the fight against labour-life crime during this government. Seven a-krim centres have been established and the State budget for 2019 strengthens this cooperation with a further 20 million. to support technology and more jobs. This budget prioritises skills-enhancing measures and the fight against crime at work, while other important policies also make it profitable to invest and create jobs in Norway. It is a good budget for growth and development. And it's worth remembering that the most important security for Norwegian jobs is that we have a competitive economy, where it pays to invest and create jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2934	The government boasts that they are a business-friendly party. It's completely wrong. The conveniences that come to business come mainly to the benefit of the owners and not businesses. The government doesn't seem to have understood the difference. Norsk Industrie and others have been out there criticising the budget. There is too little effort to get people into the labour market and to make those in the labour market more qualified for the future and thereby create better enterprises. A competent workbook allows for flat structures where people are not bound to one task but to several. It is this that is valued by foreign investors who come to Norway. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party has therefore set out a far stronger growth in labour market measures than the government and the Christian People's Party have done. And if they are content with their actions, they should be even more content with ours. In the budget, the government proposes to reverse the period of leave to 26 weeks. In addition, a new model for the calculation of daily money is proposed, which provides lower performance. On top of all this, negotiations with the Christian People's Party resulted in an extension of the employer's period from 10 days to 15 days. All these changes will make it less attractive for the employer to use the permit instead of repeating. It'll be short and too expensive. Tonight, I received a letter from business leaders in Leirvik AS, Kværner, Westcon, Advantec, Wärtsilä and Industrial Cluster in Sunnhordland, who wrote that sustainable permitting legislation with the continuation of today's schemes is one of the most important framework conditions needed by the industry to maintain competitiveness. There are such things that are important for competitiveness. Some reasons justify a reduction in the rights of leave with the so-called "lock-in" effect – that it is wrong when a value for society, the workforce, is locked into one employer while perhaps there are several who are asking for the same labour force. That is the liberalist view. Then one has the social-democratic view, which emphasizes the interaction between the public and the private. We live in a cyclical world with ups and downs. Anyone who spends money isn't exactly just one of the taxes or efforts in the company, but just as much of the business cycle we're moving in. If we could get the companies out of such wave valleys better equipped than they were before the downfall came, it would have been a big gain for us. Therefore, good permeability arrangements are important. Rather, we should see where we can improve them instead of weakening them, for example. to increase the ability to fill skills during periods of leave. The ability to permit people is an expression of the Nordic tripartite model at its best. Enterprises meeting a pass-by period during which income is reduced are exempted from the obligation to pay during that period, and the government takes over. This allows them to maintain a relationship with the employer with a reduced but reasonable income and have a job to go back to when the job arrives. For the employer, reduced labour costs mean while retaining all the values invested in valuable and competent labour. The training costs of an enterprise vary. Before, for example, oil drilling costs approximately NOK 900000 to train a tradesman, with deductions from the additions from the country. For the government, this is clearly subordinate, for they owe it to the liberalist idea that the labour force should be freely available without binding on anything funded by the public. They don't care that employers may need to secure the large investments they have made in their workers. As a result, they have also increased the requirement to move if it is possible to get a job elsewhere. This policy is a loss for local communities, loss for families, loss for employees and loss for employers. And for the state, it costs the same thing if people are on leave or get a day's money. It was also this policy that made them so late in their career in connection with the downturn of oil. Only in 2016 did they go along with the extension of the 49-week period of leave – and then after the threat of strike. I thought it was an approximation of the Council of State to stand here and say that there were only six organizations, the NHO and the LO, who were for this – that the others were against it. Remember, the lo is 90 pst. by the organised workers, and the NHO represents all organised enterprises. Keep the permit rules. The government is investing too little in the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2959	This morning I was at a very relevant meeting in the Stortinget techno group. Technology and lifelong learning were on the agenda. Relevant and meaningful actors such as the Technology Council, ICT Norway, the Adult Education Association, the NHO and a technology company developing game-based training were there. The evaluations and views expressed in the Dialogue Meeting gave a good confirmation that the Workers’ Party’s competence reform and digitisation policy are aimed at the right objectives and have inputs that will deliver results. Society and working life are changing so rapidly that the political responsibility for giving everyone the opportunity to learn life must become clear to everyone. What we're now going into is a reality where automation and digitisation change the working life significantly. Some jobs are going to be lost, new industries and occupations are coming, but first and foremost the job content – the tasks – is going to change radically for many of us. In Norway, compared with many other countries, we have been better protected to meet this trend. We have a competent workforce. The Norwegian model, with high employment, economic redistribution, welfare and tripartite cooperation, has given us the advantage of many who envy us. But it's not obvious. It still needs to be defended against any deterioration from the right. Responding to the challenges posed by, inter alia: The digitalisation revolution creates, is to build on and develop the Norwegian model. Lifelong learning should be of course part of our community organisation. Digitalisation is going to require us to implement new technologies. Competence is going to be more of a freshman, and more people are going to change jobs more often. The biggest challenge to ensure a competitive business and work for all is that we have the right skills. However, while more and more enterprises and people are in need of a level of skills, participation in continuing training in Norway is falling. Unfortunately, the government's response to this unmet need for competence is a rather trifling competence reform without funding and without the rights of the employee and with quite scattered actions. The government pays the companies and will not commit to the reform of competence. I just want to give a little lightning course to the representative Tonning Riise: In spring 2016, the Workers' Party launched its reform for lifelong competence building. That the Right came after in the 2017 election campaign was fine, but it was not the first edition. That's the way – that's when the course was over. What we want is a major and comprehensive reform of labour skills that will provide more work, more people will stay in work, and we will get better results in the workplace. We make sure that people learn at work and on their way to work. We know that the individual’s abilities and competences are Norway’s most valuable resource. That's why this is one of our real big efforts. We have $12 billion. kr to this in our budget. Unlike the government, we deliver a real reform, with the right to continuing education and funding. Today, it is up to each employer and individual wallet to decide whether or not to be able to continue training. We want it not only to be those who take responsibility, but also to include the state. Our reform is labour-related. It provides ordinary workers with appropriate skills to meet new needs in the workplace and business. We'll do this in common with the social partners. We want to draw up the labour market competence agreement to ensure that employees earn the right to continuing education and training, and that long-term work is done to meet the skills needs of the labour market. We want to set up our own expertise fund, where the state goes in and invests 100 million. in the knowledge and competence of the population, and we stimulate the knowledge institutions to contribute to more continuing education and training. We believe that good professional environments around the country will set up business and labour-related learning programmes adapted to several businesses and industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2978	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e2984	What got me to take the floor here was Heidi Nordby Lunde's article earlier this evening, where she gave some descriptions of the situation when people looked at the trade movement. I would like to place a little site from the Jeløya statement: ‘The Government will further develop the best in the Norwegian model and considers it to be a competitive advantage for Norway with an equal and inclusive working life with a high level of organisation.’ A competitive advantage with a high degree of organisation – in view of this, I do not fully understand what the representative Lunde wanted to achieve. It's true that not everyone in the trade movement is happy with everything that happens – there's a certain percentage for it, and I know all about it – but it's not like all right-wing members in Oslo are happy with the big ones they like. That doesn't mean one should cut out party support and all those things to keep the institutions. That is exactly what this is all about. We need the trade union movement, the institution, a pole in Norwegian society, because it makes us a better nation, a better society, and we get a better competitiveness. That's what the government's kind of lacks. They have recognised that it should be done, but it will not be followed up. So it was said that there are a lot of people who don't want to get organized, because they feel that the trade movement is driving a lot of party politics. The trade union movement is composed. Ein has LO, who has a collaboration with the Labour Party, but there is no other organisation at all that covers half of the working life. That's how people can choose whether they want to be in that organisation or organisation, and if they go into an organisation that stands for a party-political line that they don't like, it's free to join and change it. It is not an argument to not have a professional movement and not to strengthen your professional movement. I think what the government says in the Jeløia statement is very good, very sensible, very correct, but what the representatives say about strengthening the trade movement when it comes to concrete things is not positive at all, because they counterworkers say they have a statement with what is told. I think you should do more to fulfill what you have said in your statement. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3000	First, a little bit of history: King Louis 14's regulatory finance minister, Jean-Baptiste Colbert, once asked French businessmen what the state could do to strengthen the economy. Businessman Le Gendre replied laconically: «Laissez-nous faire». Directly translated means: let's do, but in the transmitted sense: let's do whatever we think is appropriate. «Laissez faire» has since been a slogan for us who want a free, independent market, limited state power and the absence of political regulation. It's about creating jobs. It's good and good as intention, but we're not the ones that create neither jobs nor values. Our job is to help those who actually do it, those who go to work every day, work hard and produce, and then I don't mean you who go to work every day in Stortinget. It's not that the future is linear. We don't know what's going on either tomorrow or next year. It is unlikely that representatives in this room could have foreseen and adopted smartphones, social media – or the next that had to come. For this reason, our most important task is not to adopt and distribute, but to remove restrictions for those who can move the world. In the position, the majority of the Labour and Social Committee points out that an increasing proportion of Norwegians receive social security and that the periods during which they receive social security are shorter. That's good news. But it's not a health sign that it's still at the base of 20 pst. of the population aged between 18 and 66 receiving the tax money of others. These figures need to be further reduced, both in order to preserve the sustainability of the welfare state and, as important as possible, in order to reduce exclusion. Where a person is first required to pay benefits on such a scale, there should be a minimum common multiple in order to minimise the loss on the road. That is why I am pleased that the government is continuing modernisation measures in ICT in welfare management. This contributes to a more efficient public sector. The funds collected through taxes and taxes are not something we've got to use as we want, that's something we've taken, that needs to be managed with respect and responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3013	Now I'm not a claw in French, as the previous speaker is clearly, but I got what the meaning of his posts was, that we're going to have a society without regulation and without political control over important social processes. It's worth noting, and that might explain why it's been almost hopeless to bring in today's government on, for example. regulation of rents and a number of other proposals that we believe could have contributed to cleaning up unworthy pay and working conditions, as we see in parts of Norwegian working life. It's said very interesting in addition to this from the right-hand side representatives. Erlend Wiborg attacks the Workers' Party in order to want to give tax relief to people who choose to be trade-organized, and clearly shows that yes, the Advance Party has chosen side. They are not among the workers and on their side, but they are on the side of the rich, those with high wages, who obviously need to get even more in tax cuts in the years to come – if you are to take what is said seriously. He claims to want tax relief for the workers, but the sum of the government's policies is that these small tax cuts are more than eaten up by more expensive kindergartens for the young children's parents, that it is becoming more expensive for the commuters, worse rights in working life, lower pay and working conditions, and that you don't want to contribute to people getting pensions from the first penny, to mention anything. Anniken Hauglie boasts that we are seeing an increase in employment in the last quarter, but the government itself writes in the budget that this is happening largely through renting and in the manning industry. It's not a social development that we want. So, Margaret Hagerup says something that makes me really almost have to ask the president if I heard correctly. She says that the restrictions on the rentals that the Storting decided were on a proposal from the government. Then Margaret Hagerup could not have followed very carefully what was actually happening. First of all, the government was forced to promote it, but what they ended up proposing to the Storting was that the restrictions on rental were only to occur within construction, and they were to combine it with the total release of the manning industry. As far as I remember, Margret Hagerup said on the pages of the NHO Service and Trade on the same day that the bulk of the population was clear that she was «inexorably sad» over the bulk of the population had arrived at it. This indicates that it was not at all on a proposal from the government that the Stortinget got involved and carried out significant tightening in rents.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3030	There are several people who have said that the decisions we are making now have to stand when we really have to give priority, and I agree with that. Because it's not sustainable, what you're doing now is increasing the differences. We know that society is losing weight, people are losing weight, and businesses are losing weight. It's bad politics, and you lose not least trust in society, which is almost impossible to appreciate. It is not sustainable to give tax relief to the richest and freshest in the country without any demands, rather than to spend the money on empowerment for those people in society who need skills to get a job, to contribute to the creation of value in society and to support themselves. That is why SV prioritizes money to it rather than tax. It is not sustainable to weaken the trade movement. It is the trade movement that has civilized this country. Without them, we had no laws to protect workers, so that it was possible to live in the workplace, or wages that made it possible for ordinary people to live on their wages. It is sustainable, and it is good value creation – there is no country in the world that has as good results as Norway, neither on efficiency, on value creation or on distribution. Yes, we have also been the happiest country in the world for many years. It's this base wall that this government is rocking. You do that, for example. in labour policy, and it creates major differences. It has to end that someone thinks that poverty is medicine for anything. You don't get well from being poor, you get sick. You don't get any less tired of being poor, and you don't get a job out of it at all – just as little as tax revenues for billionaires make them get some sort of social responsibility. The government has weakened the arrangements for those who have poor health or who are in a particularly difficult situation and need assistance to get back into work. It's about the AAP, it's about the Lone Caregivers. It must be better and more sustainable that we ensure that people get a year or two or three more with real empowerment that contributes to what employers need than that they go on social security for the rest of their lives. That's the choice we have. Therefore, it is completely unreasonable to cut, as the government does in several fields. I would like to ask for the floor again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3049	I want to take up the thread from my first post, for the list of unsocial cuts from the government has become too long to allow it to comment in the course of a five-minute post. A new cut that was launched this year was the proposal to cut in the social benefits of those who have extra costs due to coliaki and non-cyliaki intolerance to gluten. The basic benefit is a tax-free social security benefit intended to contribute to the recovery of additional costs due to sickness or injury. The government proposed a large cut in basic aid for additional costs to the animal diet during gluten-free diet. For people with cøliaki, the government proposed that the benefit be reduced from rate 4 to rate 1, and for people with non-cøliaki intolerance to gluten, the government suggested that the benefit should be completely eliminated. The changes were estimated to save a total of 410 million. kr, and for each individual it means the loss of social benefits of the amount of NOK 15 000 to NOK 24 000 per year. Once again, we see an example of how this can be used in words to obscure reality. The government justified the cut-off proposal with reference to ‘medical disciplines’, but without saying which disciplines it aims to target. When we dig a little bit, we see that heavy professional environments at the University of Oslo and at Oslo University Hospital are of a completely different opinion than the «medical disciplines» government refers to. So I'm wondering who it is. Perhaps the Council of State can help answer that question? An additional comment on those with non-cyliaki intolerance to gluten: they have no specific diagnosis, but they all have symptoms. Representatives of the university communities have shown that Nav has so far required these individuals to regularly demonstrate that they still need a custom diet. Universities have stressed that they regard this as unnecessary and directly unethical. They know that the tests Nav requires make people sick. The result is the same as before. The requirement is really just there to torment people unnecessarily. Fortunately, the Christian People's Party has managed to get through a lower cut and that the non-Cyliacs can still receive support. It is better than nothing, but the Labour Party still believes that this matter deserves a better investigation. For the same reason — in order to avoid suffering people unnecessarily — the Workers’ Party also proposes the introduction of a health care system in the form of a lifelong certificate for people with lifelong disabilities. Downs doesn't pass, and the fact that you're blind usually doesn't pass. We also propose that Nav change workplace organisation guarantee practices, so that the evidence is available when people are ready for work, and we want Nav to review their documentation requirements for the individual. It can facilitate everyday life both for individuals and not least the pressure on Nav itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3064	Targeting services, so that those with the least benefit most, is an important social liberal principle. In addition, early interventions and prevention are important both for the benefit of individuals and for the benefit of a good social economy. That is why I am pleased that the government is continuing measures that are particularly important for vulnerable young people, including those who have recently been in prison. the area bet in Oslo and Stavanger. I have to tell a happy story from my own hometown, Trondheim, who has really invested in an area lift and got good help from the state in recent years. There has been a cooperation between county, municipality and state. Now a city has been lifted that had great challenges for a while, with new high school, new high school, new kindergartens, new kindergartens, new sports facilities, a good park solution and at all very good areas for young people growing up. They've become so committed that it's a pleasure to be there at some events, and not least when they want to talk about the future of the city. Here it is possible to get something if you go together and get some help from the state, and I see that the government is putting a lot on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3073	The President may state that the district in question is called Kolstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3078	In the course of the debate, several things have been said that cannot be contradicted. One came from the representative Karin Andersen. She talked about it being dangerous if you increase the differences in society. Then I think it's worth remembering that Norway is the country with the next least differences, and that's good. But yes, the differences have increased somewhat. They also did so during SV's time in government. But where I mean SV bommer, when they say that if we tax the so-called rich a little bit harder, all problems are solved. The challenge is that the Socialist Left would have to pay more taxes, 300,000 pensioners would have to pay more in taxes, all the country's drivers would have to pay significantly more – and so I could take territory by area. Socialist Left Party policy is about increasing taxes and charges for ordinary people, also those with low incomes, so much that you need help from the state to finance your life. It's not a dangerous way to go. I could take the same example of the Workers' Party's tax arrangements. In fact, there are not 300,000 pensioners who would have to pay more taxes, but 210,000 pensioners would have to pay more taxes with the Workers' Party's tax arrangements. It's not numbers I come with. These are figures from the Central Statistical Office and the Ministry of Finance, which have been based on the proposals of the Labour Party. Politics is about prioritizing. There is an impression here that the budget adopted today is cold and unsocial. But it is – with respect to reporting – the largest budget in the field of employment and social affairs. Nearly 450 B.C.E. kr is now distributed for good purposes, so then I think it's a little special to say that it's a very cold and unsocial budget. But we're actually prioritizing. Yes, we prioritised a few years ago that married and cohabiting pensioners should not be punished for being married and cohabiting, as the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party wanted. We gave them something more. In this budget, we ensure – and we have done this together with the Christian People's Party – that lone minimum pensioners will have another promise. They've had more promises in recent years. We make sure to strengthen the areas where we can actually help people, but then I will warn against a slight rhetoric from the Workers' Party and SV. They simply increase taxes and charges so much that people eventually become dependent on public benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3093	The representative Wiborg could not have read the Ministry of Finance's own calculations of SV's tax returns, which clearly shows that everyone with income less than NOK 600 000 receives tax returns with SV. There are not so many pensioners I know who have incomes of over 600,000. Then you have to have quite a lot. It is very well noticed that the Progress Party has participated in – and not stopped – that they have lost NOK 24 000 in purchasing power at the time when the Progress Party has been in power. Here's what we're talking about, giving money both to what's good for people who're going to work, and to help them not increase -- because it's dangerous for society, and because it destroys the creative power that we're all going to live on. Not dependent on public benefits, says the Progress Party. No, that's probably why you've weakened the housing support so much that these pensioners that the Progress Party is adrift over, now don't get housing support. I can tell you that the government's proposals to the government budget say that an average family income for those who are currently receiving housing support is NOK 134 000. I repeat: 134 000. And the bout poisons are 92,000. It's in Prop. 1 S. It is possible that the Progress Party and the majority think this is right. SV doesn't think that's right. Bout poisons have increased enormously. The revenues of those with low incomes have fallen. Those who receive are getting an ever smaller share of their housing costs covered by the housing allowance. While on the other hand, we have a very rusty system for us that has and for example. can borrow on our own home. If I buy a cabin, everyone here is involved in breaking up my interest expenses. That's 34 billion. kr we have to distribute to those who can afford it, it says in the state budget. So it's a very biased development we're seeing now. It's a line of poverty and not a line of work. The housing market is becoming a difference machine. The government wants to make the labour market a difference, with major differences. There's also a larger section of the pay team. You systematically cut into what's going to make life possible, and where you can make the ends meet when you're hard and not at work and you're sick or out of work. It's not a good development. It's throwing waste on the important pillars on which Norway has built its society, which has made us an equal country, and that we're a country where people have basically had it well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3102	The representative of Grande motivated some factual information in this matter. In the case of rentals, the JELUEA declaration states that we will ‘assess restrictions on access to rentals’. Six months before the Workers' Party presented its Document 8, we presented a consultation note, but the parties were unable to reach a solution. We believe in basically good solutions where the parties can agree, and that it provides us with good modernisations that can last over time. But since it didn't work, the government promoted a proposition in the Stortinget. I think this was dragged further than what was the starting point, and that it has some demanding sides. The alarm from Oslo shall not be indicative of the coastal situation. When I've been visiting companies in Rogaland over the last year, and we've been talking about this case, a lot of people say to me, but you have to relate to the facts. Then I say that it can be difficult to get out in all respects from this pulpit. If we are to take our administrative responsibility seriously, we must have a greater share of the population in work, and it must pay off both to work, to invest and to create new jobs. The Norwegian companies need now predictability and stability, not anxiety and uncertainty. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have an industrial policy that threatens Norwegian jobs. Treasures will be greatly increased. There were doubts about the EEA Agreement. Restrictions are imposed on the farming industry. They threaten the conditions of the oil and gas industry and propose rigid tightening of laws and regulations that eliminate the flexibility of the labour market. It is a recipe for creating fewer jobs in Norway. We do not see a brutalization in working life. We see challenges in some industries and in some geographical areas, but there is a danger that, because of the use of languages on this platform, we will create a false description of reality and therefore mismedicine. On 1 January, the rental rules shall enter into force. In LO Currently in November, researchers stated that the proportion of rentals still accounts for a small proportion of total employment in Norway, probably still between 1.5 pst. and 2 pst. LO'S Trude Tinnlund fears that the statistics don't capture the real development, and she says she thinks it can be dark numbers. It looks dark for Norwegian working life if we are to continue to design policies based on that kind of scare-mongering propaganda and vision. The main conclusion of the Fafo report on forms of association is that there is not a significant increase in the number of unemployed in Norwegian working life. Permanent employment remains the general rule and the proportion of temporary employment remains stable. My desire for labour policy in 2019 is that we talk about the working life we have here in Norway, and develop legislation based on this, so that we do not suffocate serious business by treating everyone as criminals. It creates no new jobs, it doesn't allow for inclusion, and it doesn't create a sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3120	I received a specific question from the representative Lise Christoffersen about the cut in the support for cøliaki, where I was asked to explain what research reports we based on. The ministry produced two research reports: one from Proba and one from SIFO, which both showed that the aid was too high, which also gave the government the right thing to do. Then there has been a discussion afterwards about how high it has been, but it has been too high – there has been no disagreement about that. So a little correction: It has been claimed by several here that the government cuts in the support of lonely caregivers. No cuts have been made in the aid granted to lone holders of this government. On the other hand, there were quite major changes made by the previous government in the transitional social assistance to solitude, where one among other things. the cut-off number of years quite considerable. What this government has done to the transitional benefit a couple of years ago was change the support of the mothers who had several children with the same man and who might no longer have been considered as lonely. But the big change, the big cut, was the previous government that stood for – not this one. So it's not like any change is negative or unsocial, as it's said in this hall. On the contrary, I believe that it is necessary to review and modify welfare systems too, precisely to see whether they should be adapted to new needs and new users. It may also be worth recalling that significant extensions have also been made to welfare schemes by this government, not least protection schemes for child care costs for parents. So now we're reducing the age limit to two years, which will be very important for many of the families that I think most in this room are busy helping. Then I fully understand that the opposition does not need to highlight the great improvements that this government is making, but it may be worth remembering that this government also has social sensibilities and wants the best for our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3131	The representative Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3136	First, I want to thank the Council of State for the reputation we received for the Workers' Party's proposal on 700 new VTA seats next year. I think she used terms as a ‘historically strong bet’. We really appreciated that. So to the representative Erlend Wiborg, who is constantly asking questions. I want to put someone back. The Progress Party voted against the Workers’ Party’s proposal on the right and obligation of all social welfare beneficiaries – not only for them under 30 years, but all. Why? The representative, Erlend Wiborg, asked a question to the representative, Lundtägen, whether it was fair that a refugee in the same car accident as a return student would get so much more. I was just wondering if that student had any benefit from the State Loan Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3145	There are some things said in this debate that I feel you need to clarify. Some came from my co-representative, Margret Hagerup, who spoke of the importance of predictability and stability for business. Yes, we fully agree with that, and that's why it's especially true that while you're talking about predictability and stability, you're going to go in to change the rules of leave from 49 to 26 weeks, that's the opposite of what many business owners want, in order to retain the skills of their businesses. So it was that the changes that were made in the Working Environment Act would create more jobs. It was repeated and repeated by civil politicians of different shades of color, but the reality was, and the fact is, it didn't create any more jobs, it created several temporary jobs, just as the red-green parties warned against. So the representative Hagerup says that business is threatened by red-green parties. There she has also not the story on her side, because in the years 2005 to 2013, the government created 355,000 new jobs, and two out of three of them were in the private sector. So it's not right that there needs to be some widespread fear among Norwegian company owners the next time SV comes to power, at the next crossroads. But you have to be prepared to contribute to more redistribution and make sure that those sitting at the bottom of the table are also included, because it's not like we're creating a good society by just giving more to the people sitting at the top. We create a good society by reducing inequalities, ensuring better distribution and ensuring that everyone gets involved in rising times. I am very proud of the job that Kristin Halvorsen did when she was Minister of Finance in Norway. It is also about the fact that the parties in government, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Swedish Labour Party, have an allergy to unemployment, so even when there was a financial crisis in Europe and Norway, it countered an effective unemployment rate that could have stuck. It is on the Right Guard that many people have lost their jobs. It was too slow to react. In Stavanger, the rapporteur promised that one would create 10,000 new jobs, an election vow that in no way had any reality. So it's the Right that has dealt badly with the previous crisis, and it's the ones that have to take responsibility for the fact that a lot of people lost jobs and didn't get new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3160	Interestingly, the representatives of the Progress Party Theodor Helland and Erlend Wiborg lift a little on the lid and release some of the fundamental views of the Advance Party. It's liberating. The representative of Theodor Halland said that it was a free, maritime market that was the goal. There are few things that are more unfair, more primitive, more dangerous and create more social unrest and conflict in the labour market than such an attitude. That's the strongest right. It's pretty strong to hear. Erlend Wiborg says that well, it's not so bad with the financial differences, and then he says he has to admit that the differences have increased somewhat. Well, then we're at least on the same plane. The Progress Party and the Centre Party agree that the differences are increasing. The party of progress seems to be in a position to do so. So to Margeret Hagerup – about the story of the crew companies. The representative first said that what happened was the government's plan. At the same time, she later said in the post that there was basically no problem with freelance workers, because it was reasonably well organized. What happened in the case was that we were defined in the Working Environment Act. We were defined that the employment contract ‘permanent employee without pay between assignments’ was illegal. It wasn't the government that pushed it forward. No, there was the trade union movement and strong forces here on the Stortinget. I'm very proud that we got it done, as a result of that it grew up a clear position from below. The centre party made several proposals on the same subject. Finally, we got there. So what happened at the treatment. The government then tried to compensate for having to change the law as I now said, was that the crew companies would have a special rule that they and only they – they and only those, president – should have general access to temporary employment under Section 14 of the Working Environment Act. Fortunately, it was rejected. It was also clarified under § 14-12 that if you were to replace a permanent employee with a crew member, it required an agreement with a trade union with an employment right. [[2]] This was – as the Prime Minister said – the greatest defeat for Prime Minister Solberg. I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for being faithful to its basic attitude, namely that a well-organized working life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. I hope we can move forward, so that the crew companies will have two roles in the future. It's covering up vicariates and other intermediate labour – sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3171	The representative Leif Audun Sande has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3176	This is to Margeret Hagerup, who's talking about having to give us tough terms. I think I know the industry in the West better than most, after 30 years as a central authority for the oil workers. One thing is certain: what you want to do with the permitting code is not at all to give permissive conditions – not at all. In the letter I received tonight from the Sunnhordland industry, they write, among other things.: The consequences of changing the permissive regime may have disastrous consequences for some enterprises, where the choice is to terminate core competence, which in turn leads to the absence of a basis for continued operation — catastrophic effects. It's not a good idea at all, you're doing it. It's devastating for the serious businesses. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3181	The next speaker is the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3186	The placement scheme must be one of a few schemes in which the Workers' Party, SV and, in part, the Centre's party really stands on the employer's side – without taking into account the employee. The representative of the Sakarianssen pointed out that the scheme is important in order to maintain the competence of those who do not have a job, rather than allowing that competence to move and get a firm job in a place that has a mission. I would like to remind you that when the oil price fell like a rock in 2014, 50 000 jobs were lost in the next few years. These jobs have not returned. Had the government changed during the period of leave when the Workers' Party proposed it, we had pushed workers into leave from a job that did not come back. In other words, instead of allowing people to use their skills with someone who actually needed it, the Workers' Party would allow them to spend 49 weeks of their daily allowance, with a wage cut of 62.4 pst., which is the level of the daily allowance scheme. It is even more exciting when the representative Sande says that permitting is important for Norwegian competitiveness, and the representative Lundtigen says that it helps to take work stops and fill temporary needs. This was something we thought rentals and agency staff were supposed to be able to do. So instead of sending workers back and forth in uncertainty, with wage cuts in daily pay, we only wanted some moderate changes in rents to clear up the problems, so that they could continue to take up jobs and contribute to competitiveness in Norwegian business. But then it was obvious that they wanted to send employees on leave rather than that a staff agency could send them on to another full-wage job. Norwegian economy is doing well, and there is a shortage of labour in large parts of the country. Then it is time to normalize the arrangements to avoid abuse, and I really think that the representative Lundteg made a well-founded statement about it. The representative of the Sakariassen also shows the job creation under the red-green. I would like to remind you that L.L.’s then chief executive, Stein Reegård, said that two thirds of the jobs had gone to foreign labour, which most likely forced Norwegian labour. Then the representative Sande had a post that I really didn't realize so much of. Just because I stand for the government's Jeloya Declaration on a well-organised working life, I think it is worrying that the entire 30 pst. of those not organised, the trade unions respond that their interests are not cared for by the trade unions and that the whole of the 36 pst. they consider that the trade unions are too attached to lots. It may require a little more self-research in both the trade unions and the Workers' Party than simply calling for tax deductions from the trade union quota. I also feel a little need to clear up some obvious misunderstandings and claims that come from this pulpit all the time: the number of temporary posts has not increased. We have research reports on that. And the deduction of the union quota is not cut by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3203	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3208	There is a lot to tackle from the last article. First of all, we have labour immigration and that it contributes to the creation of value in Norway: yes, it does, but it also contributes to some of the problems. I have not heard that the Right has called for us to have labour immigration from the EEA territory. The reason I took the floor was that the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde said that because we wanted a longer leavement arrangement now, the employees are not allowed to move on. Of course, they're allowed to move if they want to. There's no one to stop them from doing that. But the point of this is what companies say, that they experience a huge loss of competence where there are fluctuations, and where they may lose competence, which means that businesses go down and home, and that it is destructive to business, and not building, as the Right clearly believes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3216	The representative of Arild Grande has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3221	Due to a short period of time, I get to sum up the rental debate in the following way: It is obvious that the Right has completely lost confidence in that matter, and that they are now trying to clean up their story – it is worth noting – instead of still standing for what they have meant in that matter. The installation from Heidi Nordby Lunde, which was held just now, shows how far away from work is from the right. The trust-elected members of the Kværner family in the Joint Alliance, who sat in the gallery and followed the debate here, have a long time to borrow labour between the various yards when there are wave valleys and wave peaks. This loses the opportunity to go to redundancies rather than to permite employees and build skills, so that when the jobs come back, the workforce returns with a higher level of competence. Therefore, both the Norwegian Industry and the Shipowners' Association and a large number of managers have now asked that the arrangements ensuring predictability and competence should not be cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3228	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7. At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 8 and 9 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3257	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, seven rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3266	The current age pension regulation rules were introduced from 2011, as part of the pension reform. The main objective of the pension reform was to ensure future pensions by strengthening the sustainability of the pension system when birth rates decline, while increasing the number of pensioners and life expectancy. In the future, there will have to be more active jobs for equivalent benefits to current pensioners. The old-age pension from population protection is governed annually by the legal rules laid down by a broad majority of the population at Stortinget. An integral part of the pension agreement was that pensions should be regulated on a basis in the expected wage growth in the regulatory year, and adjusted for any deviation between expected and actual wage growth in the last two years. A fixed factor of 0.75 pst is then to be subtracted, so that it is always to pay off at work. It is important that pensioners' income development and government pension expenditure follow predictable rules. On a proposal from the government of Stoltenberg II, Stortinget has provided for this by providing a full legal and regulatory framework for the regulation. Among other things, it is stated in the law that accrued-to-date pension entitlements are to be revalued annually with general salary growth. A majority in the Committee, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, will keep regulation as it is today, and believes that with today's growth in the economy it will be better for the pensioners in the time to come than if it were to change. A minority, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV, will change the regulatory principles and reintroduce the practice of presenting the social security settlement as their own case to the Stortinget. In recent years, the government has implemented several other measures that have strengthened pensions for large groups of pensioners. In 2016, the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners was increased from 85 to 90 p.p. and the minimum pension is increased in three cycles after 2016. The government's tax relief means that post-tax developments are better than pre-tax developments. The crucial thing is how much is left when the pension is regulated and the tax paid. That's the whole thing that counts. There is a close link between the regulation of old-age pensions during payment and other elements of the old-age pension system. Therefore, it will not be possible to introduce the right to negotiate on one of the elements, we say on the regulatory issue itself. Nor does it make sense to move the social security settlement back to Stortinget, but to deal with the matter in connection with the state budget, as it is today. The discussion institute changed slightly after the pension reform in 2011, precisely because the regulation follows directly by law and regulation. The results are largely obtained after the availability of the relevant figures from the revised national budget and the Technical Calculations Committee for Wages and salaries. With these provisions at the bottom, it is difficult to imagine the establishment of so-called real negotiations between the State and the organisations. Originally, the Pensioners Association and the LO were the leading organisations involved in the annual regulation of the basic amount and pensions through the deliberations with the governments. Discussions have been extended to four pensioners’ organisations, two organisations for disabled persons and four employee organisations. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that the right to debate has also been respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3283	The case concerns the SV's proposal to provide full treatment to social security settlements in the Stortingen in order to show the older people in the country the respect they deserve. There is a great deal of disagreement in the Committee on the subject. Government parties, together with the Workers' Party, oppose the granting of negotiating rights to pensioners' organisations, while the Centre Party and SV are in favour of negotiating rights. I take up the proposal on that. Today's system is that there is a right to debate, and it was last formalised by an agreement on 28 November 2014. The right to debate works so that there are very short meetings, to say it diplomatically. The state presents its views, the organisations tell what their views are, and then each goes to his/her own – with or without a protocol from the pensioners’ organisations. We also have a system where it no longer presents its own proposition in the spring. It takes place in the autumn, and thus we get the discussion about the condition of pensioners and the disadvantaged at a very different time from when one is discussing this in the Stortinget – questions about the future pay and working conditions of a number of professionals. So it gets little attention, and it's wrong when we know that pensions to those degrees are distributive policies. The centre party has clarified its vision in this setting with regard to forward principles. We have previously agreed that pensions during payment should be regulated as an average of wage and price developments, technically determined for a regulation equal to wage developments less than 0.75 pst. But after seeing how this works, and carefully discussing the consequences of a new system, we have also come to support a new method of calculating pensions during payment to be linked to the actual average wage and price, in line with the wishes of the organisations. What happens then is that the real wage increase – if it is relevant to get in some periods, which they have not received in the last few years – will be somewhat dampened, and the bottoms will also be somewhat dampened. So one gets a more even development of pensions than today. One will at least guard against the clear and strong real income reductions that today's system has given. With regard to the future system, it is, as I said, that pensions are policy on distribution, and in any policy on distribution, it is important that one has knowledge of the population and that one has knowledge of the Storting. What is therefore the central party's position on this question is, summarised, simply like this: the settlement of the pensioners is dealt with each spring in the Storting in a separate proposition. The size of the capital determines the appropriations for pensions, i.e. what is going to be the government's expenditure. And not least, the Storting says its point. The Storting says its opinion about what has happened, and what will happen in next year's negotiations. This will provide the parties, both the state and the organisations, with a clear framework for negotiating next year. One must act within those limits, for that is the will of the Great One. It is important that we provide a numerical basis similar to that of the Technical Calculation Committee in the LO and NHO settlements, so that those negotiations take place on the most agreed basis possible, and then the negotiations and the right to negotiate take place within these frameworks. If the organisations will then give priority to those who are poor at retirement, they will have an opportunity to do so. I would like to say that, on the part of the Centre Party, it would be natural to premise on the annual treatment, so that there is something that will be given priority in the forthcoming pension negotiations. What we are then up to is that the right to negotiate and the result there – whether there is agreement or disagreement – is a preparation for the final consideration of the Stortinge. This is a system that gives pensioners rights, but it also gives them obligations, and it's a forward-looking system when we know how many people depend on pensions to get good conditions in their situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3306	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has then taken up the proposal of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, which is in case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3311	This debate is really going to be a reprisal of last year's and the year before, and so it seems, unfortunately, that it will continue as long as the Solberg government sits. The size is not going to get the social security bills for real treatment. This message concerns the regulation of pensions from 1 May 2018, and today is 13 December. It's been more than seven months since the settlement ended, so there's no real treatment we have here today. Therefore, the right of discussion of pensioners is not real either. It's one-sided in government, and it's not for rich. It did not even help the former government council from the Progress Party, Robert Eriksson, to the Stortinget that it was no problem to fix. Under the Right-Left Party-Left Government, we are still going to have a situation where the differences between pensioners are increasing. It happens by the government giving tax cuts that benefit the richest pensioners, rather than the least. As your life grows, your time as a retired person also increases. In addition, the social differences between pensioners are gradually increasing. The lone minimum pensioners get a little extra through the budgetary agreement. The Labour Party has also had it in its budgets, and we are pleased that the Christian People's Party has managed to negotiate it into the budgetary conciliation on the Stortinget. But it's not right, as the government tends to put it, that this is the government's own work. It has happened in Stortinget, and the first time it was actually the Workers' Party that promoted it in its alternative budget, before the Christian People's Party took that ball. But there is one difference between the Workers' Party's proposal and the majority of the population. We believe that the 4 000 extras should go to all those who live on the minimum benefits of popular security, not just the old-age pensioners, and have added extra funds to it in our budgets. We're also going to continue to see pensioners go into minus when others go into plus this year with weak paychecks. Now happens for the fourth consecutive year, and this should not happen for the fifth time in 2019. Once again, pensioners’ organisations have refused to sign the settlement. The government has previously made it known that it does not care about it worth mentioning. But at least it makes the impression on the Workers' Party. We notice that it doesn't matter to the Progress Party either. It has not yet happened that the Progress Party has formally taken the latter out of the government in terms of social security settlement. In the case of regulatory principles, it is also possible to obtain some government concessions, even if the pensioners' organisations wish to do so. They primarily want the right to negotiate, as proposed in the SV representative proposal that we are dealing with with the message. The Labour Party does not support the proposal for full right to negotiate, which we believe violates the pension agreement. However, we have three suggestions in the two cases supported by organisations in a subsidiary way – two of them in the message setting – that the government has to reintroduce previous practices in presenting social security issues as its own case to the Stortinget, and that the government has to promptly file a case on regulatory principles based on the average wage and price. In the vote on the proposal for a representative, we ask the government to assess the options for re-priorities in the framework of the right to debate. That is what we consider, in principle, not to be a breach of the pension agreement, but rather to take into account the desire of the largest of the pensioners' organisations to be able to contribute to reducing social differences between pensioners, within the framework of the pension agreement. The size has never been given any political explanation, just one technical explanation, of why the government stopped offering social security payments to the Stortinget. Repeated opposition proposals to reintroduce previous practices are downgraded. This is probably how it will continue, if none of the government parties turn around, at least to the settlement in 2022. Until then, pensioners will probably have to be very careful about hoping for better time for employees, so that pensioners can get back into the business. So far, as I said, there's four year's coals of pensioners who have never experienced anything else from taking out a pension, but from that point on, the pension has only been reduced in value. It's not fair, as the Labour Party sees it. I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is included in the two cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3328	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3333	I think it's important when we discuss this matter, to look at what's behind it, what's the story. The story is based on the fact that the then red-green government stood in the chest and got through a pension settlement in the Stortinget. The agreement was adopted by several rounds. There was only one political party that consistently chose to vote against the pension agreement, and it was the Progress Party. The reason why we voted against it is a number of the challenges we now see. Jens Stoltenberg has also pointed out that some of what he is most proud of from the red-green period is the pension agreement. And what are the main factors in the pension agreement? One important factor is underregulation, i.e. the country's pensioners are going to have a lower income growth than the rest of society. It was a model that the Progress Party voted against. We thought that the country's pensioners should initially have the same growth as the rest of society. So today's debate is really about two things: one is the process of the Storting, and the other is underregulation. Let's start with Storting's procedure: we're dealing with this case today not only because the Socialist Left Party has promoted a Document 8 proposal, where they clearly regret some of what they did in the Red-Green Government, but we're dealing with a big message today that takes a complete overview of the pensioners' economy, and that's important. As I tried to illustrate in the budget debate earlier today, it's not just what you get in retirement that is crucial for the country's pensioners; it's also what you pay in taxes, and what the other conditions are – how much do you have to cover your expenses on an ongoing basis? That's what's interesting. Although the Progress Party was – and is – against the underregulation, I am pleased that we have a government that has managed to strengthen the economy of pensioners in many other areas, as well as the big message – for those who have actually read it – clearly shows: that the country's pensioners come out of several of the grips the government has taken. Among other things, the country's pensioners are well aware that we have reduced the tax burden – contrary to the massive tax increases that the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party want to impose on them. It turns out that the country's pensioners are making good sense that we have reduced the unsocial abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners, i.e. that you have to get less in your basic pension only because you are married or live together. Originally it was at 25 p.m., in its time, and then the Progress Party through the Bondevik government was able to negotiate it down to 15 p.m. In the previous ageing period, we reduced it to 10 pst. – to strong protests from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. There we made sure that married and cohabiting pensioners get over 8 000 more to go with this year, to strong criticism from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party! If they want to reintroduce it, time will show. I really hope they won't. In addition, in several budgetary conciliations with the Christian People's Party, we have been given a strengthening for lonely minimum pensioners, which I think is good and important. So, yes, the Progress Party is not getting a full impact on our primary view of pensions. We assume that we were the only party against the pension agreement, and therefore I am proud that, together with our good partners in the government and the Christian People's Party, we have managed to strengthen the economy of the pensioners in total. Finally, I would encourage all the country's pensioners who now hear beautiful words from this pulpit, to go in and see if the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party or the Central Party actually allocate more money to the country's pensioners in this budget, or if the only pensioners actually end up with are increased taxes and taxes. That is what is actually the reality. So the country's pensioners get better with this government, which the big message clearly shows, but it also deserves those who were with and built the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3352	The two issues that we are discussing here are how to set up society so that all citizens, including the elderly, will have the opportunity to participate both in the growth of wealth and in democratic processes that affect them themselves. In both of these areas, the government and the majority of the Grand Duchy are conducting wrong policies. The pensioners have received a negative real income growth in all social security settlements since 2015. Four years in a row, the government has gone in to cut the income of many of the country's pensioners. Prior to the social security settlement, the Pensioners Association presented estimates showing that a pensioner with NOK 250000 in retirement in 2014 has lost purchasing power equivalent to NOK 24000 in the period up to and including 2018. NOK 24 000 is a lot of money, not least when this is money that is deducted from an already low income. In the social security settlement in 2018, there was another round of real income declines for large parts of the country's pensioners. This week, the SV's alternative state budget has been attacked by the right, where we propose to lower the asset tax base from 1.48 million to 1.2 million. kr. For a person with 1.4 million. This means a tax increase of just over NOK 2000. This is supposed to be taking from the poor. But about people with 1.4 million. kr in Equation wealth is poor, what would they call a pensioner with 250,000 kroner in annual income? And given the use of words about NOK 2000 – what would the Right call it to cut NOK 24 000? In the beginning, we heard from some of the politicians of the Progress Party that the calculation methods had to be changed, but the criticism has ceased over the years, and now hardly anyone is surprised when the pensioners for the fourth consecutive year lose their purchasing power. SV promotes the Innst. 95 S for 2018-2019, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, a proposal that the government should present a case on changing the regulatory principles for current pensions from wage development minus 0,75 pst. to actual average wage and price developments. The fact that the government parties reject this blank, although the pensioners have now lost purchasing power several years in a row, together with large amounts of money, makes you have to ask yourself if the government is at all interested in trying to solve this. Instead of putting in place a proper, predictable system, it has been patched up on the system for several times. Some of the changes have been positive, such as increasing the minimum pension somewhat. Other grapples have been weirder. When the government proposed to reduce the so-called curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners, this meant, in effect, increasing pensions for all except single pensioners. You increase the pension for everyone except single pensioners, who are alone to pay rent and electricity bill. This again triggered the need for more patchwork to improve the situation of the lonely. SV proposes, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre, that the social security scheme should again be submitted as a matter for the Stortinget. It is simply alarming that the majority of the Grand Duchy insists that the settlement of social security, which concerns an enormous number of people, should not be open to debate in the national parliament of the country. It is understandable that government parties find it convenient that social security schemes are not the subject of real political debate, not least in view of the way social security schemes have gone over the last few years. But we cannot feel that issues that are difficult for the government parties should not be debated in the Stortinget. The fact that social security schemes are not discussed in Stortinget weakens the democratic legitimacy of the results of the social security scheme. This brings me to the SV representative’s proposal to give full treatment to the social security settlement in Stortinget to show the older people in the country the respect they deserve. Here SV, together with the Centre Party, promotes proposals that the organisations involved in the social security scheme be given the right to negotiate. This is not about organisations being able to dictate the settlements, or we don't want responsible settlement; it's about taking people seriously by giving organisations representing their interests greater influence on the arrangement of settlements. It's about giving about 1.3 million old-age pensioners and having a real influence on your own income. Today, we have the opportunity to take action for the economic security of pensioners, to improve predictability, and a more democratic arrangement of social security provisions. I hope the Storting will seize that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3377	2018 is expected to be the fourth year in a row as pensioners will have a reduction in their purchasing power. The reason is the new pension scheme introduced in 2011. In the form of a law, the Stortinget has adopted a fixed scheme in which the current payments of pensions are to follow the average wage increase with a fixed deduction of 0,75 pst. With lower wage growth and increasing price growth, the real growth of pensions has been negative in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. This means that pensioners have had a lower purchasing power of four out of the seven years that the new pension scheme has been in force, when we include the outlook for 2018. In the old pension system, pensioners’ organisations had the right to negotiate against the government in the social security system, which made it possible to rectify disparities in income trends. The right to negotiate has been replaced by a right of discussion which deprives organisations of the opportunity to put power behind their requirements. Early in the summer, the Pensioners’ Association called for an alarm when the regulation of pension payments for the fourth consecutive year resulted in a reduction in income. In an article in Today's Business July 15, 2017, Gahr Støre says that the loss of purchasing power for the pensioners has been unintentional – it was not intended that the pensioners would lose so much. It has been unfair, and it has to be corrected. In fact, the right has also expressed itself worried. The new pension system is the result of a robust savings reform that affects the country’s pensioners. It may seem that the ideal citizens of the majority have a career of 43 years, relatively high income and no mental or physical obstacles to working extra years after reaching the age of 67. This is the recipe for getting the same amount of pension payment as the old population benefit gave to those who had an active professional life, with wear and tear and irregular annual income. It is not just that you can speculate on the pension basis with a few additional years of work now as the best-year rule and AFP earnings from 62 to 67 years of age are gone – for that possibility many people do not have in this country. That possibility does not include those who are retired or those who are out of the ordinary working life for health reasons. It is therefore essential that pensioners be given back the opportunity to negotiate their income trends, that the system of percentage deductions on regulation be abolished, and that pensioners be compensated for the years of loss of purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3387	In the communication under consideration today, the government provides information on the year’s regulation of pensions and the income ratios of pensioners, as well as the minutes of the discussion meetings with the organisations and statistical information. The evolution of the total income ratio of pensioners in recent years and factors affecting them is explained. The current rules on the regulation of pensions and their background are also mentioned. The size of the pension has established clear rules on how to regulate pensions through wide-ranging pension settlements. The social security settlement of the year has been fully implemented in line with these rules and previous practices. The regulations currently in force allow for the inclusion of expenditure on pensions in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs already in the draft State budget. By granting the funds necessary for the implementation of the social security scheme in the ordinary budgetary procedure, the Stortinget also has the possibility to grant funds to pensioners in addition to those resulting from the ordinary regulation. It's also done in recent years. With this communication, the size is provided with a comprehensive picture of the financial situation of our pensioners in the year’s pension regulation – more thoroughly than the previous proposal did. The purpose of presenting a communication in the context of the State budget is to have a clearer debate on the development of pensioners' incomes by linking the discussion directly with the treatment of the State budget, where priorities can also be followed by money through binding decisions in the Storting. The current age pension regulation rules were introduced from 2011 as a central element of the pension reform. The old-age pension is regulated as known by the salary increase and then by a deduction of 0,75 pst. For several years this has given rise to pensions in addition to what would be an average of the price and wage developments. This year, when jobs are uncertain and wage growth is low, there will be a smaller increase in pensions. Current regulation is well justified by the fact that pensioners' income development is proportionate to the income development of active workers. It would be wrong and could weaken the rise in pension reform if we were to increase the burden on the active population in periods of weak wage growth. It is important to see how the regulation of pensions is over time, not just in single years, and for the whole period as a whole, development has been positive. There are also conditions other than the annual regulation that affect the purchasing power of pensioners. The government has increased the basic pension of married and cohabiting pensioners. Through the budgetary agreements with the Left and the Christian People's Party, the minimum single pension has been increased by $4,000 in several rounds. The minimum pension for married and cohabiting persons has been increased by NOK 1000. An increase in the minimum pension level has also been proposed for single age pensioners of NOK 4000 as of 1 September 2019. Total tax relief in the period 2014-2018 is approximately 4 billion. kr for the old-age pensioners. These measures have contributed to a significant increase in the purchasing power of pensioners over what follows separately from the annual regulation. So for the discussions: the pensioners and the organisations of the disabled and workers are still involved in the annual regulation of the basic amount and pensions, etc. through the discussions between the government and the organisations. The meeting arrangement between the government and the organisations in this area has a long tradition, is enshrined in a separate agreement and is done in the same way now as before. I do not see that there are strong reasons to change this arrangement when it follows the same guidelines that it has always done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3408	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3413	The government, on its own initiative, has stopped providing the social security funds to the Stortinget. Whether it's calculating as a downgrading of the pensioners or of the Storting, I'm a little uncertain about -- maybe both of them. In any case, it means that the right of discussion of pensioners is no longer real. In case of disagreement about the frameworks, what the government has decided will be – thus basta! But what about re-priorities within the framework? The Pensioners' Association wishes to do so, including: to prevent the social differences between pensioners from continuing to increase over time as a retired person. The Labour Party believes that this desire may have something to do with it, and we would like to have a case on what opportunities there are for re-prioritisation within the framework of the right to discuss social security matters. But the government apparently won't, and my question is quite simple: why doesn't the government want it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3420	The social security system is being presented – that is what we are debating here today. We believe that when the social security settlement is presented together with the state budget, the parties in this room can actually take seriously what they say, by prioritising it in their own budgets. We have also seen over the last few years that other priorities are being put in place to strengthen the economy of pensioners. The representative Lise Christoffersen says that the discussion is not real. Well, the discussion is now being conducted in exactly the same way as every year — even under the previous government. No changes have been made to the way in which the discussions are conducted. But after regulating the regulation, the discussions have a different character than the time when the regulation was not regulated. But there's nothing this government has invented – it did the previous one. That is a good regulation, which I fully support, and which I believe we should continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3427	Thanks for the answer. It's all the time talking about what the previous government did, but in the proposition from the previous government, it's made clear that the pensioners' right of discussion is going on in the same form as before, so it should maybe take a new look at it. The pension reform contained two savings measures. One was lifestyle adjustment, the other was that during payment pensions were to be regulated as average pay and price, and then chose a technical solution that now, year by year, has proved not to be bleak in relation to the Storting's promise to the pensioners. We have proposed before and propose again to convert the actual average of the salary and the price. I wonder: once again, the government does not want, but does the government have other arguments than the purely administrative – that it is more tangled and complicated – to say no to this desire of the pensioners themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3438	For the beginning of the question: the right to debate is continued in the same way as before. No changes have been made in the way the discussion is conducted. The only difference between now and before is when in the year the money for the settlement is granted. Previously, Stortinget moved the money in May, now Stortinget grants the money in December. Besides, there's no difference. The regulatory regime chosen is quite correctly a simpler system than the alternative. It's easier to calculate how regulation is going to be when you do it this way. So it's important to remember that if you were to go back to an average price and salary, you would, in addition to a more complicated system, risk that when we go into good years, the pensioners could lose again, because they would have less wage developments than they would get with today's regime. So there are advantages and disadvantages with both systems. Over time, it evens out and gets the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3447	Thanks for the answer. The right to debate as before – yes. It is presented to the Stortinget as before – no, seven and a half months after the settlement has been completed, the Stortinget receives it. It is very difficult for Stortinget now to sit and predict what to negotiate in May, until May next year. It's the moment that matters whether the Storting should have any influence here or not. Pensioners' organisations are very aware of the risks of switching to the actual average wage and price. They know this on the fingertips and would rather have it the way it is today, where several years ago coal has never experienced anything but decline. Then I want to end my questions here by asking the Council of State: does she think it's fair that the pensioners get a decline in their real income year after year when everyone else goes in plus?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3458	Well, the discussions are done the same way this year as before, it's only the time of the year when you grant the money, that's different. Discussions are different when the regulations are regulated, it says itself, but discussions are conducted in the same way as before. There's no change. The size also has an impact on the allocation of funds for different purposes and initiatives in the state budget that we are dealing with today. When you look at the different regulatory regimes over time, you see that the pensioners are going to be pretty similar. In good years, pensioners get a better wage trend than would be achieved with an alternative regime, in poor years they get lower, but over time it evens out. It would be demanding to have a system that changes almost year-on-year, a little depending on how wage developments should be. It would be unpredictable and difficult to implement. I think today's regime turns out to be good, and so it's good for the pensioners over time, if not for a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3465	Anyone who has negotiated with the State knows that the right to debate is something quite different from the right to negotiate. The right to talk is a right to talk. The right to negotiate is something that gives both rights and obligations, it makes organisations responsible in a completely different way. What is happening to the right of debate today is that the social security system will be budgeted for next year. A decision determines the assumptions for the harvest, with a non-digital material. In the case of a right of negotiation, a few figures can be obtained for the current year, and the money is taken by the various items. It's completely unproblematic. What is the big question, then, is why is the government afraid to give the pensioners the right to negotiate? Isn't that a natural part of a well-organized society? The majority of the population can in any case change the result when it comes to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3472	One gets the impression that this government has made big changes in how this system is and how to calculate the salary trend of pensioners. It's not like that. We loyally follow up on the decisions taken in the context of the pension reform, which are almost total. There were good, important and correct measures to achieve a more sustainable pension system, which we are ending up with, and which we are now completing through the agreement we entered into with the employees' organisations in March, to complete the pension reform in the public sector. The size has the full opportunity to strengthen the economy of pensioners in other ways in the state budget, as has been done by the Storting, both in terms of changing married and cohabiting pensions, and also by increasing the pensions of minimum pensioners on several occasions. You have every opportunity to do that. We loyally follow up previous decisions in the Stortinget on the pension reform. I think it is a good regime that should be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3481	As I said, a right of negotiation is something that leads to a negotiated outcome or to a breach, and it is a preparation for the treatment of the Stortinge. Either there is a breach or there is a negotiated solution, it is up to Stortingen to decide what is the state's expenditure. The size can add – and can also subtract, if there is a majority in the Biggest for it. What we are now talking about is a system – that is quite correct, what the Council of State says – which the Council of State has essentially passed on from the previous government. We, who represent the government's government parties here in the hall today, have come to recognize that this system is not working properly. Our experience suggests that there should be a change, that there should be accountability of organisations and that there should be a change of principles. It is clear that at a low price increase and a high wage increase, today's system will be the best, but we believe that the system proposed is exasperating.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3489	The impression here is that there is complete agreement between pensioners' organisations on the reintroduction of a right to negotiate. It's not. There are also pensioners' organisations who want today's system, that the old system was not necessarily beneficial to everyone. So there's also a disagreement between pensioners' organizations. We expect a salary increase next year. It remains to be seen how the increase in wages will affect the income of pensioners, which of the regimes will be the most advantageous. Much may suggest that it's relatively similar next year, but in a period to come now, where we expect a higher wage growth, pensioners will lose on the regime that the opposition now wants to reintroduce. In addition to the fact that the pensioners will risk losing, we will also have a much more complicated and tangled system, which will be more difficult to practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3496	Several of us have now explained how pensioners have lost their purchasing power in the years we have had a bourgeois government. It is a development that we do not want, and therefore the proposals that have now been put forward are being put forward. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: why does the Council of State accept that the pensioners have lost their purchasing power every year? And why won't the Council of States do anything to change this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3503	In the previous debate we had, on the budget, the representative Faret Sakariassen was very concerned about the situation of the labour market in Rogaland. I fully understand that, because Rogaland experienced oil spills more than anyone. More than 50,000 people lost their jobs, including: as a result of the fall in oil prices. Many had to freeze their wages, many had to lose their wages, many lost their jobs, and so did their wages. What the regulatory regime takes into account is exactly what wage developments are like for the working population. When it's good times, the pensioners enjoy it – among other things. where there has been strong wage growth, inter alia: As a result of the oil industry, pensioners also benefit from it. But when we had a big downturn in the economy, a downturn in the labour market, the pensioners also helped carry it through the regulatory regime we have. I believe that the regulatory regime is sensible, and I also believe that we should continue it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3510	Now it's almost Christmas. Then more are going to go around the Christmas tree, and to Christmas there are many who like to eat pot. But the two exercises shouldn't be combined, that's to go around the cave as much as the council does now. I expect a slightly clearer answer in my last question in this reply: Why will the government not grant the parties the social security settlement right to negotiate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3515	Today, regulation is legal. There is a broad majority in this room that has determined how regulation should be, as part of a pension settlement intended to ensure a sustainable pension system also for future generations. The regulation regime is the contribution of today’s pensioners to that reform. Tomorrow's pensioners have a completely different pension system from that of today's pensioners. I believe that the regime chosen was sensible, precisely because it follows wage developments in good and bad times. In addition, today's regime is simpler than the alternative regime, and we see that over time, when we look at the different regimes up against each other, the pensioners are going to be equal. It should be the most important thing: that we have a regulatory regime that makes pensioners come out of it well and that is also easy to implement in a practical way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3522	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3529	The representative, Erlend Wiborg, asks, so we're never done here, we have to answer! He put emphasis on the story and on the government of Stoltenberg II, but I think that when the story of the pension agreement in the Stortinget is to be written, one has to go a little further backwards in time. First got a pension commission, then came St.meld. No 12 for 2004–2005 by the Bondevik II Government, and then there have been several stages in the Stortingen negotiations between the parties, until Ot.prp. No 37 for 2008-2009. It is quite right that the Progress Party was then against the pension agreement, but it was then. After all, the Progress Party for the pension agreement has even confirmed the Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, on direct questions from the undersigned. So here we have to have the whole story, from the beginning to where we stand today. So until those degrees, the Progress Party is now agreeing on the pension agreement that they can't even agree to discuss whether the Stortinget is actually going to keep the promise we made to the pensioners that pensions during payment would be regulated as an average of pay and price. We chose a technical solution that had historically been shown to give maybe even little more. We did it for simplicity, then reality got us, and then we also have to be willing to look at it again. But the Progress Party will not be in it, even if the pensioners' organizations would like to do so. So the representative Wiborg says that the pensioners get so much with the Progress Party because there are so many tax cuts that benefit pensioners. Also there, the undersigned asked Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, to get an overview of which pensioners benefit from the tax cuts — and these are the pensioners with high incomes, they are not the minimum pensioners. It's not the pensioners who have normal, normal average pensions, it's the ones who have high pensions because they've had high incomes in the past, which benefit most from it. So, finally, it was encouraged that the pensioners should sit down and read through the budget to see if they have got any of the Workers' Party. Then I might be able to give you a little reading guide. If one goes to page 41 of the budget setting, we will show that in the alternative budget of the Labour Party we have proposed an increase of 222.6 million. kr, so that everyone who is a real minimum pensioner, not only those who have an old-age pension, will get an extra NOK 4000. It'll find one there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3544	It was also the chairman of the committee, Erlend Wiborg, who made me ask for a new post, because I think there is a need for Wiborg to come up to the pulpit and tell what is the position of the Progress Party today, what is the position of the Progress Party as a party. Because we've been told earlier here today that one has one possible position as a party and another position in government. It can be understandable, it, I have some experience too. What's interesting in the article to Wiborg is that he traps a very hard judgment over what the red-greens did. He says that the principles of pension regulation were wrong, what the red-greens provided, while not getting any clarity as to what the party believes in the future. Nor have we been given an explanation as to why the Progress Party is opposed to the right to negotiate for the pensioners. The right to debate and to negotiate are two very different things. What is said by the representative is that that's good today, because then we get a big message that gives a complete overview – as if you can't get it if you get a proposition about the spring. A proposition about spring can contain all the same elements as a big message if the government wants it, it's no problem that the government is expanding the entire policy for pensioners. It is clear that pensioners' organisations will take into account what is happening in taxation, and what is happening in other benefits, because it is the whole one is left with, which is crucial for the economic and social situation of pensioners. Then I would recommend that the representative Wiborg come up and tell what is now the party's position, after the hard tirad he came along against the red-green policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3555	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3571	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to four rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time are given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3580	In this case, an overall committee is behind the proposal for a decision on the law in the referral. There is no tradition of further commenting on an employment dispute between the social partners. Therefore, the majority do not have any further comments in this case either. So I could let it go, but what I could expect to comment on is the mention of welfare providers in the comments on the case from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV. The right considers that the welfare society is best ensured through interaction between public and private and non-profit actors. Having a diversity of providers, whether in the area of health and care services, kindergartens or child protection institutions, enhances innovation and increases the chances of a well-adapted offering to more. This helps to ensure a comprehensive welfare offer, freedom of choice, user involvement, user adaptation and better quality for users. Therefore, the outsourcing of public services, where public responsibility for financing and monitoring the quality of services has been an important tool for ensuring the quality and diversity of service provision. It also applies in this case. In the public sector, there is also a strike when workers are not satisfied with the working conditions. It's their right, as it is in the private sector. The quality requirements for the services and safe working conditions of employees must be the same regardless of who owns the offer. All Norwegian workers must have orderly pay and working conditions. The public sector has a special responsibility to contribute to this and should lead as a good example when purchasing services from private suppliers. The right considers that both non-profit and private actors are important providers of services, as long as they are publicly funded. The use of private health institutions increases patient choice and improves and speeds up treatment. This counteracts a two-part healthcare system through a better offer to all. The patient’s healthcare provides the patient with rapid access to treatment and choice to choose the option that best suits them. During the previous government we saw increasing health cows and waiting times while the available capacity of private and non-profit actors was not used. In order to reverse the negative trend, this government has among other things. the introduction of free treatment options, and during this government both the waiting times and the number of patients in queue have been reduced, including because we also use private welfare providers. So a little bit back to the matter. It is the social partners who are responsible for the income statements and for the peace of work. The freedom of negotiation, with access to the use of means of combat, means that society must also tolerate the disadvantage of a conflict of labour. At the same time, it is generally accepted that neither strike nor lockout should affect society in a way that endangers life and health. It is on this basis that the government and the Storting intervene with forced pay – not because one of the parties has used a less legitimate instrument than the other, that is not the assessment theme here. In the same way as it is important to safeguard the means of fighting the worker in the future, employers must also be guaranteed the opportunity to react to conditions of employment in which they disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3599	No one can confess to the government because they intervened with pay terms when they did. They might have waited a few days, but with so many people out on strike and lockout, as it would have been after the last escalation on the employer's side, forced pay education would not be to avoid. Strike and lockout are legal instruments in a democratic society. A strike occurs when workers are no longer content with the price they get for their workers, and then refuse to sell it. A lockout occurs when the employer thinks he is paying too much for the labour force, and therefore refuses to buy it any longer. Work struggle is initially a strength struggle between several employees standing together and one or more employers. Who lasts long before one has to give up — the workers, who lose wages, or the employer, who loses income? The idea is that a democratic society should facilitate such power struggles to take place without any other consequences. As a result, the parties have been assured of the consequences that go beyond the enterprise, for example: against material damage resulting from the fact that something is not kept at the same time over a long period of time. This has been agreed in advance by the parties, so that remedial action can be taken without regard to strike-break or lockout-break. Otherwise, there are exemptions. They do this because both parties depend on having an enterprise to go back to that which is in good condition when the strike or lockout one day is over. No one can refuse to do work by stepping up more strikes or lockout so that life and health are put at risk. This could be ignored by the authorities, for none of the parties, after giving such a warning, would dare to do so. But it's hard. One might not in any way say that a party that has warned of a life- and health-threatening escalation does not dare to trigger the escalation. In addition, if one according to Norwegian rules did so, one must have blown off the whole strike. The parties may only jointly revoke a strike or lockout notification. Therefore, the simple and easy solution will be to intervene with pay terms where the consequences of the escalation will occur. As long as it is done, there will also be in the future alert labour struggles that put life and health at risk. In practice, this means that the right to labour within a sector where a strike can lead to a risk to life or health is not real. This is what ILO did when, in 2016, they dealt with the complaint about the use of forced payroll in the laundry rink in 2014, which meant that hospitals did not get to wash bedclothes and uniforms. In plain text, the ILO comes with this recommendation to Norwegian authorities: The ILO encourages the government to discuss with the social partners possible ways of ensuring that basic services are maintained in case of strike, if the consequences could threaten the lives or health of the population. The government has not followed up. The ILO is one of the most important special organizations in the United Nations, and I find it somewhat disrespectful by the government. It would be a simple matter for the government to call the parties to a conference to discuss the right to work in the light of the ILO recommendations. The use of labour struggles in which the lives and health of parts of the population are deliberately endangered, or a party refuses to intervene to prevent the risk of loss of life and health, based on full assurance that the authorities are entering into pay terms, is not a system in which a democracy should be proud. I hope that the Council of State will follow up the call from the ILO, contact the parties and establish a system to ensure that basic services can be maintained in the event of a work struggle, when the consequences may threaten life or health in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3619	It's a joint committee that now adopts the law. This is a serious matter. The NHO Service and Handels have provoked wage-earners through their lockout warning. It is interesting to experience how elected and trade-unioned people now experience the NHO NHO Service and Trade moving ahead to weaken a well-organised working life and weaken eccentric economic relationships between people. We in the Center Party notice that with special interest. I will commend the nurses' association for their conduct. They did not endanger life and health. That happened when NHO Service and Handel came with their lockout. They also said it directly, that they had to have lockouts because the companies did not tolerate the economic consequences of the labour conflict. The requirements of the nurses’ association remained within the front-school framework, so that, for example, nurses with ten years’ service should receive a salary equivalent to that received if they were organised under the KS agreement in a similar way. Municipalities and countries have, through primary health and specialist health services, outsourced tasks for which they are legally required to care. At a lockout here, both municipalities and specialist health services came in the situation that they did not have the capacity to take over, and thus put one in the scissors, to put it practical. So the basis for the strike was that one in the front-school model and what was negotiated in general as a framework in society was to distribute it so that groups, such as those with ten years of service, would have a salary similar to that obtained if they had an agreement within the KS area. The centre party is very clear that we support the principle that when outsourcing public responsibilities, pay, employment or pension obligations should not be used as arguments. That's pretty important. We have clarified this in our remark, which unfortunately we are alone in saying that the experience of this case ‘requires that the public should make the same demands on pay and working conditions as that of its own employees’ – that is, that the collective agreement that the nurses have, for example, in the municipal sector should apply, and it should be stated specifically if one has a political decision that these tasks are outsourced to private companies. [[...]] Thus, we get beyond the problems that we have now raised, and I would encourage at least the representatives of the Central Party in local government around to make sure that this happens, so that one does not have similar situations in any of these municipalities. Finally, with regard to the loose proposals that have been put forward, there are two proposals from the SV and one from the Red Party, the Centre will vote in favour of proposal No. 2, from SV, and towards the other two. We have some problems with SV's proposal No. 2, where it says: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that employees in private health care’ — and I stress health care — ‘must have pay and working conditions at the same level as public service employees’. ‘Health services’ are inexpressible; it includes many types of tasks. But we understand that as I said in our remark, that if municipalities or states outsource health services for which a care obligation is imposed, to private individuals, a guarantee must be provided that the pay and working conditions that apply there are in line with those that apply in either municipalities or state, that is. Specter area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3641	A legitimate and controlled strike was abruptly interrupted by an extremely and literally lethal instrument. NHO Service and Handel reported that they would have a place to leave or so-called a lockout for 501 nurses. It became clear that the NHO was willing to put life and health at risk of stopping a legitimate strike. Many sick people would be directly affected by the NHO lockout. Health authorities are clear: there would be an immediate risk to life and health. When life and health are at stake, it is difficult, and perhaps impossible, to vote against compulsory payroll. SV believes that it is the parties themselves who should use the tools and find solutions in conflicts between themselves. Involving Stortinget to end a legitimate labour conflict is no narrow matter, and that makes us very concerned. It is worth recalling the ILO decision in relation to the 2014 Rice of St. John the Baptist, ILO report No. 378 from June 2016. The government's use of forced payroll in the conflict was complained about by the ILO of LO and Industry Energy. They were given the support of the complaint. The ILO then stated that the authorities had acted contrary to ILO rules, and asked the government to address with the social partners how basic services can be maintained in the context of a strike where the consequences could threaten the lives and health of the population. If such a solution had been found as requested by the ILO, situations that were now experienced in the conflict of nurses could be avoided and the use of forced pay items could have been avoided. But the government has not followed up ILO's request. NHO's clear threats of lockout forced payroll. This means that employees in the private health sector do not have the same strike rate as in the rest of their working life, which is very serious. If the NHO continues to fluctuate with lockout each time they are in conflict, it will in practice give private actors in the health sector a free pass to end conflicts that deal with pay and working conditions, while the municipalities remain responsible for life and health. This should worry all parties on the Stortinget. Government privatisation instruments in the health sector are pushing more and more workers into an industry that has shown that it is not afraid to take drastic action in a labour dispute. This leads to a distinction between those working in the health sector — a distinction that ultimately affects patients. SV is concerned about developments in which private operators are increasingly the providers of services, but at the same time do not have the overall responsibility. Commercial actors, as opposed to public and non-profit actors, have benefited from the overall objective, and this will, of course, affect their priorities. It's a development that worries. Although healthcare is provided by private institutions and actors on behalf of the public, it is nevertheless the responsibility of the authorities for the policies pursued. It is therefore serious when the NHO Service and Trade are willing to use the means of power that prevent real strike and weaken the ability of employees to fight for their pay terms. Privatisation of health and care services must not affect the pay and working conditions of employees and must have the same strike right as in public services. This case has many important aspects. Nurses all over the country are doing a vital job, and I would like to remind you of the major recruitment challenges facing this sector in the future. We are currently missing 6,000 nurses in Health-Norway. We cannot passively look at a development that weakens the right of employees to strike for their own remuneration. Today’s decision in this room shows that employees’ rights are restricted by the privatisation of welfare services. SV believes that the government must take action to ensure that the legitimate right to negotiate and strike is not impaired. I will address the solutions proposed by SV in the case, and I will inform you that SV will also vote for Red's loose proposal, no. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3660	The representative Eirik Faret Sakariassen has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3665	Firstly, I am pleased that there is a unanimous committee that gives the vote – I think that is important in matters like this – even though the debate may give the impression that there is a great deal of disagreement about this matter. But it is not today, perhaps with the exception of Red, who has not yet spoken and is not in the Committee. But it would surprise me if you chose what I would call an irresponsible line, and go against the setting. I think it's important sometimes to take a look, because we're talking here about some basic parts of Norwegian working life. We're really talking about the balance of power between the employer and the employee. The workers have been given the strike weapon to build up their ability to put power behind the requirements, but we have, of course, also given the employer the right to use the lockout. This means that the parties have two strong tools, and I think that as a national assembly, we should be careful to intervene in the free formation of wages for the parties. That's why I took the floor now, because when I hear a few of the speeches, it sounds like – and we also see that from the proposals – that some people now want to tighten up and change the balance of power between the parties, and to deprive or restrict the right of one party and the ability to use those instruments. I don't think that's lucky. We have to have that respect for the parties. In general, the parties are able to handle this in a good way, and fortunately, it is relatively rare that we have to go to forced pay. The debate has evolved a little into a general debate on competitive outsourcing. Yes, I would like to discuss the competitive outsourcing, even if it does not initially belong in this case. Then we should have another, a little bit more general and general debate about it. I still don't understand why several of the parties on the left are so afraid to get a diversity even in the health sector. I think it provides better services, and that is the result and quality of services that must be the most important. In particular, I very much support the proposal of the Socialist Left. 2, since the parties will be excluded, excluding employees working in a competitive sector, the opportunity to negotiate their own wages. The proposal as it stands will mean that some employees in competitive businesses will have to pay off. I think that's very strange. I have been a local politician myself for many years and have been involved in the competition of hospitals, for example. We have both good and bad results. It was interesting to go in and see what pay and working conditions were then. For some groups, pay conditions were better than in the municipal sector. But as the proposal now stands, it means that the Socialist Left promotes proposals here in the Chamber that a group of people should go down in pay. It's very special. We must respect the fact that the employee organisations are negotiating wages on behalf of themselves and that employers are negotiating on behalf of themselves. It's not a matter The Storting should care about. What should perhaps have been discussed — but there is another discussion — is to consider the introduction of a national minimum wage and to say that there is a floor that no one should come under. Unfortunately, however, it is a proposal that the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Labour Party have voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3678	Then I can reveal that Red is going to vote against the use of forced pay on the nurse's strike, because we believe that the nurses fought a legitimate wage fight to raise the minimum wage in NHO's businesses. When the NHO went to the full lockout, the government replied to stop the strike through the use of forced payroll. We believe the strike should and could still be if the government had done its job. In the past, Norway has received international criticism that we are not doing enough to ensure the right to strike, which is a fundamental right. It's been mentioned here before, but I mention it again, because it's needed. Also during the 2014 washing-up season, the government used forced pay, because of fear of life and health. Then it was Industry Energy that struck. Together with LO, they got sympathy when they complained to the ILO, and it was because the authorities acted contrary to the ILO rules. The ILO asked when the government discussed with the social partners how basic services could be maintained in the context of a strike where the consequences could threaten the lives or health of the population. This clear request from the ILO should have been followed up by the government during the nurse's strike. The government should clarify with the NHO and the Nurses' Association how this labour conflict could be conducted without risking life and health, but the government was completely passive until it went to forced pay. The government's passivity threatens strike rights. It not only threatens the striker's rights for nurses and laundry workers, but for anyone who fights for a wage to live off and decent employment. The NHO member companies showed this fall that they put the profit motive above the concerns of residents and patients. The companies would stop the operation to stop the strike. Private enterprises in this sector also have a statutory responsibility for the care of life and health, and in most healthcare services exclusion of nurses would endanger life and health. It was a compulsory payroll that came as ordered from the NHO. It wasn't the nurses, but the NHO who put life and health at risk by going to the full lockout. The NHO should therefore have been held responsible. The NHO speculated in forced pay in order to avoid raising the minimum wage for Norway’s least paid nurses. It was obviously more important for the NHO to secure the profits of their businesses than to meet the pay demands of the low-paid nurses. Red therefore promotes a proposal to stop the irresponsible use of lockout by employers. We ask the government to suggest what can be done to limit the employer’s access to lockout when it is used to undermine the striker’s rights. On the nurse's strike, the nurses' union had taken all possible care of life and health at a carefully thought-out strike. It was not an irresponsible strike, but a strike to spare the users and patients. There is something wrong with today's legislation when even responsible strikers in a large association such as the Nurses' Association can be interrupted in such a simple way by the NHO. Then the striker set is no longer real. I understand very well the frustration of the nurses, who had to go back to work without having a real opportunity to strike. I even visited several of the striking nurses. I was told how much less they earned than their colleagues who did about the same job, just in public. Before the next main tariff settlement, in 2020, we need to get an improved law, so that the striker's rights become real. I'll bring this up on Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3695	The representative Seher Aydar has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3700	The parties are responsible for the settlement of income and the negotiations in this respect. The freedom of negotiation, with access to means of combat, means that in most cases society must withstand the disadvantages of a labour conflict. At the same time, it is generally accepted that neither strike nor lockout should affect society in a way that endangers life and health. With the power that comes with having means of fighting, there is also a great responsibility to use them carefully. After the mediation between the Norwegian NHO Service and Handel did not take place, 56 nurses were taken out on strike on 25 October. State health surveillance followed the strike carefully, and there were no reports of situations leading to a risk to life and health. It was also not announced that the strike would be stepped up further. But after the strike had lasted about three weeks, the NHO Service and Handels lockout notified all 65 companies related to the agreement. This meant that a total of 501 workers would have been away from work. The day before it announced the lockout, the Health Authority concluded that it would cause immediate danger to life and health. Their conclusion was clear and clear. In the light of the Health Authority's assessment, I called the parties to a meeting on 20 November. The parties confirmed that they did not see any possibility of reaching an agreement. Then I informed the government that it was necessary to submit proposals to the Stortinget on compulsory payroll. It would have been irresponsible not to intervene, as the situation had evolved. I could not have waited a few days – if I interpreted correctly what the representative Sande said. Anyone who has read the Health Authority's report sees it very clearly. Then it is mildly alarming if Red honestly believes that I should not have intervened – with the crystal clear report that the Health Authority sent. It would have been a direct danger to life and health. Forced payroll is not an instrument that the government wants to use. It is unfortunate that the responsibility for resolving the conflict is being pushed over to the government. I have also made this clear to the parties to this concrete conflict and on previous interventions and other occasions. This is my third compulsory payroll of less than three years, and it's too much. The minority in the Committee considers the use made by the government of compulsory pay in the 2014 laundry bridle. The intervention was then complained to the ILO by LO and Industry Energy. The minority in the Committee claims that the ILO supported the complaint. I do not think this is a proper presentation. The ILO did not criticise the intervention itself, because the intervention was justified in terms of life and health risks. What the ILO called on Norwegian authorities to do was to discuss with the parties how to ensure in the future that basic services are maintained during a strike, so that a strike or a lockout does not threaten life and health. Initially, I believe that the key to limiting the use of pay terms is with the parties. There are several ways in which the parties can do so, such as: they may conclude minimum staff agreements, they may use the rules of collective agreements on exemptions or agree to entrust to the National Institute of Wage to resolve the conflict of voluntary pay. All of this can be done without interference from the authorities. And it is in many ways a failure statement against the Norwegian model if the authorities have to regulate the behaviour of the parties because they cannot regulate it themselves. However, for the sake of order, I would like to inform you that I also decided to invite the parties, the leaders of the main organisations, to a meeting to discuss the solutions available to counteract the need for forced pay. I believe that state regulation should have been unnecessary, and I hope we can come to a common understanding of how to deal with conflict, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3722	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3727	I could maybe save myself for this line, because the last council said. Do I understand correctly that she is now in contact with the social partners to see if a system can be found, so that one avoids pay because life and health are put at risk, i.e. find solutions to problems that the ILO pointed to?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3732	I think everyone who was in that payroll room realized that the state was not particularly satisfied with the situation that had come into it – to say it carefully. The mood was not very good. I had decided in advance that I would invite the leaders to a meeting when this matter had settled, to discuss ways of dealing with it. The ILO has asked us to discuss this with the parties, and we shall now do so. But as I said in my main post, it is in many ways a failure statement if it is such that we have to regulate the behaviour of the parties. I believe that the strength of the Norwegian model is that we have responsible parties who take a great deal of responsibility. But they also have the power and authority to use legitimate means of combat, and that power imposes on the parties a great responsibility for just using them in a way that does not endanger life and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3737	The Council of State said that society must withstand the consequences of labour conflict. The Council of State also said that there is a great deal of responsibility with power, and that she has had three compulsory wage earners in three years, and that is too much – to say the least, to agree entirely. I can only understand that the Council of State could not possibly be pleased with the way NHO Service and Trade behaved, by provoking a situation in which the Council of State was put in check in an area where municipalities and health companies have care obligations under the Special Health Services Act and the Health and Services Act. What's interesting is to discuss and prevent such situations, so that we can maintain basic services without forced pay. My question is whether, as in this case, when outsourcing work to private persons, from the local authority's specialist health service, you should at least have the same pay and working conditions as those applicable to own employees in the municipal and specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3746	I do not know what was required, what was offered in the negotiating room, and what was the reason why no agreement was reached. That's what the people in the negotiating room know best about. What I'm registering is that the outcome of the conflict ended on my table, and I don't like it very much, because I think the parties should have handled this conflict themselves. Then I can only draw attention to the fact that of the three wage earners that I have had, one conflict has arisen as a result of an announcement of lockout by the employers, and two of the conflicts have arisen as a result of the employee’s having taken out too many. It has been in both the private and public sectors. To pay and working conditions: it is up to the parties themselves to determine pay and working conditions within their territories, but the municipalities and the state have the full opportunity as purchasers of services to set pay and working conditions, and there are also very many municipalities that do. Now I do not know all the municipalities, but the municipality that I myself have been in charge of was in any case entitled to pay and working conditions in their contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3755	I usually stand here with a serious face and a scolding glance at the Council of State, but this time I will open up saying that I am pleased with the signals that the Council of State sends now, because, like the Council of State, I believe the situation in which a port should have been avoided, and it worries me that the NHO used it the way they did. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State concerned that the future use of lockouts in labour conflicts in commercial health services removes staff members of private health professionals from the strike?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3762	Now the use of lockout is extremely rare. It is rare for employers to go to the drastic step – it is also important to underline here. And as I said in my answer to the previous question, two of the payroll members I have been involved in have been because the employees have taken out too many, and the latter has been on the employers' notice. My starting point is that the formation of wages is the responsibility of the parties, and they have a duty to ensure that their conflict does not unduly affect an innocent third party. I am concerned that good private welfare services should also be available in the future, and it is of course important that the parties also ensure that their conflicts are rectified in such a way that they do not endanger life and health. There has now been a pay bill in both the private and public sectors. I don't see any particular difference in that. Now I'm going to have a meeting with the leaders of the main organisations, and we'll see what we can do, but it should be unnecessary to regulate the behaviour of the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3771	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3778	There are three proposals that I'm going to say a little bit about. Proposal No. 1, from SV, we've been told by the Working Party that we can't support it. Proposal No. 2, from SV, supports us. We believe, of course, that there is room for the social partners within the framework of the proposal. Then that's the Red proposal, which we can't support at all. Starting to introduce some kind of proportionality into the strikerette, we can't support it. So we support proposal No. 2 from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3783	Everyone has the right to his own opinion, but not everyone has the right to his own facts. The representative, Wiborg, makes a number of claims about SV's proposals that are simply wrong. I would like to refer you to a statement in the newspaper earlier this year, about the conditions for hospital workers in the capital. The figures provided by the Trade Union of Nursing and Care in Oslo show that while a newly-trained health worker in a municipal hospital has a minimum wage of more than NOK 367,000, the minimum wage for a similar position in a commercial hospital is around NOK 283 500. This corresponds to a pay gap of more than $84000. I understand that the Progress Party believes that private commercial operators should be able to pay as a competitive advantage, but SV believes that those who carry the welfare state on their shoulders deserve a decent salary, whether they are employed in a commercial company operating a nursing home, or in a municipality operating a nursing home. Those people deserve better pay. I think the representative Wiborg has to see that the proposal that SV has promoted is meant to raise the salary also to people who work in private commercial hospitals and so on. But it may be that the representative and the representative's party do not want it, precisely because there has to be one area where commercial players can make money, and there are two places where you can – that is, in terms of pay and working conditions for employees, and the quality of users. That means that if we deprive them of the opportunity to do so, the competitive advantage of private commercial operators will be reduced. And that's the end of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3790	Let me briefly make it clear that the Christian People's Party in this matter is going to vote in favour of the vote of a consensual committee, and I think that is important. We are going to vote against the loose proposals that have been put forward. So I would also say that I found many of the reflections that have emerged in the debate to be good, and it is easy to stand behind them. This is true both when the Council of State points out that with the possibility of using power, there is also a great responsibility, and those of the representatives who have suggested that there may be special liabilities for the health and care sector, where a very easy situation is about life and health, and that there is therefore a particularly high level of responsibility. There is also a great task in resolving future challenges with an ageing population and a great need for more nurses.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3798	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3810	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. Case No. 1 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3821	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2–5, by Anniken Huitfeldt on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 6 and 7, from the Anniken Huitfeldt on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 8 and 9, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Centre Party, proposed no. 10–12 and 14, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 13, from Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 15, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red proposal No 16, by Anniken Huitfeldt on behalf of the Workers' Party Mr Henriksen has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3853	There is a need to give an explanation of vote since the Labour Party is voting against proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox As explained in the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and in the subsequent debate on case No. 1 today, this is not a question that belongs in Stortinget. It is the government’s responsibility – and the government’s responsibility alone – to make and follow up such non-binding declarations. There is no case in the Stortinget, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs was clear that she did not seek either blessing or advice from the Stortinget, and that the government also believes that this is the government's responsibility. There is no government decision-making basis, so we cannot decide on the content of the statement. We can neither support nor oppose the government joining the UN migration platform, nor oppose the government. On this basis, the Labour Party will vote against proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3862	Liv Signe Navarsete has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3867	As I said at the end of the debate on our budget area today, neither will the Central Party vote for the proposal of the Progress Party. The reason is much the same as the previous speaker. This is a matter for the government, within their territory, to decide on. We have not received a case order, and there is no basis for us to vote neither for nor against a case that has not been submitted to Stortinget. So we're not going to support that proposal from the Progress Party today either.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3872	No more words have been asked for an explanation of vote. Proposal No. 15 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the initiation of negotiations with the supplier of the fighter aircraft F-35 to stop the purchase of fighter aircraft not yet delivered to the Defence or scheduled to be delivered in 2019, and instead prioritize the defensive capabilities of the Defence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3889	Proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to terminate the stationing of American soldiers at Værnes and Setermoen.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3906	Proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the cancellation of the planned order in 2019 of six new fighter aircraft.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3924	Proposal No. 13, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to reject Norwegian support for the United Nations Migration Platform [[Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3939	Proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the forwarding of the purchase of tanks by 2020 through the purchase of a prototype in accordance with the recommendation of the Army’s Armaments Ball.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3954	Proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking that new EDI measures should not be evaluated until the Stortinget has processed the Allied Reception Report’. Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3971	Proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to set up an information post for peace on the Cape. Item 118, item 72, and make proposals for funding of at least 6 million. krones in RNB.’ The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e3988	Proposal No. 14 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the possibility of setting up funds at national level in conflict and post-conflict countries to ensure the restitution and rehabilitation of victims of conflict-related sexual violence. This may be done in cooperation with the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Sexual Violence in Conflict, Networks of Survivors and Civil Society Organisations working on the subject nationally and locally in countries where sexual violence is used, or has been used as a weapon in war. This is important to support survivors and to contribute to prevention.’ The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e4005	Proposal No. 1, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure consistency between the promotion of nutrition and human rights through the prioritisation of work on human rights in the field of business support.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e4023	Proposal No. 16, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requested by the Government within the agreed budgetary framework to deploy the personnel and material resources of the Air Force in order to maintain the current dedicated helicopter support to the Army and to continue the current emergency level of Bardufoss with nine Bell helicopters. The 339 squadron is passed on to Bardufoss with helicopter support to the Army as the main task. Helicopter capacity on Back shall be realised by increasing flight hours, increased number of operational crews and increased levelling capacity.’;» The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have every support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e4040	Proposal No. 6 and 7 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asking the Government to follow the decision of the Storting in the Land Power Proposition – drawn up with the participation and conclusion of the Government Parties through Innst. 50 S [[2017-2018]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate the possibility of introducing a modernised form of war-damage pension in the context of the notified evaluation of the existing compensation and compensation schemes for veterans.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e4064	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking that further efforts to improve and streamline defence maintenance activities should not be based on privatisation, but on the defence’s need for flexibility, competence and security, especially in crisis and war.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e4081	Proposal No. 2, 4 and 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to respect the Norwegian working life model also for the defence staff, to stop the planned house rent increase for defence personnel and not to implement changes without agreement with the defence staff organisations.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner, combining experience with the acquisition process of NH90 helicopters and measures already in place and planned for future acquisitions in the defence sector, based on the experience of the NH90 acquisition.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to secure helicopter capacity equal to the current level of the Army, at the same time as the capacity in the south is maintained as planned.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e7624	It's only going to be grazed over III and VII. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e7638	It's going to be gravitated over VI. The center party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e7652	It's getting wet over IX. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e7666	It's going to be over II, IV, V, VIII and X.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e10325	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-7, by Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 8 and 9, by Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 10 and 11, from Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 12, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 13 and 14, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party, Proposal No. 13 and 14 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish the necessary legislation to provide real-time information on who is legally authorised to work in Norway.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for evidence of employment for the population to be brought together and for different groups to be visible.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e10369	Proposal No. 12, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘As of 1 August 2019, the Government will be asked to have clear legislation providing young people with the need for permanent work in such a state-funded place.’ [[VTA]] The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e10386	Proposal No. 11, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the maintenance of current legislation on support for people with coeliac disease intolerance until a better professional proposal can be promoted in consultation with the user organisation, with effect from 1 July 2019.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e10401	Proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an activity reform with a job guarantee for young people on graded disability benefits.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e10418	Proposal No. 8 and 9 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to limit the tenders of the measures Clearing up and follow-up to non-profit actors with a prohibition of dividends and with particular emphasis on orderly pay and working conditions, quality, local conditions and closeness to users. The size asks the government to come back to the Storting at an appropriate time during 2019 for how these adjustments to the action have been implemented.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government is asked by the government to investigate and submit proposals for changes to the transitional aid scheme that provide real and complete the enhancement of skills that can be used on the labour market.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e10443	Proposal No. 1-7, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the automatic extension of the social benefit until a new decision is taken by Nav users who suddenly have no income due to capacity problems in Nav.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for significantly more investment in several AFT-designated action areas. This must be clearly stated in the letter of assignment to the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, which must also involve a division of labour between the Nav self-regime and the AFT action organisers in terms of the job of increased job links for people with disabilities.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government asks the Government to amend Section 17 of the Regulation on the official recognition of cleaning establishments and on the purchase of cleaning services so that only authorised cleaning establishments can legally offer cleaning services to the commercial and private markets.» [[1]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the rules so that the unemployed under 30 years of age who have started secondary education are given the opportunity to complete their daily allowance.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that Nav changes the practice of providing an organisation guarantee at the workplace for disabled persons, so that a written organisation guarantee is provided late on completion of work.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a system of health care in the form of a lifelong certificate for persons with lifelong disabilities.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the National Public Health Association can receive grants under the heading of the State budget. 872 entry 70, in line with other user and related organisations, for their participation and peer work for dentures. ‘... The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e13862	It is first weighed over points 2 and 3 and VII of III. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e13876	Points 1 and 4 to 6 of II, III, IV, V, VI, VIII, IX and X shall be counted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e16119	During the debate, Mr Christoffersen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to reintroduce the practice of presenting the social security schemes as its own case for the Storting, starting with the social security scheme for 2019.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to file as soon as possible a change in the regulatory principles for current pensions from wage developments less than 0,75 pst. to the actual average of wage and price developments.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e16159	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that the organisations involved in the social security scheme are given the right to negotiate.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e16185	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the possibilities for re-priorities within the framework of the right to talk in the social security scheme.’; The Greens have already given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left and Red have every subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e16211	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e16228	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Eirik Faret Sakariassen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red Proposal No. 3 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals on what can be done to limit the employer’s access to lockout when it is used to undermine strike rights.’ The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e16254	Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that employees in private health care have pay and working conditions at the same level as employees in public services.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Greens/Reds/Environmental Party support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e16271	Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, with the forced payroll background, to take the necessary steps to prevent the right to negotiate and strike from being undermined as a result of privatisation, and to report to the Stortinge on the results of this work.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e16317	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e16331	I could not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e16336	Then there are 97 representatives who have the right to be advised by the Committee and 1 representative who has the right to vote against. The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e16352	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-13.ana.ud350e16367	Preloaded report is not present. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
