ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e28	The representatives Else-May Botten and Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e50	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e59	My theme is ready in the north, at all. After having asked repeated questions to the Minister of Defence last Wednesday, it is unfortunately necessary to follow up this thread with the Prime Minister today. She can answer for the preparedness in the defense, and she's probably not in the mood to talk about the air ambulance crisis. My first question concerns Coast Guard access to helicopters. There is a need for all along our coast, from the border of Jakobselv to the whales and to the sea, but perhaps especially for the people of the north. Six of the defence's new NH90 helicopters were intended for the Coast Guard, but on 1 February the chief of defense recommended moving all the NH90 helicopters to the Naval Defence frigates in Bergen. So it leaves a Coast Guard without helicopters. The defence ministers couldn't say what the government thought about it. We know what that helicopter capacity means in the north – people who were lost outside Troms in February were saved. The bad weather in the Passover showed the significance of a rescue service in the air. So this is a problematic topic. In the revised budget, the government has proposed to cut the number of army helicopters in Troms from nine to three. The government prints out correctly that with this measure they will remove today's police transport readiness. It also means something. The army notices that per today, with such a solution, there would be only one helicopter left for them, because two of the three now fly an air ambulance, because the air ambulance is in crisis. Last Wednesday, the Minister of Defense could not give a clear answer on the Coast Guard helicopters. He stood firm by moving the Bell-helicopters southward. Last Monday we were informed that new rescue helicopters to replace Sea King are severely delayed and will not be put into service until 2021. My first question is about the Coast Guard helicopters. Four months after the Chief of Defense's professional recommendation to deprive the Coast Guard of their helicopters – can the Prime Minister here and now clarify whether and if so, when the Coast Guard gets its own helicopters?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e74	Let me start by saying that I fully agree that it is extremely important that we have good preparedness throughout the country. One of the things that the government therefore provided early was to reduce the time for helicopter preparedness, so that we had faster preparedness in case something was going to happen in Norway. What happens now is that we get several different categories of helicopters entering Norway. We're getting several helicopters for the Coast Guards, we're getting new helicopters connected to the entire rescue service, and we've got new police helicopters. It also means that there are many plans under change and conversion. It is not the case that the government has completed its work related to the Chief of Defense's recommendations on the NH90 and their location. It is possible that four months is long after the representative Støre's assessment, but the Ministry of Defence is now going through this thoroughly to ensure that we have good defence capabilities. We're also going to have to bring with us the answers to these questions. But no change in this will happen until we are actually done with the decisions, so preparedness will be good in Norway. Nor is it the case, as it was implicitly said in this question, that in a given situation, as today, only one helicopter will be available in North Norway. What's also very clear about what's in the revised national budget is that in certain situations, helicopters will be moved up when you have special situations, like now, to remedy. What happens now is you move 15 helicopters down to Back so that the special forces can train, practice and be prepared to do it. This does not mean that this will not be flexible if there are special situations – such as now, when we have two helicopters to provide better preparedness for sick people in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e83	Personally, four months doesn't mean much to me, because I live in the middle of a city that has an ambulance service that works, and a rescue service that works. But four months of uncertainty for people in the north actually means something when you're unclear whether the Coast Guard is going to have helicopters along our coast. No change in readiness until we have finished the decision, says the Prime Minister. No, I guess it says itself. My question is, what is she thinking about this? Can she guarantee, and possibly when – four months may be short – can she give answers as to whether the Coast Guard gets helicopters? This has been a topic for many years. The Minister of Defence says they are considering the matter, but it must be possible to get an indication. Is that another four months? Is it another year – or how is it? Otherwise, rescue helicopters to replace the Sea King helicopters are delayed. The police are told that the emergency aid they receive from the Bell Helicopters will lapse. With the Prime Minister's solution, there will be only three Bell helicopters left in the north every day. Two of them will currently operate air transport. At least security isn't that. When do the coastguard helicopters arrive?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e92	No one in the north has got a worse response on the basis of a discussion on how to dispose of the NH90 in the future. When the representative Gahr Støre gives the impression that in the north you should have been scared in the last four months, while he's not afraid here, yes, it's playing on feelings, which there's no basis for doing. Helicopters are in the north, they're on standby, and they're in better readiness now than they were before this government joined. It's important to underline. Then we'll talk about future solutions. I agree that it is important that the Coast Guard needs helicopters and capacity. I agree that we need to make better use of our resources, but we need to have time to make these assessments in the future. I think that on such major issues as preparedness, and on such major issues as how our defence ability will be good in the future, one should not be playing on feelings in a difficult situation. The helicopters we have, the Bell helicopters, are in the north, they're here for standby, and there's been no increased fear of it in the last few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e99	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e104	This isn't about playing on fear at all. The unrest that people in the north now feel, with an air ambulance that they have to follow from day to day – as they follow the weather forecast – is created by the government's clumsy handling of the air ambulance case. It is the Prime Minister who creates this fear situation. In the election campaign, she was concerned that the Army did not need its own helicopters in North Norway. She wanted to move all the Bell helicopters to the south. We and the majority in this room disagreed, but the Prime Minister said that she would move the helicopters south only when ‘alternative helicopter capacity is in place in the north’. The alternative capacity was to be the Coast Guard helicopters and the new rescue helicopters. Now the head of defense has recommended moving all the coastguard helicopters south to Bergen – where they need them to the frigates, he says. On Monday the news came that the new rescue helicopters are being released. Can the Prime Minister now clarify his ‘alternative helicopter capacity’ model for the Army in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e111	We're going to make sure that helicopter preparedness in the north is good. We have not completed the assessment of what the head of defence has done on priorities. Therefore, we cannot conclude in all parts. One of the things that happens is that the money that we have spent in this government period for better preparedness – unlike previous governments, which had a lower helicopter preparedness – is now being transferred to the Ministry of Justice and Defence, so that the money spent on this could also be used for other solutions. But we're going to have an overall perspective on it, so we also have a good civil protection. That's what I'm concerned about. That's also why we didn't follow the defense commander's recommendations – moving all the helicopters down to Rygge quickly – when we made the long-term plan, but said we should wait until we had another, alternative capacity, to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e118	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e123	Moving this from one department to another – this is out of the question. The question is, what is the alternate helicopter capacity for the army? Can the Prime Minister say anything more about it? She's going to move all the Bell helicopters south when she has an alternative lifting capacity for our army. What does she think about as that alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e129	I think I have to clear up a little bit of Jonas Gahr Støre's arguments now. He started talking about the NH90, so he was inside the air ambulances, and now he's back on the lifting capacity of the Army. The reason for the government not wanting to move the Bell helicopters as quickly down to Back as the defense chief wanted was not the lifting capacity of the Army – that's quite right, because they were little used for it in the Defense earlier – it was actually to provide the police with the preparedness and rapid evacuation. That's what we're going to do in North Norway, because you're going to have that kind of solution. That means that when more money is released from today's solution, we have to set up other solutions. So we haven't concluded the NH90 questions. But mixing this with today's crisis in the air ambulance, I think I'm using a good political trick, which I don't think should be done in such an important case: play on feelings about decisions that are not made. The helicopters are in the north, they're going to be in the north, and we're going to get ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e136	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e141	This is a nice transition to the air ambulance, which is also ready in the air. The crisis in the air ambulance underlines the importance of long-term planning, as for the Defence. What we are experiencing today is an alert crisis, after the HF has failed to listen to the clear advice that when they launch a tender, they must be sure that the key resource, namely competent people, is present. Following that advice, the Ministry of Health followed up with a letter to the HF Air ambulance Service, stressing the importance of this key resource — competent and experienced staff. They failed to follow that advice. The rest is history, although that story is very real to people. My question is, who is responsible? The Health Minister said in this Chamber that the overall responsibility lies with the Air ambulance Service HF. But isn't there a responsibility over it, namely with the Health Minister himself – he who in 2013 said that demonstration trains in Health Norway should go to him, that he was responsible? Does the Minister for Health not have the overall responsibility for the situation that has now arisen in the north of the air ambulance?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e148	The Minister of Health has the overall responsibility to ensure that we have a good health care system in Norway, and that we find good solutions to crises and situations that arise. We have some difficult situations related to the air ambulance and the transition between two tenders. This is a service which has been open to tender for all years. It is a sector that has experienced quite significant changes, including: in pay and working conditions. In all other parts of the transport sector, there have been wage cuts and changes in a previously rather large high wage range. So there's a more difficult situation. The responsibility of the Minister of Health is to ensure that we are able to be well prepared. That's why we've also made sure to get ready from the Defense to have helicopters present to help with the flight. We also plan for any given situation, whether this should not find its solution. Now I am pleased that the new supplier and the pilots are still sitting around the table trying to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e159	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e164	In order to use the Prime Minister's own words – I have to say I think it is a little special that the Prime Minister here in this staging room accuses Støre of playing on emotions, when she herself in the election campaign accused Støre of bluffing. Sturgeon's bluff will be revealed, she said. Those are pretty strong words, there's a lot of emotion. The issue is that helicopters in the north are linked – in the case of the Coast Guard, in the case of the rescue helicopters, and in the case of the Army helicopters. If we hadn't been so busy keeping the Army helicopters in the north, everyone would have moved south in the difficult situation we're now up in. We don't get a response when the Coast Guard gets helicopters. The four-month investigation has serious consequences. One in four pilots has already finished. My question is: does the Prime Minister regret that she went so high on the field during the election campaign and accused others of bluff, when she is now unable to answer clearly what kind of helicopters we need?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e173	The discussion in the election campaign was about whether there should be full coverage on Back, and about the move to Back of the same helicopters – as the Workers' Party took the opportunity to say when they were in Eastfold, while in North Norway they said that we should have full coverage and continue to maintain preparedness with Bell helicopters in the north. So it was double communication – it was said that the same planes were going to be two different locations, at the same time. If we're going to be fully prepared for terrorism, and if we're going to make sure that we use the special forces for those pointed areas, it's been a clear and clear assessment that we need to move more Bell helicopters to get a bigger deal. The answer from Jonas Gahr Støre at my post in that discussion at the time was that there were three helicopters left – which was really supposed to be phased out. It's just the three helicopters that are now standing in the north. It's a smaller capacity, but the Workers' Party now complains, is the same thing that Jonas Gahr Støre pointed to in the election campaign as one of the answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e180	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e185	All those who belong to the Prime Minister today are told that she can't do anything for what's going to be the helicopter's standby in the north. There is no doubt that the Army and Norway's ability to defend and stand by is weakened by the government's proposal to move almost all helicopters north to south. This has also been fixed several times by the commander. during its thorough presentation to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence two weeks ago in inner Troms. Yesterday it was found in several media that the head of defense had punished the commander of the distribution he held for the committee. The chief of defense was not present himself, so there must be others who have come up with the idea that he would punish the commander. The former Secretary of Defense insisted immediately after she had joined, that now a few real openness about the defence. She also said, ‘Openness means in particular to contribute to a correct picture of reality.’ We have seen clear examples of the opposite, at the latest yesterday in the News of the Day. Can the Prime Minister confirm that it was the Ministry of Defence who instructed the head of defence to punish the commander of his contribution to giving an honest and correct picture of the situation in the Army to the Foreign and Defence Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e196	I don't think we're going to use Storting's pulpit to talk about rumors that are in the paper without sources or anything else related to questions in the defense. This is not the way to operate neither personnel policy nor management. What's important to me is to say that yes, that's freedom of speech. And if there's a place where I feel that there's a lot of freedom of speech, it's in the defense -- when it comes to making alternative views for people employed in the defense, starting from where they stand in the defense, what they see as the need. What is the main challenge for us politicians is that we need to get a complete recommendation at the end, where we weigh the different parts of different sectors up against each other. So the head of defense and his staff, and the commander of the army, are part of the team that has provided the defense of professional military advice, which was the basis of the long-term plan, with the changes that the government has made. And then we've been open that we made other assessments related to it. I am among those politicians who don't think we, as politicians, should think that we are better at military solutions than the military itself is. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e207	The President must remember that speaking time must be respected. Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e215	The Christian People's Party was not part of the unity around the long-term plan because we thought that both the army and the Homeland should be given a higher priority in order to ensure a balanced defence. But when the county was treated, we agreed on a consensus within the framework that the majority had then laid. As part of that work, the majority of the government asked for a split helicopter solution between Bardufoss and Rygge. The answer we received in the revision was discouraging. We know that helicopter is an indispensable resource for a modern army, not least when we know topography in Northern Norway. The government has presented a solution that hardly anyone in the army of my lucky goal. My question is: does the Prime Minister mean that we can have a modern army without dedicated helicopter support? And if not, is it the government's will to sit down to find a credible helicopter solution? [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e222	The President must remember that speaking time must be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e227	When the government presented the long-term plan for the defense, it is quite right that we had not deposited dedicated support for the Army in the north with helicopters. What we had done was to say that we should maintain the capacity until we had received other new capacities – such as, among other things. The NH90, which can contribute to some operations — but mainly for the protection of civil society in the north, for example. police relocation capacity, which is one of the important changes. We've listened to Stortinget. The size has prioritised lifting capacity for the Army, and therefore we maintain three Bell helicopters for evacuation options for the Army in the north, for the movement of wounded or other things that happen, while at the same time taking care of what we are concerned about that there was agreement to do: make sure that also the special forces, our foremost grip in really serious anti-terrorist situations, should have good enough helicopter support. So we're still moving 15 helicopters to Rygge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e232	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e237	This government says it attaches great importance to preparedness, but it is clear that with what has happened this spring, it must be allowed to ask questions when preparing for who and also where in the country. It has developed a situation within the air ambulance in North Norway where one really cannot guarantee the preparedness for life and health in months ahead of us. That situation has arisen as a result of a shattered tendering process. The Air ambulance service and the health business in North Norway clearly assessed a new air ambulance offer as a golden opportunity for so-called innovation, i.e. to reduce the wage and pension costs of employees. Through that choice, they also made patients in North Norway hostages in a fight to bring down their own expenses. That's an unacceptable way of going forward. Even now, the air ambulance has to get helicopter assistance from the Defense. Then it's a crisis. It happens in peacetime, in quiet spring and summer weather. So we're in the middle of a situation that needs to be solved quickly. The acute medical safety of patients cannot wait, and if this continues beyond the harvest, the entire air ambulance service may indeed collapse. I must say that when I hear the Prime Minister in his reply to the representative Gahr Støre almost suggest that as we raise these serious issues, I have to ask the Prime Minister: how serious does the Prime Minister really think this situation is? And can the Prime Minister, when none of the health business leaders will guarantee that they can resolve the situation, guarantee that this serious emergency situation will be resolved?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e248	First I want to clear up the claim of Marit Arnstad about what I answered Jonas Gahr Støre. It was a hypothetical question, or a forward-looking question, of what solution we have on the NH90, which should have contributed to uncertainties and difficulties in the last four months. In my view, this is not a real argument or a real situation. I have a great deal of understanding that the situation in the air ambulance, on the other hand, is creating anxiety, and there have been some challenging days in between here. Now it seems that readiness is good. As of May 7, there has been a contingency plan that has helped to improve services. It has been ensured that these two defense helicopters are also available to help, and yesterday nine out of nine aircraft were able to fly. The situation seems to be considerably better. In retrospect, you can probably see if there are parts of this tendering process that should have been different, among other things. the previous tender should have made clearer and clearer requirements on how the supplier who received the tender in the next round would be able to deal with a situation where they lost the tender the next time. This is a service which has been open to tender for all years since it was set up in 1988. Once this situation has arisen, I believe that both the health company and the Ministry of Health have worked hard and provided good solutions for alternatives that have helped us now to see that both by hiring in aircraft and having helicopter capacity from the Defense have a better preparedness at the moment. Then you're prepared to plan for what are the difficult situations if you don't find a solution between the new supplier company and the pilots, but we get to hope that you actually find such a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e259	I record that the Prime Minister believes that the problem is serious, but that she hopes it will go wrong by the parties talking together. And she points out that it's okay today because the defense provides assistance. But we cannot, of course, base critical health care in North Norway on the need for the defence to provide sustained assistance. In fact, it has to be possible for it to stand on its own feet. Then we're in a problem situation that's quite difficult, because there's no one in the system who really takes maritime criticism for the process that's been. In fact, the health business's tops think that one could do the exact same thing over again, so it seems that the situation is a kind of calculated risk, and that once again gives us the obvious problem in today's Hospital-Norway, namely disclaimer. So my question to the Prime Minister is, who does the Prime Minister think is responsible? Is it the Prime Minister maritime, is it the Minister of Health, is it the health company, is it the Air ambulance service, or is it the pilots – who is responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e268	The Health Minister gave a broad account of this matter to the Stortinget. That statement is now under consideration in a Grand Committee, which will come up with proposals and also evaluate them. You have gone through all the sides of this matter. The responsibility for providing good health services rests, of course, on the government, and it rests on healthcare companies, which have a delivery responsibility for this. We are in a situation of termination in a company that has an agreement to provide a service, and we make plans and preparedness when the company is unable to deliver the services they are paid to deliver. So plans have been made to find other, short-term solutions. It is not a satisfactory situation today, nor is it supposed to be a permanent situation, as it sounds like the representative implicitly says that we are planning for it. We plan that this should be a good offer, a better offer than it has been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e275	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e280	I am pleased that the Prime Minister confirms that she thinks it is a serious situation, and that the government is responsible, but it does not appear today that the government has any immediate measures or answers to the challenges facing it. Then I am to some extent back to my first question, whether the Prime Minister can guarantee that the government will contribute to a quick solution to the question. Strictly speaking, one can today say that Air Transport AS is in default of the tender they are making, and one could also say that Babcock, who is to take over the tender next year, may have submitted a tender under no circumstances. They have achieved good skills because they assumed that today's skills should be transferred to the new company. So there are possibilities, great opportunities, and those possibilities the government has to use, because if the government doesn't use those possibilities, it can't be interpreted in any other way than that it accepts this shaky tender process. The question is: is the government willing to enter and contribute to a change, possibly a cancellation, of the tender?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e287	Cancelling a tender submitted by a supplier who will not take over until July of next year will, as the Minister for Health has also stated in Stortinget, mean a significant liability. There is no default from a new supplier related to a contract that is thus entered into from next year. It's a contract that we still think it's going to be delivered well. Babcock is also working to ensure that they may be able to contribute earlier if necessary, if the situation in air transport continues as it is today. Now the pilots are sitting and negotiating the situation. They negotiate pay and working conditions. It is a challenge that this is a sector where, among other things: collective agreements have been concluded between the parties which preclude the inclusion of seniority from an old company into a new company. It also makes part of what's in the common tariff area not valid here, as it would in some other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e295	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e300	I have to say that the last answer concerns me a little, because here the Prime Minister is standing again and almost reducing something that has now become a critical situation for the health care in North Norway, for the issues of the recruitment and conditions of the pilots. Yes, it is clear that when a person is not even willing to consider entering a business transfer into a tender, such a situation may arise. But what is the government's problem here – and here it's not useful to blame the pilots or the negotiating parties – is that this puts life and preparedness in North Norway at risk, and if it continues for a long time, there could be a collapse in the air ambulance service. It's a big responsibility for the government. My question is, what will the government do? Can it guarantee that something will be done with it? And what responsibility does the government take for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e307	The government has taken responsibility for it. We got a plan from May 7. We've got the readiness that's there. The defense stands with helicopters. We're dealing with the current situation. This is a difficult situation, and we hope to find a long-term solution quickly. But on the way there, we provide better preparedness by using other tools, such as we have done in the last few days, and as you can see, we also have given better capacity, which is present. The tender that has been made also provides better capacity than what we have had so far. So when it comes to it, we're better prepared to send sick people with air transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e312	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e317	The supply process in the air ambulance service is nothing less than a major scandal. Inhabitant director, missing risk analysis, leakage of competitively sensitive information and offerer with fewer aircraft, fewer pilots and poorer preparedness water. There is a lack of requirements for the transfer of business, where a quite consciously old one has the most important, simply added to the experienced. But the worst thing is that one has managing directors in healthcare companies who show no regrets, no self-criticism. They said in their hearing that they could not have done anything else. They say they hope, believe, and expect that the preparedness will be secure in the future. I hear the Prime Minister state that it is the government that is responsible. My question is: can the Prime Minister guarantee preparedness when health business directors can't? And how will the Prime Minister solve this situation in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e324	I refer you to my previous answers. So since we asked for a plan from health companies on 7 May, we have got a plan that ensures extra capacity, among other things. from the Defence. We see that the situation has been more normalized in terms of flight capacity, and we are working to have contingency plans – given that there is no agreement, and that there are more people who are resigning to the harvest. Can we guarantee any readiness? No, but we're well prepared. There's been situations where we couldn't fly north at all. Under the ash cloud were large parts of this service down. At that time, there were compensatory measures — other measures that had to be taken. We're always going to work to ensure that we have the best possible preparedness, so that sick people get the treatment they're going to have – both in hospitals and in the transport that makes them get to the best available health professionals in each region quickly. So there are plans that are up and going – it works. Then we have to move on and follow the situation closely. We'll take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e331	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e336	I didn't ask if the Prime Minister wants to work for the standby, I suppose. I asked if the Prime Minister will guarantee preparedness, and it can, as the Health Executives, not the Prime Minister either. I thought that was quite serious because we have an emergency situation in the air ambulance service that is quite serious. Experience is required to fly air ambulances on the short-haul network. The most important way to secure this competence is to require a transfer of assets. When we read what has come up in connection with the cases we have for treatment, it turns out that health care professionals are deliberately obnoxious about this. They have to compete on the pay and working conditions of the workers because they have to save money. My question to the Prime Minister is whether she does not see that a business transfer needs to be secured. Or do health professionals support their conscious choice of offering experience skills?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e345	I am concerned that all the money we spend in the health sector is spent as much as possible: the best possible preparedness, the best possible health care, as much as possible for their challenges. This means that health businesses should also, of course, consider whether they are cost-effective at all levels of services. However, it should not be compromised on quality requirements. The quality requirements are at the bottom, so they are fulfilled in this tender – the quality of the service to be provided. They are not the ones who have received the new tender, which is now the challenge. It is those who have the current tender that are no longer able to deliver what they are obliged to do. In some of the discussion here it sounds as if it is the new company that defaults or fails to deliver. They have not started delivering, it is the old company that is now unable to deliver. We then put in place measures to ensure that preparedness is good. And it's not wrong to have a motive to spend as much of the taxpayers' money as possible on health care for sick people, on treating people who need help – getting the most out of this money to provide help in the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e352	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e357	Now there is a call for tenders both in the air ambulance and in the railway, and that's how it works when you have too blind faith in the market. What we have heard now in this questioning process is that the Prime Minister repeats and repeats the short-term measures that make the situation a little bit better right now. What the Prime Minister is completely unable to say about is what will provide security for people in the north in the long term, and the concern now is not least what is going to happen in the autumn. The Prime Minister is concerned about everything we cannot do – why it is not possible to cancel the contract and why it is not possible to require a transfer of business. But we have to put people in front of markets, and then the most important thing is not to consider tendering rules, but to consider people in the north. The Prime Minister said instead that she was prepared to do something if the short-term measures did not work, but the big question remains: prepared for what?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e367	Firstly, there is no chaos in the railway sector; it is a political strike. It is a political strike; it is not chaos. It's a competitive outsourcing that has given better services and better offers in the past, and we think that's good, because we're concerned that people get the best offer for the money we actually spend in the public sector. But in the short term, we have solved the situation that arose acutely. We know that there are vulnerabilities if we do not find good solutions between the parties that are now negotiating the new contract, but we know that we have a contract from next year, which we are absolutely sure Babcock can deliver, and that there is no reason for us to ask questions about whether they are able to deliver. So it's one year ahead. If it turns out that this is accelerating, we are now working on the plans that are needed. That's a difficult situation. There's no question about this, but it's like we've taken seriously the challenges that are here. For this reason, we have been in close dialogue after the situation arose, precisely in order to have other preparedness measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e376	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e381	It's unsustainable that we've been in a situation where we have a failing air ambulance service with the possibility of danger to life and health. Especially is it dramatic in areas where the option is hour by hour in a car. It is the government's responsibility, alone, to ensure a good air ambulance service in our country. When the majority in this Chamber delegate this responsibility to the undertakings which in tenders show that they are willing to take risks, they are willing to refrain from carrying out risk and vulnerability analyses for an area as vulnerable as the air ambulance service is when a person becomes seriously ill, is my question to the Prime Minister: Does the Prime Minister feel that the government has good political control and control of hospitals and the air ambulance service through the delegated corporate model that is now proving to be ineffective?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e388	We have a situation that I have said has been serious, and where some days have been unsustainable in terms of preparedness. This means, of course, that health businesses also need to look at how we can prevent such situations from occurring in the future. Some of them are those who are suppliers who also need to ensure that they have the ability to deliver here, even if they lose, given the long distance between a tender and the transition to a new tender. That ability has obviously not been present here. Of course, it should be much clearer, both in the invitation to tender and in the system. These include: on such things as how long you have the notice period, how to secure those who work there, how to solve such challenges. So I don't think we're going to underestimate that something else is going on. There has been a significant change for a group that has been a very high-wage group in Norway, pilots, and there has been a lot of pressure in that market. That means there are completely different wages and other benefits now than it was before. It also makes this even more difficult, as the situation is. But we need to have the learning process, and we need to ensure good preparedness all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e393	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e398	The Prime Minister has previously assured Stortinget that the Norwegian authorities would have good control over whom Norwegian soldiers would train in their missions in Syria, Jordan and Iraq in connection with the so-called Operation Inherent Resolution in the Middle East. Yesterday I received a response from the Minister of Defence to a written question. On government issues, information on human rights violations has been committed by Norwegian interest-rate Syrian forces during and/or after the period of Norwegian military training, the Minister of Defence describes what he himself calls a serious episode involving one of the Norwegian interest groups. The Minister of Defence writes in his reply, and I quote: ‘Norwegian forces had clear instructions that possible violations of human rights and international law of war should be followed and that such matters should be reported in the chain of command of the OIR and through the Defence of the Ministry of Defence. [[...]] Norwegian forces discovered one serious episode among the local forces during the period they were operational.» When something like that can happen – a serious incident, as the government describes it as itself – does the Prime Minister think that Norwegian authorities have had good enough control over who has received Norwegian military training?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e408	In this case, all guidelines have been followed. Norwegian soldiers stopped working immediately. It was handled, it was reported. All guidelines were followed. You can never guarantee that this will not happen, but you can ensure that there is a follow-up and a clear solution to the matter when it happens, and that it is reported in the line, so that you are alert and aware of what is going on. But no matter where you're in war or anywhere else, it's hard to be 100 pst. Sure. War is bad, war is hard. These are soldiers – not Norwegian soldiers, but those you trained – who are being trained to go into very difficult operations. Our job and our contribution are often to contribute to the fact that the conflict code and other lessons are being learned, followed up, and that we handle episodes when that happens, and in this case it has happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e417	I do not doubt that the matter has been properly handled by the Norwegian side, but my question was about who it is that we are actually cooperating with in these Middle East wars. For the reason that several parties on the Storting were opposed to participating in this training assignment, the fear was that it would not be possible to exercise sufficient control, perhaps even that Norway itself was not sufficiently involved in the American-led selection process to know that this was the strengths we could stand in to cooperate with. And when the government itself describes this as a serious incident, it is, I believe, natural to ask the Prime Minister to answer exactly that: Does the Prime Minister think that Norway has had – and has, because the operation continues – good enough control over who it is we are actually cooperating with?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e422	Just this operation is not continuing. That mandate, and everything, has changed, in the form that we no longer do that kind of training, but we are doing training in Iraq – just to underline it. This is one of the things that we have concluded because we believe that the situation has changed significantly in relation to this. So it's that none of us have given the impression that in such situations we're always going to meet and train people who have the same human vision, the same international view of justice, the same obligations; that's part of what we have to learn away as part of the entire training we have when we're out. But it could happen episodes. This episode has been handled correctly. This was stopped. This was handled and reported on, and it was clear that Norwegian soldiers could not continue training without the situation we experienced then being resolved. And it was solved. We're in a situation to strike back a terrorist organization like ISIL. Then you must not at least ally with those who have roots in these areas. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e433	It opens for follow-up questions – first Audun Lighthouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e438	On 2 May, the Minister of Defence made a statement in the Stortinget on just this: the Norwegian effort in the fight against ISIL and not least the training mission. All that was positive by the government with this mission was included in the open presentation. This serious incident, which could be negative for the government in this case, was not included, and so it was only after questions were asked about it. Does the Prime Minister agree that the information on this serious incident should have been included in the statement on 2 May?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e444	If we had an episode where there was a violation of the guidelines we have for how our soldiers handle things, it would be natural to say it to the Storting in such an explanation. It is not in this case. Our soldiers have dealt with this in the correct way, in line with the guidelines and the resolution available, and it was handled. Then it is not necessarily natural that this should be reported to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e449	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e454	I think that's a very special statement. I think everyone understands that this information is important for Storting's ability to hold an informed debate on this. But let me go on, because the Class Fight wrote on 20 April, after an interview with what was supposed to be a local commander in Syria, that Norwegian interest-rate forces should have participated in fighting actions against others other than ISIL, which in that case would be a clear breach of the guidelines the Prime Minister and the government have previously presented to the Stortinget. Can the Prime Minister now confirm or deny that Norwegian interest rates in the period of Norwegian training have participated in acts of war against others other than ISIL?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e463	I responded to some of the statements made in the previous Question Time, and one thing is clear and clear: that Norwegian soldiers have a mandate not to participate in acts of war. They have to monitor, they have to follow, and then they have the right to self-protection. The right to self-protection will, in any case, also apply to attacks other than those which you really aim to train to fight. So to the extent that you are protected or attacked by others, you have the right to self-protection in such situations anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e468	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e473	That's not what I asked, but who the Norwegian interest-rate forces have fought against. And then I can refresh the Prime Minister's memory, because it's true that she's been talking about this before in a Question Time, it was April 18. Then she said, and I quote: ‘The information generated today is what these forces have done after Norway has completed its mission and has no longer participated in training in this, because we have returned IS territorially [[...]] But then there was a new look in the class struggle two days later, where the claim is that Norwegian interest-rate Syrian forces have fought against other than ISIL during the period of training. So then the question is whether what the Prime Minister said in Stortinget on 18 April was right, and what was in the class struggle on 20 April was wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e483	This is at a level of detail that I believe is in line with what is the basis for oral Question Time, there is no need for a Prime Minister to be able to answer, simply because it is here and now. In the previous question hour, I replied to a media essay that was related to it, and the action that it was about was after, and if the questioner wants a detailed answer to this, we need to have the opportunity to go through it. I remind you that the basis for oral question time, in the instructions underlying it, is that there should be general questions. If you go down in detail, a government council or a prime minister is always in danger of saying things that are wrong, and can't be put into the same responsibility afterwards. So I think this has to be given follow-up responses to it in line with what is the basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e492	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e497	On Sunday, VG had a front page that made a strong impression. It was a shocking but important front that showed the true face of the war in Yemen. We saw the acutely undernourished and unmanufactured Aisha. She is one of 400,000 children in the same situation. Every 10 minutes, a child dies in Yemen. 80 pst. are entirely dependent on humanitarian aid to survive. The UN has called the world's worst humanitarian crisis. There is also a forgotten crisis in many ways. That's why there's far too little power to mobilize help from the outside world in the situation we're seeing now. At the beginning of 2018, the UN estimated that they needed 3 billion. dollars to increase food aid to the country. One has unfortunately not even managed to collect half that far. The government has introduced some increase in Yemen’s humanitarian aid into the revised budget – that’s good, but unfortunately that’s not enough. The Christian People's Party of Norway can and should provide more to save lives in this unimaginable crisis. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is the government willing to see if it is possible to increase humanitarian aid to Yemen, both given the serious situation we see, and given it the under-cover in relation to the need that has been identified, where the UN has asked for 3 billion. dollar, but has only got in less than half of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e508	I fully agree that the situation in Yemen is terrible. It's a situation where people experience a lack of access to completely basic things. It is also a major challenge to get help into the areas that are most affected and under most protection. Therefore, there is a question of having enough help and a question of having access and access. That is why it is important both to get corridors to get humanitarian aid into areas and to get more money. As Mr Hareide said, the government has contributed more to the revised national budget. The challenge in the world today is that there is too little follow-up to humanitarian aid in general. Of course, the government is open to give more money to Yemen as the situation evolves, but above all, it is important that we ensure that even more of the great donors are mobilised to contribute and do something, and that the pressure is put on both Saudi Arabia and Iran to ensure that we get fewer acts of war, more humanitarian aid and find a political solution in Yemen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e515	I thank you for the good answer. I agree that it is important that we contribute even more, but also that we put a greater pressure on not least those who can actually contribute to a change. But in this very conflict, humanitarian aid is very important. It has been demonstrated that all sides of this conflict have committed serious violations of international law. It has been attacking hospitals, preventing humanitarian aid and killing civilians. All the warring parties are guilty of gross crimes against children in this conflict. War actions are possible, among other things. because country sells military material to the warring parties. Norway is making money on the sale of military equipment to the warring parties. The Christian People's Party requires a halt to all exports of defence and multi-purpose goods to countries in the Saudi leadership coalition. My question is, is the government willing to stop the export of defence equipment to those who are fighting in Yemen?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e527	These issues are dealt with in Stortinget every year. In this regard, we have explained quite thoroughly what kind of material it is about. It's e.g. not open to the sale of weapons and ammunition to Saudi Arabia, one of the countries contributing to that war. It is open for the sale of other material, so-called B-material. In a period under the red-green government, it was open for the sale of A-materials to several of the countries, but we're worried about it, and we're careful not to sell what is directly warring weapons. There's some other material, support material, that's there. From 19 December 2017, we suspended valid export licences for A-materials to the United Arab Emirates. New export licences for A-materials to the United Arab Emirates will also not be granted by the Norwegian Government in this situation. The threshold for refusing export licences for B-materials and multi-use goods for military use to countries participating in military operations in Yemen has already been lowered. So we've made changes related to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e534	It opens for follow-up questions – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e539	I thank you again for your answer. I want to show that Germany has now chosen to stop its arms exports to countries that are warring in Yemen, and this is in many ways about what kind of country Norway wants to be, what values we stand for, and what signal Norway is going to send. I think there's been a change, but we still contribute arms to the warring parties. I mean that we both end up on the wrong side of history and do not contribute to what we can do in this situation. I also think that most people have problems understanding why Norwegian people don't well stop this arms trade. I ask again: will the government see if it is possible to put the foot down and prevent the use of Norwegian war equipment in this conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e546	I want to problematize the word ‘weapon’, because that’s not what Norway has sold to, for example. Saudi Arabia. We don't have the export license for weapons and ammunition. It is multi-purpose material, which is support material that can be used for both civil and defence purposes, which has also been sold. And so we've lowered the threshold to refuse export licences to all of these countries. We're doing that by evaluating this, so that we can make sure we don't export for use in Yemen. But it is important to stress that there are a large number of deliveries that are in the export licensing system because they can be used in connection with military use, but are initially not weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e551	Let's move on to the next main question. The representatives Per Espen Stoknes and Björn Moxnes, who were the next on the list, are not present in the room, so we go on to the representative Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e558	For the Workers' Party, a well-organised working life and a society of small social and economic differences are of great importance. We believe that this is absolutely essential for our trust in each other and in the authorities and the very foundations of the Norwegian model. This foundation is challenged, the differences are increasing between those who have much and those who have little, and the government does not intend to stop this. Now some $10 million will be saved, Norwegian workers' security will be sacrificed for the benefit of the large capital requirements. The government shows its true face as the shipowners and the uncritical and warmest defenders of big capital because ordinary people have less value in the assessment basis when the government has assessed the claim of Color Line on the occasion of putting 700 Norwegian seafarers on land. It is worth noting that there is nothing in the legislation that suggests that stopping at 700 is where one ends. On the contrary, the change in rules does not restrict the shipping company. 700 Norwegian seafarers parked on land can only be a start on what we will see in the future. What is really provocative is when the Minister of Industry emphasizes how generous the support system for seafarers is, with a total of two billion. kr. But he fails to mention how shy the big community actually is towards the shipowners and shipping companies through highly favourable tax and support schemes that far exceed the aid scheme for seafarers. It'll be pretty bad to hear the Minister of Industry argue strongly to squander some of those who work on board, out of an arrangement, to save a few million dollars. How long will ordinary people stand up for shipowners with such an attitude? I believe the legitimacy of this can fall in connection with the seafarers. In the Question Time on 18 April, the Prime Minister said: ‘But this has not been about money. This has been a matter of employment in Norway.’ Therefore, my question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister now disagree with the Minister of Economic Affairs that it is important to have Norwegian seafarers put on land as a good balancing item on the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e572	It was a colorful picture of the government's intentions that was initially drawn on this issue. I thought we were past the point that we allowed other parties purposes after previous debates. This government has just been busy creating more jobs. The biggest challenge for inequality in our society is the inequality between those who are out of work and those who are in the world of work. That is why it is extremely important for this government to do something that you couldn't do the last time it was growing in the Norwegian economy, when the Workers' Party boasted of how many jobs they created, namely to ensure that more people who are outside the labour market get into the labour market. It's like a bracket of what was said in the introduction, which I think was a rough caricature of what the government thinks and stands for, a government that has done more for inclusion, more to bet on the poorest in Norway and more to ensure that our school system gets better and more accessible for children to come in and get along, and for creating better social mobility. With regard to the issue of the Color Line and the flight path scheme, this is part of the follow-up to a party-based sample, where we have implemented all the positive aspects of this. We've done all the pluses in this, like, among other things. So now we're going to spend 400 million. more on the scheme related to the employment of seafarers and contributes to subsidising their work in order to provide competitive conditions. In this context, there was a clear and clear discussion about moving the entire Color Lines activity out of Norway by, for example, placing itself. magazines in Denmark. At that time 2,300 jobs were at risk in Norway. We've seen other companies that have done this before, because they haven't felt that they've got good enough arrangements. We have therefore chosen to go further with the question of saving more jobs in Norway to ensure that we have this ferry business starting in Norway and headquartered in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e579	I am very surprised at the self-confidence of the Prime Minister in this matter. Numeric basis not updated. It is based on the 2014 Decision and where the assumptions have changed significantly in retrospect. What is really special is that the government is doing a tailor-made job for only one shipping company – just one shipping company – a tailor-made job without an up-to-date data and fact-finding basis. It is both special and strange that the change is implemented when we could read at Nok.no as late as last night that the Minister of Industry would no longer reject the fact that Color Line would no longer make money to move. At best, the government has argued against better knowledge. In the worst case, the government has undoubtedly caused considerable uncertainty in relation to the Storting's handling of this matter last Monday. Does the Prime Minister believe that it is now reassuring that the government takes a decision with such extensive consequences, without the figures being up-to-date and the consequences for the shipping company being better investigated?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e586	It's an inconsistency from the questioner when he says we can't start with one company, and then only argues with one company's own cost overview and other. Our starting point as government is not to take a snapshot of what the situation is. At the moment, we have a lower dollar rate than we had in 2014. We have improved many other economic conditions for business under this government. It makes operations in many areas better, but we have seen that what we did in the area of navigation – where we extended arrangements and made improvements for Norwegian seafarers in individual areas – is about securing more jobs in Norway. It is permissible to disagree completely with that assessment, but it is not an assessment that we are running the shipowners' run, or that we are going to – I'm sorry to say, President – that we don't care about the framework conditions that people have in Norway. On the contrary, we are concerned about it. We have therefore been concerned that it is good to ensure the stability of this company with good framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e591	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e596	I stress that the inconsistency in this matter comes not from the questioner, but from the government. When Stortingen dealt with this matter on Monday, it was very clear that the Minister of Economic Affairs had not updated the facts of the case. He lacked an up-to-date evidence base. He knew nothing about the viability of those who developed parts of the decision-making basis back in 2014. We wanted to know more about the framework conditions for international ferries with routes to ports outside the Nordic region that are registered in NOR. We wanted to know something about the government's assessment of the framework conditions between NOR, NIS, DIS and other international registers. Yeah, that's what I could do. But we did not get a response from the Minister of Industry in this matter that somehow made the decision base safe. Does the Prime Minister understand that the Minister for Economic Affairs appears to be significantly weakened and unless he can be confident that he cannot answer such relevant questions in a case that could end up losing more than 700 Norwegian seafarers the job and thus the safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e604	What we're doing with this is just securing the seafarers on these boats with the changes we've made in total, while those who have restaurant, shop, kitchen and hotel operations within it, probably won't continue to be Norwegian employees with the scheme that is. But in addition, we ensure that all the support functions linked to the country are operated by this company, and that has consequences. I understand that the Workers' Party is concerned that they should secure these jobs, but as a result, it may feel that all the jobs are missing. There is a risk for the Workers' Party itself to assess and take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e609	Then we allow, because time permits, that the representative of Aasland gets another follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e614	Thank you so much for that, President. I think it is important to clarify that we in the Workers' Party are occupied with a complete maritime cluster, including those working on board the ferries. That's also the majority in the Biggest. The majority in Stortinget last Monday was very concerned that the figures on which the government bases its decision are out-of-date and not up-to-date. That's why it was a very clear majority comment when we dealt with this matter, that one wanted the government to go through this base, evaluate the numerical basis, contact Color Line about the need, etc., and then present these results to the Storting. We repeatedly asked the Minister of Industry if he would assure us that we were presented to the Stortinget, before the government makes a decision that ends with a regulatory change that allows Color Line to flag from NOR to NIS. We didn't get an answer, even though that's the majority's clear assumption. I therefore ask the Prime Minister if she can now assure the Storting that the government will follow the clear premise of the bulk of the population that an overall review of the assumptions underlying the announced change to the voyage regulations for foreign ferries will be made, and will the result be presented to the Storing before any changes are implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e623	Our starting point is that, as a minority government, we will always follow up proposals adopted in the Storting, and come back with investigations and other things done. It is possible to make demands that go too far to go into a single matter and a single question related to what is an important principle, but let me underline one thing: what is important in the years to come is to make sure that we have a whole maritime cluster. This government has, among other things: Ensured this by using more innovation and innovation funds to develop more technologies, ensuring that we have good mechanisms. We believe that the changes we have made, both in the scheme for seafarers and in the compensation for their salaries, but also in the tax rules, are an important part of it. However, in the initial question from the representative, it was heard that the Workers' Party had now regretted that they were gradually turning around and agreed that we should secure the boat owners through a good tax code. I hope that was just a rhetorical attempt at a pearl and not a real point of view from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e628	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e633	For the Centre Party, it is essential that the labour walls of society, those who keep Norway running every day in practical work, are also involved in real wage developments. However, Norwegian wage and work conditions are under strong pressure downwards for these workers. For seafarers, this has been the situation for a long time. The Norwegian Community provides large economic benefits to the shipping companies in order to ensure Norwegian activity and employees. That's what the Center Party means. Norway without shipping is not Norway. The Central Party is working for a social contract between shipping companies, seafarers and the Norwegian community for the benefit of everyone. The net pay scheme is a necessary part of it. If the Government amends the Regulation for Foreign Vacations, Color Line may replace the net pay scheme for Norwegian seafarers with cheaper foreign seafarers on the two ferries between Oslo and Kiel. The Christian People’s Party Reiten said on 28 May that there is no point for the Christian People’s Party to ‘implement changes in the legislation to reduce government expenditure on the reimbursement scheme for seafarers’. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e640	First, I'd like to say that I'm glad that the Center Party is on the point of view they also had when I, together with Gudmund Restad, made the first tax agenda for the shipping companies, because they just had a thought that you had to have a complete system that makes you get the whole cluster present. It is clear that it was also important for us to have Norwegian jobs. The net pay scheme is an important part of it. That is why we have extended the net pay scheme to several groups. But that's sometimes a choice, where it can be a question, because if we say we're going to have exactly those rules in Norway, we think we're going to save some jobs, but the fact is that we lose a lot more, because then you move the business out of the country. That's why what's really the government's dimension is -- the question of the danger that Color Line, as other companies have done before, is moving from having the rest of their activity based in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e645	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e650	Yesterday I visited an acute medical clinic at the hospital in Tromsø. The message from there was clear: the crisis is not over, and it is a shame that life has not been lost. A few years ago, a volcanic eruption caused large parts of the population to become ashtrayed. Now the population is open to tender. Today's crisis is not due to volcanic eruptions or natural forces, it is due to political measures and decisions, a tendering policy that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health are responsible for. We're at risk of the service collapsing over the summer. Three years ago, the emergency committee proposed in a report received by the government that public service operations should be investigated. It's now opened to the right, and it's very good. But earlier today, Solberg has repeatedly said that the service has been on offer since 1988 and that it has worked fine. What she forgets to say is that it's been the same operator for 25 years. That's only now that we get the really big test on the tendering regime, and that test cancels the regime. What is happening is what the emergency committee warned against, namely that ‘operator switching at the time of the conclusion of new contracts breaks down a good interaction between the operator and healthcare provider over several years’. Yesterday, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party presented proposals on how the government should, in their view, resolve the crisis. I wonder whether the government – yes or no – is willing to enter into negotiations with Babcock, as these parties propose, or to apply for a new tendering procedure with business transfer requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e661	When the Minister of Health explained in Stortinget last week, he was quite clear on the question of a new tendering process. It will be a breach that will be expensive, and will mean that money that we were to use to treat patients for, then used to pay out a tender that you have not failed, because it actually happens from the next summer of. From this point of view, we do not think there is any basis for cancelling any tenders relating to Babcock. What the government is doing is now making sure to make clear demands on health businesses to deliver on short-term relief measures, which enable us to provide a service that is good and safe for people throughout the country, but which is particularly important in North Norway. The other thing is to work with all the plans for how to deal with a worsening situation, if it should occur. At the same time, there are now negotiations between the pilots and the acquiring company, so we'll see what solutions come out of it. I understand that there is now an offer for all the pilots to hire, and then there will be negotiations related to this issue. Then I hope we can find a solution to the long-term problem. But we're working on every plan to make sure that things get worse in the short term, before the new tender comes into force. The main challenge is that the operator who has offered today is not now able to provide the service that they are required to provide. When it comes to questions about investigating it, the Right has said in Stortinget that we are open to it. I can't comment on an attitude that's not issued by the committee, but I understand that there might be some leads from someone in the Storting related to it. Of course, we'll follow that up as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e672	It was a clear response that the government parties will not give the majority to the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party's proposals, if I understand Erna Solberg correctly. She may be able to correct that in her answer. It is strange that Erna Solberg believes that the company Babcock will take over in a good way on 1 July next year, because the company is not an established and approved Norwegian airline. They do not yet have people, hangars, airplanes, Norwegian experience, approved pilots or established cooperation relations with the health care system. How does Erna Solberg think that Babcock, who by today's date has been ribbed for credibility and both popular, professional and political support, can be believed to be on track, as they themselves say, when they completely lack organisation, competence and structures only one year before being fully operational with responsibility for the entire Norwegian ambulance flight operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e682	I understand that this is a difficult situation, and as it is now, we have to deal with it. But the Red's agenda here is a completely different one. The Red's agenda is, of course, a general attack on the tendering regime. Suspicion that someone who has submitted a tender, who has been qualitatively assessed to be able to deliver on this, and who actually provides this type of service in many countries around the world, is able to deliver the services in Norway for the next year, becomes a position I believe we are politicians, who are responsible for being neat in the rules and processes we have, cannot take. This is a company that has experience in providing this type of service. They have won a tender. It is the company that has offered today, which is unable to deliver on its tender, and that is why we are in a serious situation, which is what we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e689	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e694	It is the right who places the tender regime over the individual. We see that tenders can work for, let's say, building a house, but not to run a service that is socially critical, and so where the tendering process causes pilots, technicians and mechanics with the skills we depend on to be able to do the service over the summer. Here the right has to put away its skyscrapers and rather find practical solutions that can save the service over the summer. It's not like sticking to Babcock and continuing with the extra measures are free of charge. And as we've been informed, based on the numbers so far, we're going to spend over 100 million dollars. kr on these additional measures if they continue until Babcock takes over on 1 July next year. They will take over with fewer pilots and fewer aircraft than we have had with Air Transport. What will be the final calculated price tag of the additional measures by the government to save this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e703	I believe that it is not the price tag of the extra measures that are important in this context. It's actually that we give a good preparedness to people who need it. We are in a situation where a supplier is unable to deliver on the current tender. Then we start action because we do not put the bid or the candle in front of people. We put in other measures to ensure that we have good services during the period that the service provider does not actually deliver them. That's why this has cost more in the short term. We have said that we should be involved in assessing the issue of a publicly operated business, but it is not certain that the primary task of public and health companies is to operate an airline and its service functions. No matter how one should organise this in public, significant parts of it would certainly have been on offer to go to the professional environments that can do this in a good way. I think we get the best health care by making sure that it is best at its core task, namely treating patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e712	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're moving on to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e726	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Knowledge and Integration on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed. Question 5, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health, has been transferred to the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health who is directing him. Question 7, from the representative Cecilie Myrseth to the Minister for Fisheries, will be raised by the representative Ruth Grung. Question 8, by Kari Henriksen, to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, who is directing him. Question 11, from the representative Sandra Borch to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e748	This question, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Knowledge and Integration on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e753	‘The European Commission has proposed that the approval and supervision of certain types of undertakings and products be transferred from national level to the EU Securities Financial Supervisory Authority, ESMA. Reporting of all transactions in quoted securities and derivatives shall be transferred from national supervisory authorities to ESMA. How does the government assess the scope and consistency of these proposals if they are adopted, including for Norwegian sovereignty?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e760	Norway’s relationship with the European Banking, Insurance and Securities Regulators Agency – EBA, ESMA and EIOPA – was initiated by decision of the EEA Committee in September 2016. The decisions implemented the EU-EFTA policy agreement on interconnection from October 2014. Financial supervision participates fully as a member of the supervisory bodies, but without voting rights. Our experience with the participation of the Financial Supervisory Authority in the three bodies is good. The European System of Financial Supervision was established in 2011 as part of the strengthening of financial market regulation and supervision following the financial crisis in 2008. The European Commission proposed in September 2017 amendments to its system of financial supervision. As pointed out in the question, some of the proposals require ESMA to approve and supervise certain new types of undertakings and products where there is a significant cross-border element. The Commission has also proposed other amendments. That is after what I am familiar with, extensive discussion of the proposals in the Council and Parliament. There is therefore reason to clarify that the proposals have not been finalised and that we do not yet know what the EU may adopt of changes. As the Minister of Finance stated in the Questionnaire on 9 May this year, we are making representations from the Norwegian side in the discussion in the EU on the proposals for the changes for the financial supervisory agencies. In particular, we point out that it is important to maintain the balanced solution we now have for the participation of the EEA/EFTA countries. Common European coordination, in order to ensure that legislation is practised in the same way as possible in the EEA market, is positive. Important considerations indicate that the supervision of financial markets should be based primarily on national bases, with the highest level of market knowledge. At the same time, there may be advantages in centralising certain tasks. The proposals for transferring responsibility for approval and supervision from national level to EU level relate to a limited part of the responsibilities of national financial supervisors. We will continue good solutions for Norwegian links with the European Financial Supervisors. We cannot exempt ourselves from the financial developments in the European Union. In order to facilitate the functioning of the Norwegian financial and capital market, we therefore need to find solutions within the EEA that facilitate Norwegian participation in the supervisory bodies, within our legal framework. The Minister of Finance expresses these views in meetings with his colleagues in the European Union. The Government will continue to promote Norwegian views in the ongoing review.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e783	What the Stortinge did two years ago was to involve the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority in EU decisions, and now there is a proposal from the European Commission to extend powers to EU financial supervision in new areas. So the Council of State here says that it is important to preserve national right in a number of areas, but it may make sense to give sovereignty in some areas. Then I'd like to ask the Council of State to specify what he's putting into it: in what areas is it? And specifically to what I asked questions about: In the areas of the approval and supervision of certain enterprises and products, does one from Norway believe that it makes sense that that competence is added to the EU, that Norway is not still going to do so, and similarly that reporting should go to the EU financial supervision rather than to the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e790	The representative has a very one-sided view of this matter, and one-sided emphasis. It is important that we also have the broad perspective: both why this regulation has come into place – the wake of the financial crisis, the need for more coordination of supervisory tasks where one has cross-border tasks – and the Norwegian financial market, which must also be part of the European market. So I think it would be totally wrong now to go into concreteising the EU proposal, because we do not know what that proposal is going to be. But as we have said, we are positive for pan-European coordination, but we believe that a national anchoring of these tasks is important. We also want to see an equivalent balanced solution, as is the case in the existing system, and come back to anchoring in the Stortingen when we know what the EU is in favour of, and when we have been evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e797	The central part has a very clear position. We believe that national governance and control of the regulation of the financial sector in Norway is important. It has served Norway well, and it is important that it is continued. We also believe that it is important that we have our own national currency in Norway, unlike the party of the Council of State, for Norway. But what I am asking about concretely is an assessment of the proposals put on the table by the European Union. From the Norwegian side, it must be a point to express what we think about it before it is adopted in the EU. Now it is assumed from the Council of State that we only have to follow the path when this is adopted. Or is it that the Council of State believes that if the EU proposal is too far-reaching, can Norway say no?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e804	The representative now mixes many different issues. It's not like the right goes for any change to another kind of currency. We have a relationship with the European Union today that we are committed to. In order to safeguard national interests, we believe that we are totally dependent on having a functioning EEA Agreement. The centre party has a clear but also very one-sided view on this matter. We believe that it is also important to take care of the Norwegian financial industry. We believe that it is important that we also participate in European cooperation in these areas, but take care of the national anchoring. We're expressing what we're saying about this. As I explained in my speech, Norway and the Minister of Finance are giving clear messages to the EU about what our view is. Then it will be that once the EU has made concrete what they will actually go for, we will make an assessment and get back to anchoring in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e814	As a member of the Education and Research Committee, I ask the Council of State for the following: ‘Garden gardens shall have a board of directors in their full capacity to ensure local management. In Østre Slimre municipality, today it rules in 100 pst. position at Beito and Twangang kindergartens, at a distance of 19.7 km. [[55 places]] [[40 places]] With effect from 1 August 2018, the Joint Governor of the two, i.e. 50 pst. in each kindergarten. In addition, internal light is released among the pedagogical 20 pst. position of assistant in each kindergarten. Does the Council of State consider such a management structure to be in line with the Kindergarten Act and the Special Agreement for Kindergarten?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e823	I am concerned that the staff in the kindergarten have the skills necessary to operate good kindergartens with a good offer for the best for the children and the parents. The Kindergarten Act requires the kindergarten to have sound pedagogical and administrative management and that the kindergarten should have an Executive Director or Governor. Sufficient resources must be allocated to the steering position. This spring we have tightened up the requirement for the number of kindergarten teachers, and the Stortinget will be considering tomorrow's proposal for a minimum requirement for staffing. I believe that the local management of these employees is also important for the quality that meets the children in their everyday lives. I am aware that in recent years there has been a trend towards more kindergartens organising the governance resource together in different ways, but statistics show that there has been little reduction in the total number of rulers as a result. Today’s rules provide for a certain degree of flexibility in the organisation of day-to-day management. The extent of the Board’s educational and administrative tasks varies according to factors such as the size of the nursery, the division of labour between the board and the owner, the composition of the children’s groups and the overall competence and experience of the staff. In exceptional cases, several kindergartens may pool their management resources and, in some cases, may be able to combine the position of educational director and manager. The municipality as a kindergarten authority must carry out an overall assessment of the compliance of kindergartens who choose to coordinate their management resources with the requirements of the Kindergarten Act. I believe that good and present management is essential for a safe and good kindergarten for the children and a good and developing working environment for the employees. In the position of the Education and Research Committee on amendments to the Kindergarten Act, to be discussed tomorrow by the Stortinget, the majority of the Committee shall promote the following proposals: ‘The size of the scheme requires the government to review the local manager’s requirements in kindergartens and to ensure that the derogation is such that it is not used to reduce costs in the nursery sector.’ The questioner is updating this issue and, of course, if the majority proposal is adopted, I will follow up the proposal in a good manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e851	I thank you for your answer and hope that the Committee's proposals will be adopted. We have politicians, both in the Storing and in the Government, who are ambitious on behalf of municipalities and counties in our long-term country. The legislative and executive authorities allocate tasks without necessarily having detailed investigations and taking the consequences of costs, as has just been demonstrated by the proposal for the introduction of a standard of navigation from 1 August 2018. This is the Center Party against it. Additional requirements are now being imposed on kindergartens and staffing. Does the Council of State feel that shared responsibility at large distances is satisfactory? And how does the Council of State think that municipalities should be able to recruit and pay more employees without compensation and increased transfers from the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e858	As regards the staffing standard itself, we believe that it is financed in line with what the Stoltenberg government thought, when it proposed the same thing in the spring of 2013. So we stand firm on the same principles as the red-green government did when it sat with power. I'm familiar with the discussion that has been. I think it makes sense to carry out a minimum crew. We see, for example: that there are some large private kindergarten chains that have large profits and low staffing. By introducing the standard of manning, we help to make more of the money good for the children. I would like to stress that I do not know the specific example that has also been addressed in the question, but it is clear that distances are a problem. Present management is important in kindergartens, both for the sake of children and for the development of the overall composition of staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e867	We must be careful about the use of public funds. In its alternative state budget, the Central Party has criticised the large use of administrative resources by the State and has proposed that more subsidies should go to those who actually provide the services provided to neighbouring people throughout the country, the municipalities. In its work, the government has expressed an ambition to transfer even more tasks to local government. As former Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, what relationship does the current Minister of Knowledge and Integration see between the demands of the municipalities and the economic space in which the municipalities operate to provide good services?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e874	I am no longer the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, and I will be careful about moving into that area. But as national politicians, we are constantly balancing respect for local self-government with the ability of local democracy to find solutions and national responsibility to ensure that there are equivalent services across the country. That's what I think most national politicians feel almost every day. We have debates in Stortinget where in the morning we start talking about local self-government, and then we end up with a discussion about either norms or detail management. It's a responsibility we have to take. We also have to make sure that there is a balance in this. I myself and the government are strong supporters of local democracy and believe that there should be room for good solutions, so that people's views also have real meaning through local elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e882	‘OfotLab, a roughage laboratory, analyses roughage samples from all over the country and depends on a rapid and reliable record. They have tested the transmission by sending letters/packages with real-time tracking and found that mail sorted in Oslo gets one day longer transmission time to Ofoten than the rest of the country. The situation has not improved since a stop sending mail by plane to Bodø and Evenes.’ ‘Does the Council intend to do something to speed up transmission time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e889	Let me answer both for the overall postal situation and for the specific company. Firstly, it is important that we ensure good and equivalent postal services throughout the country. That's the government's concern. We have allowed a lot of money to maintain good offers, while taking into account that there is a dramatic decrease in the volume of letters. This has been going on for a long time. It's primarily about people stopping sending letters because they use e-mails and telephones. There's something the Post has to adapt to. So the letter volume has been more than half since the millennium. The item estimates new halving from 2017 to 2025. In order to ensure the best possible postal offer while ensuring that costs are kept at acceptable levels, several changes have been made over time in the Post Office. They have gone from post office to post office in the store. It happened primarily during the previous government. Now you've done a job of merging A- and B-mails into one common mail stream. This means that some item goes slower than before – what was previously an A-post – while as before it was a B-post, now going faster than before. There is still an air connection between North and South Norway, but otherwise the mail is sent on the ground. It's to keep costs down, but it's also an environmental argument for it. The requirements for transmission are to have a minimum of 85 pst. of consignments presented after two days. That's what the Storing has decided. After the first quarter of 2018, the figures were 87.4 pst. It shows that the Item delivers better than the minimum requirements. In the case of OfotLab, to which the representative refers, the Ministry has contacted the Post. There we are told that OfotLab does not use regular correspondence, but they use so-called reply messages. In that offer, it takes an additional day because the consignments are to be sorted, counted, weighed, packed and sent together to the individual holding. That's what you do at the East Terminal. The choice of that service therefore explains the test results to which the representative refers. If OfotLab is dependent on faster forwarding of its consignments, they should select other letter and package products with faster forwarding times. I would like to encourage OfotLab to contact the Post Office or other operators in the postal market to see what might meet the company's needs. So it's not the usual transmissions that OfotLab uses, and you can't expect to get the usual delivery either. When you choose a response, it's an offer that has a different time horizon. It is to my knowledge that the answer to the question has come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e902	I was at first very clear that I was not talking about ordinary letters – neither love letters nor bills – I was talking about tests, test results, which have previously gone as an A-mail. There have been very long delays since the A-mail was removed from the end of the year. Letters have usually used up to one week or two. There has been some improvement in the last, but items that previously took one day now usually take one day plus three days – in practice five days. I find it strange that the Council of State can defend such a bad postal service – and this is particularly true of Nordland and Nord-Troms. There was no problem sending these samples as A-mails, so the details the Council of State refers to are strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e907	There was no question here, but I can still make a comment. We have not said that we take this lightly. We say it's important to have good postal services. But these are undocumented statements from the representative, it's hard to deal with. When you give the impression it generally takes five days to send a letter, and the Post's own numbers show that they deliver in line with the service, 87.4 pst. – better than the requirement – the Post does not match the representative Mossleth’s figures. I hope we have a good substantive debate on this further, that the representative Mossleth will show his statistics – from where it is – that the general delivery time of the Post is almost five days and not two days. If the representative Mossleth can show it, we'll of course go into it, because in that case we'll be misinformed by the Post. In the case of exactly OfotLab, as the representative himself used as an example, they have not chosen the regular mail stream, they have chosen so-called response, and it takes longer than normal letters.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e912	The post consistently violates the objective of mail arriving two days after dispatch in the North and South Troms. OfotLab has traced letters and broadcasts and made an analysis of it, so the minister can get it. But he can't refer to the Business Package express, because it's such a large increase cost-effectively that it's going to be completely inappropriate for the business community in the districts to use it. The price has increased from less than 100 kroner per package to an average of 600 kroner, so you have received a six-fold increase in the price of the same product after it ended with an A-mail. Can the minister say that he will do anything to get the mail planes back to Bodø?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e917	We work continuously to provide the best possible postal services in this country. That's why we also buy services that guarantee equivalent offers everywhere. I still think it is a bit strange to get claims promoted by the representative Mossleth about something that I have not mentioned in my reply. It does not always help to have completed questions, because I have not actually mentioned the letter package express in my answer. What I pointed out, on the other hand, was that OfotLab today does not use the regular mailers, according to the information we have from the Post. The agreement they have concerns the use of so-called ‘responders’. I do not ask them to use the express solution, but they could have tried to use the usual letter solutions, which go faster than the response solutions they have today. But I'm very interested in the fact that the representative Mossleth brings to the square the claims she has here, documents them and provides more information, so that we can go into this. If that's how the Post provides us with information other than what OfotLab has, or what's in general for the region, then of course we have to go into it in a different way. But the numbers we got from the Post show that the representative Mossleth's claims are not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e927	From the express mail to the express bus: «The express bus offer in Norway is under pressure, as the competitive conditions are demanding. One consequence of this is that the low-cost extrusion between Trondheim and Oslo is shut down. The company will not be compensated for social discounts such as other collective services receive, as well as for fuel charges, and for high costs associated with access to public nodes. In many cities, the express bus is the most important collective service. Will the Council of State take the initiative to improve the conditions for this important collective service?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e934	I'm generally concerned that we have a good collective offer. This applies both in cities and between cities. Ensuring that people have good access to different mobility solutions is important. For some it means having your own car, but for many, and for more than today, having good train services, good bus services, both local and regional, is important. That's why we have, among other things, increased the allocations for collective investment in cities, and we have increased the allocations for rail between cities and into cities. Express bus policy is based on commercial behaviour. There we have been concerned that we should put minimum obstacles in the way, precisely because actors who want to offer a commercial collective offer should have the chance to do so. We know that there may be challenges in some places by the county councils restricting where the express buses are allowed to pick up passengers, precisely because county municipalities do not want the express buses to compete with the locally funded bus service. So it's also a challenge, of course, that when you've had a big improvement in the rail offer a lot of places, there are some customers who automatically choose the railway over the express bus. Again, the competitive situation of the express buses has been weakened, simply by the fact that the option has improved. That was the opposite of what happened when the express buses grew up a few decades ago, that the rail offer was so bad in many places that when you got an express bus offer, they delivered better than the NSB did. Now the NSB delivers a lot better. The counties are responsible for the bus offer in the counties and have to consider whether the closure of a commercial express bus route should be replaced, if appropriate, by the purchase of that service by the counties. In the case of rebates, it is true that the State of the counties compensates where a purchaser buys services. By not purchasing services from commercial express bus offers, there is also no compensation scheme if they offer discounts to their customers. If you were to do that, there had to be an entry on the government budget, which in that case would have made you have less money to buy other services, such as healthcare, etc. Of course, Stortinget is free to prioritise among these, but that's why. So it's not that the Storting treats them differently through purchase, but one has seen that the government does not buy these services. There are some regulations from the EU that, of course, the Central Party may wish us to implement in Norway, which would have to start with that type of purchase, but in that case it will be an initiative from the Centre Party. That being said, in the Jeløya Declaration, the government is saying that we should further liberalise or even fully liberalise the express bus policy. This means that we look at the possibility that the competitiveness of the express buses – preferably against county-buyed services – can be strengthened in order to contribute to the better economy of the express bus companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e953	I thank you for your answer. I don't think there are so many positive feedback messages for the express bus industry in the response from the state council. It's awfully good that people are now starting to take the train and travel more collectively, that's positive numbers. But it is area in the Gudbrand valley as, among other things, The low-cost press has a serva, which now does not have a better train offer, nor is it poorer. Year after year, the NSB has operated the commercial train service between Oslo and Trondheim. Last weekend the railway was shut down due to an important maintenance work, and no bus for trains was set up. Then the Gudbrands valley almost didn't have a collective offer at all. Does the Council of State think this is acceptable for travellers to and from Gudbrandsdalen during the weekends?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e960	Now a debate is taking place in a slightly different area, because express buses I don't think should generally survive that they will sometimes act as a bus for trains on a commercial basis. It's not a good business model. We have been positive about creating express buses when a person wants to create new offers, etc. Some of them survive, some of them don't. But mostly the county councils that, through their restrictions on where you can pick up passengers, have been the challenge, and that is where we look at liberalisation. In the case of a train service, I am concerned that people should have a good offer even when the railway has to be closed for maintenance, both when it is planned and when it is unforeseen. We now spend much more money on a bus for trains than before to have a better standby, but also because we maintain much more. Of course, it is not good when it comes to stopping a train section and one has no alternative transport. It's some of the jobs that NSB and Bane NOR have to do together and assess all the way, depending on who's the reason things stop, so that you make sure that the alternative transport becomes the best possible, even if you can't always guarantee that all the flights are the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e967	We share the concerns that one should actually have a collective offering that served the whole country. The Nord-Gudbrandsdalen is the region furthest from the main aerodrome, the longest from the capital in travel time. What has happened in the last year is that several of these express bus companies that have served this area have either cancelled or clearly restricted the supply. Will the Council of State go in and look at measures that help to ensure that one at least gets an express bus offer that serves these parts here, without waiting for the EU to come up with some good measures or ideas for us? Can we be more offensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e974	I am not going to let the EU rule in this area, just as I intend to let the EU rule in other areas. We conduct the policy that is best for Norway, based on what the government wants for Norway. When it comes to strengthening the express bus offer, I would like to remind you first of all that it is the county municipalities that are responsible for the public transport services that are bus based. This means that if you need to develop bus routes in counties or between counties, it's basically the counties that are responsible. But of course, we have an impact on some of the overall regulations. As I also mentioned in the introduction: in the Jeløya statement, we say that we should work to liberalise the conditions surrounding express bus routes. We know that some express buses have experienced problems because they are not allowed to pick up passengers locally because of county restrictions – the county municipalities simply protect their own bid. We consider removing the access of county councils to refuse to pick up local passengers. This will allow the customer base of the express buses to be higher and thus also improve the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e986	This question, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health, has been transferred to the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e991	‘Norway is at the top of the world in foe spot. 2 114 were diagnosed in 2016 and 330 died. Over 90 pst. of which the cases are linked to UV rays, mostly from the sun and solar sources. The cancer strategy states that targeted information on the relationship between sun exposure and skin cancer risk should be provided and that prevention should be monitored in the National UV and Skin Cancer Strategy 2019-2023. What will the government do to prevent skin cancer and will it consider measures such as an increased low-factor sunscreen tax and a ban on solarium?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e998	It is worrying that Norway is among the top countries in the world in terms of pectoris. There has been a time-lapse in the number of new cases of emesis in relation to the size of the population in the last 60 years. The main causes are changes in solar habits and increased use of solarium. Many suns too much, both in the sun and in the sun. It's estimated that as much as 95 pst. the skin cancer cases can be prevented by less sunbathing. Prevention thus involves measures to reduce individual exposure to harmful UV rays. That's why it's important for the population to know why sunlight and solarium are dangerous, and what they can do to protect themselves. The straw liver is now leading the process of creating a national strategy to reduce the incidence and mortality of skin cancer in Norway. The strategy shall apply for the 2019-2023 period. Among others, the Health Directorate and the Register of Cancer are involved in this working group, and a reference group of the relevant trade unions and non-governmental organisations has also been set up. The strategy will be completed in the course of the year, and the Ministry of Health and Welfare will follow the work closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1005	Our statistics when it comes to pruning shears have been ugly for very many years. We're good at other cancer treatments, but when it comes to this form, there's a lot of mortality. It's a statistics that I don't think we can recognize, and something that it's incredibly important that we get a political push behind and follow up on. I was contacted by a researcher from the Cancer Register who indicated that studies had been carried out to show that those who used low-factor sunscreen had an increased risk of developing cancer, because one then sunk more, with a poor protection. Many people call for at least a solar factor of 30 if there is to be any sense. increase the fee for low-factor sunscreen, so one helps people to lubricate more sensibly. What does the Council of State think of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1012	I am rather a supporter of providing correct and good information. That one has meetings with different research environments – which I see the Committee has had – I welcome very much, because it is important – that is exactly the knowledge we need. It is also true that even though statistics show that we have had a high incidence in Norway over many, many years, it is also in the context that more and more people travel to the South – not just one, but perhaps twice a year – and when we get periods of sun in the spring and early summer, there is a downturn, etc. Even I come from what I almost call the Spinol generation. When I grew up, it wasn't so common with sunscreen, because you didn't know you were going to use it. We also see an increase, especially among men over 50 in those statistics, as a result of obscene sunning in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1019	Knowledge is an important keyword. I want to ask the Council of State if it sees the value of having a proper, national information campaign for the right solar use and for the prevention of skin cancer. I think that would actually be very important. The other thing I want to ask you is about solarium, which we know contributes to an increase in pectoris in Norway and other countries. The red-green government introduced the 18-year limit, which it is still today, but we also introduced manning requirements, which the new government took away. Will the Council of State consider imposing manning requirements? And what does the Council of State say about the proposal to have a ban on solarium, which several other countries consider, and which many research communities now call for?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1026	Then again, it is important for me to gather knowledge and information from all sides. When we are going to present the national strategy, as I mentioned in the introduction, it is a wide-ranging sample to be included – the Cancer Register, etc. – to see how we're going to do this as right as possible. When it comes to knowledge-building and information campaigns, I'm very open, because that's where we're going to have to step in. People need to know what that means. I am also a little concerned about the younger generation – I also know that the representative Toppe is concerned about – and the attitudes towards the body and in this case brown color. What makes it so desirable to get as brown as possible, and what consequences does it have in the long term? If a particular attention is given to appearance, you may be informed that it may have some consequences for the skin later, unless it becomes so serious that a person actually gets skin or pelvic patches.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1036	‘In connection with Norway’s accession to the EU’s third energy market package, Stortinget decided to make a formal declaration to the EU/EEA. In answer to written question No. 1518 shows that Norway's ambassador to the EU has handed over a letter to the EU on the occasion of the case. The letter shall attach to the agreement between the majority of the parties 'for information'. What is the legal status of this letter in the EEA Agreement, for example in a conflict situation between Norway and the EU on the interpretation of current or future EU/EEA legislation in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1043	In the context of the decision of the EEA Committee to include the third energy market package in the EEA Agreement, Norway took a constitutional reservation under Article 103 of the EEA Agreement because the consent of the Storting was necessary for inclusion. The Storting gave its connection to Prop. 4 S for 2017-2018 on 22 March. In accordance with the ordinary procedures for the incorporation of EEA acts, Norway notified on 27 April that the constitutional requirements had been met by the Norwegian side. In line with the agreement between the Government Parties, the Workers' Party and the Green Party, Norway's ambassador to the EU on the same date handed over a separate letter to the President of the EEA Committee, who is the EU representative in the Committee, to which the agreement was attached in an orderly form. The letter, together with the attached agreement, is to be regarded as a declaration from Norway. It clarifies the premise that the majority parties in this case agree to the inclusion of the third energy market package in the EEA Agreement. A declaration is not legally binding but is an expression of a view of the parties. The Vienna Convention, on the law of the Treaties, contains general principles for the interpretation of the Treaties. These are also seen as expressions of binding customary law. Article 31(1) 1 of the Convention states that the wording of the Treaty shall be understood in the context in which it is incorporated. In addition, Article 31(1) provides: 2 (b) explicitly that instruments issued in connection with the conclusion of a Treaty could form part of the context and thus affect the interpretation of the wording of the Treaty. Consequently, if a dispute should subsequently arise over the understanding of the act, a statement could be used in the circumstances as an interpretative element in the discussion and in any court proceedings. The agreement between the majority parties on the premises for consenting to the inclusion of the third energy market package expresses a common position on the Norwegian side and addresses key energy policy issues. The declaration will underpin and provide guidance for government positions related to future EU legislation relevant to the energy sector. New acts adopted in the EU will normally be subject to an independent assessment to determine whether they are considered to be EEA-relevant and acceptable for inclusion in the EEA Agreement. The agreement between the majority parties will therefore lead to the positions and assessments of the Norwegian authorities relating to future EU legislation relevant to the energy sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1054	With Stortinget’s agreement to the EU’s third energy market package, vital parts of Norwegian energy policy were under the authority of the EU. One has established a regulatory authority, RME, which is not to be governed by Norwegian politicians and which is to retrieve its instructions from the EU – a mere circumvention of the Basic Law. In order to overcome this in the Storting, one was totally dependent on promising to make a declaration to the EU. It has ended with a letter to the European Union for information. The question remains: What response has the EU received to the letter sent by Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1061	Firstly, the premise of the question is completely wrong. Norway has not indicated vital parts of national energy policies, rather the opposite. National energy policy is still Norwegian, and we have full sovereignty over it. Moreover, there has been no circumvention of the Constitution. On the contrary, the constitutional and sovereignty waiver issues have been assessed in two rounds by the Department of Justice and Defence. It is well known to the representative. As I said in my answer, this is to be regarded as a declaration from Norway. It is – although not legally binding – an expression of Norway’s view. There is also something that will guide any future issues that would relate to changes to this energy market package, or other energy-related issues relevant to what has been agreed upon. It also states that this is a statement which may affect the interpretation of the wording of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1068	I asked what was the EU response to this declaration. It is common practice in EEA law to have a joint declaration – at the time of a decision – in order to have a common understanding of what has been made. It is also common to have correspondence between the parties. For example, at the time of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, we had an exchange of letters on the issue of ownership regulation in the financial sector, where one made it clear to the EU that the rules we had – the 10 pst. rule – could continue. Nevertheless, in retrospect, due to the dynamic development of the EU, Norway has had to give up these regulations. In this case, Norway does not seem to have ensured any EU views at all — it is only unilateral, on a Norwegian basis, what has been delivered here. Is that correctly understood, or has a given any kind of EU assessment and commitment in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1077	I can just repeat what I've said. Norway has made a declaration, a declaration which is not legally binding but which may affect the interpretation of the wording of the Treaty, which may be an interpretative element in the event of a dispute. A dispute has not occurred. It will also provide guidance for Norwegian positions and Norwegian views on future EU legislation relevant to the energy sector. We believe from the Norwegian side that there is an important statement made to the EU, and it is made in line with what was seen by the majority. In relation to the binding customary law listed by the Vienna Convention, the wording of the Treaty shall be understood in the context and context in which it is incorporated. It is part of the context, the declaration made from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1087	This question, from the representative Cecilie Myrseth to the Minister for Fisheries, is raised by the representative Ruth Grung.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1092	‘In order to be able to control the populations of lip fish, the Minister for Fisheries decided to close the fishery earlier this year. The intrusions have hit many people who have been involved in lip fishing. According to the FiskreisebladetFiskkaren on 9 May, the restriction on access has also led to the transfer of the allowances. A fisherman who was allocated the allowance free of charge has placed his 5.5-metre plastic boat with the corresponding allowance for sale, and he had received a bid of 1.35 million kroner. Does the Council of State see this as a challenge that needs to be addressed politically?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1099	As has been said, I decided on 22 March to close the fish for lip fish. It is easy to admit that it was a very difficult decision, precisely because it affects everyone who has been fishing for lip fish. And someone gets hit a little bit harder than others. However, the decision was absolutely necessary to control the resource take-off and to ensure the profitability of those who still have access to fishing. The need for mitigation was evident, as there has been an excessive resource take-off in this fishery over several years, and in particular in 2017. My warnings also came quite early with regard to possible closure. The professional advice for 2017 added a withdrawal of 18 million fish, but the actual withdrawal was almost 28 million. It in itself added that we had to take some grip. I have a great deal of understanding that such austerity can be demanding for the actors, but it is important to bear in mind that this contributes to greater stability and predictability and thus also ensures the income base for those who are still allowed to participate. As I said, it was quite early to see that there had to be a significant grip on the regulation of the fish for lip fish in 2018. I therefore asked the Directorate of Fisheries last September to carry out a written hearing during the autumn of 2017. The hearing was a thorough process, in which various consequences were assessed, and I have taken a very good time to listen to all the different recordings that have come. The opinions of the hearing bodies were as expected very different, and it was completely impossible to satisfy all. However, both the Norwegian Fisheries Team and the Fisheries Directorate made clear recommendations to close the fish, which I joined after a thorough assessment. In line with the practice of previous closures, I prioritised fishermen with the greatest activity in the fisheries for lip fish in the qualifying years. But the priority fishermen too have had to endure a considerable tightening. For example, in 2017, when everyone was able to participate, the quotas were 75 000 fish, while in 2018 they were reduced to 45000 fish – in a closed group and with significantly fewer vessels. With regard to the negotiability of poultrymeat quotas, I would like to point out that for a relatively long time, the fisheries legislation has opened up a certain degree of negotiability of participant access and quotas in closed fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1112	No one contests the need to regulate and close fishing – that is the way it has been done. The fisherman’s magazine mentions the regulation of the lip fish as a purely parody and says that the authorities have not learned. Today’s Businesses show that the state is giving up free allowances for 600 to 700 million. kr without any conditions or conditions. It's a little special when we meet young people. I've met Nathanael Sjo from Women's Heath, 20 years old. Last year he bought a boat, got support from Innovation Norway, was able to hire six men at work as a 20-year-old and is now excluded from fishing, while others become millionaires by converting the fish. The question is: will the Minister impose an immediate ban on sales, withdraw quotas and ensure that young people have other criteria to qualify for fishing?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1119	I must first be allowed to say that I agree with the representative that this is of political importance. However, I would like to point out that in 2015 the Solberg government presented its own bill on this very question, Prop. 88 L for 2014-2015. In this proposition, all this was discussed in detail — to what extent concessions and participant access should be subject to negotiability. This proposal was widely accepted in this house, in Stortinget, with the support of the Workers' Party. This is also the basis for closing the fish for lip fish. The fact that the Workers' Party now believes something other than what they meant in 2015, I understand and register, but I have followed the same practice as previous governments in closing fishing. In this case it has been absolutely necessary to close the fishing for the purpose of the stock.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1124	I repeat: no one argues that there is a need to close the fish. That's how it is done, where the community's resources, the state's property, are allocated free of charge, so that some become millionaires, while others, young people who have invested in the profession – of which there is a broad political consensus – are destroying their entire future. It must be possible to take political action, cut off the right to continue trading, see if quotas that are not actually used can be withdrawn, and give to young people of 20 years of age. They do not have the ability to qualify for those requirements; they should be given different conditions to qualify for a future as fishermen. 35 young people are behind that requirement, and they've been fishing. What political action are there opportunities for, is my final question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1129	I find it difficult to see any reasonable reason why we should have made a special exception for the lip fish when the broad majority of the Stortinget, including the Workers' Party, agreed in 2015 on the degree of negotiability of fishing quotas. The fact that the Workers' Party has now changed its policy and opinion in 2018, I am recording, but I based my decision on the broad majority that the Stortinget made in 2015, when I decided to close the marketing of quotas in the fisheries for lip fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1137	This question, from Kari Henriksen's representative to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, who will address the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1142	«I have received a request for a parent with shared care for three children. The other parent has a contribution of approx. 60,000 kroner, have moved far away and require the sharing of travel expenses under Section 44 of the Children's Act. The party with daily care for the children is struggling financially, and it may seem that the law is too weak in terms of rights and obligations in this field. The only dangerous road is justice, which is expensive and further conflict-making. How will the Council of States contribute to a fairer solution?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1149	Parents are obliged to support their children, even when they do not live together. In the absence of a contributory capacity or willingness to pay a child contribution, public security of the child will be ensured through the advance scheme and may enforce the child contribution where the conditions for it are met. Travel expenses in the event of association shall be shared between parents proportionally according to the size of their income. The one with the best finances shall cover the largest proportion of travel expenses. In exceptional cases, a different allocation may be made. The common financial responsibility for travel expenses underlines the responsibility of both parents to help the child to have the best possible contact with the child with whom he does not live. Both parents are important caregivers in the lives of children and know best which arrangements work best for each family. Through the changes in the law of the last period, the government made it possible for both parents to be equivalent caregivers. Among other things, the pre-movement alert period was extended from six weeks to three months and new rules and mediation have been introduced in the event of relocation and coercion. Furthermore, the collection of fines has been streamlined. All of this facilitates good cooperation between parents and compliance with decisions on association for the best interests of the child. During this period, in line with the Jeløia Platform, the government will appoint a public body to review and modernise the Children’s Act, including the assessment of the contribution system’s design for equal parenthood, and review the rights of children, especially from an international perspective. A theme will be about the principles underpinning the system of the Children’s Act today, which are in line with social development, and which ensure that the child’s best interests are properly taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1160	It is a good account that the Council of State gives of the laws and regulations in force. But what we see is that child poverty, among other things, is has increased under this government, from 84 000 to 98 000 in just two years, from 2013 to 2015. Children in families where there is economic sabotage will risk ending up in child poverty because of persistent loss of income. When we dealt with the Swedish Children's Act in 2017, the Workers' Party proposed to investigate alternative dispute resolution arrangements in the event of a break-in involving children. The right-wing government voted down. Does the Council have any idea of what other means it can use until the government receives feedback from this sample on what is available? Because it can take a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1167	When we put these experts in this sample, it's because we want to get more knowledge about how parents in practice should experience an equal parenthood. While respecting the rights of parents, we must respect the rights of the child. That's why the government wants such an expert committee, to give us a basis, so that we can take the right action. As the representative points out, how can we prevent children from living in sustainable low-income families? Then there are a number of other measures we need to take, such as free leisure activities and reduced costs for both SFO and kindergarten. The most important thing, however, is that we get our parents — and not least their immigrant mothers — into work, because that is a major reason why many children live in low-income families over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1172	There was nothing in the answer that said that anything would happen before this sample is finished, and as I said, it could take years and months. In some situations, Nav's follow-up to the move, as also referred to by the Council of State, is absent for these families. It happens to varying degrees, but it happens. This means that a large part of the income base of a family falls away from a few months, making self-sufficiency very difficult and unpredictable over time. What will the Minister do to follow up, so that Nav does not put families in a situation where large parts of the life base fall away? Is it the case that the Council of State will now wait for the sample before she does anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1177	These are issues that go more to the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs than mine, especially since it is linked to payments from Nav. I would like to stress that both parents have an obligation to contribute to the provision and education of the child, according to their financial capacity. I would also like to stress that child support is a matter of private law, but if the parents do not agree, they can ask the public, by Nav, to determine the child contribution. It is precisely that we should be able to take action and look at new schemes that will help these children and parents, that we set up an expert committee. If we had all the answers, there wouldn't be any reason to put down a sample. That's why I'm looking at how we can best ensure a sample that can give us the good answers that are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1189	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. ‘The Minister of Defence believes that there have been thorough assessments of the runway system at Evenes in advance of the political treatment of two long-term plans. In addition, a concept selection study has been developed for Evens, if one could call the investigation for this, which has been subject to external quality assurance. Avinor must have been an important contributor to this work. Is it true that there is no need for upgrading the rail system and can the Council of State explain these assessments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1198	In the establishment of Evenes as the base for marine patrol aeroplanes and forward fighter aeroplanes, there is no need for upgrading the Evenes track system beyond the re-establishment of runway lighting and de-icing chemicals. As the representative points out, careful assessments have been made around the runway system at Evenes, both in advance of the political treatment of the long-term plan in 2012, under the then government, and in 2016. In addition, a concept selection study – which is a concept selection study – has been developed for Evenes and is also externally quality-secured. Neither in the long-term nor in the concept selection investigation has there been a need for upgrading the track system at Evenes. Experts from Avinor, Defence Equipment, Defence and Defence Building have all contributed to these assessments. Like many other airports in Norway, including Bodø, Evenes has deviations from international standards. The criticisms of the establishment of the Evenes have claimed that the distance between the runway and the parallel taxiway will lead to co-existence challenges, but in most cases co-existence becomes only a theoretical issue. Evens currently has relatively little traffic compared to other airports. Even with maritime patrol aircraft and forward fighter aircraft, in addition to the expected increase in civil aviation traffic, the number of movements will remain significantly below the maximum capacity. Avinor assesses the planned traffic management of both civil and military traffic at Evenes as unproblematic. The activity level at Evenes was about 40 flight movements per day in 2017. According to Avinor, the capacity of the existing track system is the 25-hour flight movements of Evene. The total number of flight movements in the peak hour is expected to be well below half of this under normal conditions. Thus, the capacity of the railway system at Evene Airport is well above future planned activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1212	I thank you for the answer, but I have to ask if the Council of State is properly informed, because in a letter of 8 August 2017, Avinor writes the following: ‘Lifetime costs should also include track system and infrastructure used by QRA and MPA. Substantial upgrade of the special parallel taxiway will be required in the next 10 years.» So now the state council says there's no need for an upgrade until he hastened to say that there's going to be a need for runway lights and de-icing chemicals. But the Council of State was not concerned with the contact that Avinor has made to the ministry, namely that there is a need for “significant upgrade especially parallel taxiway over the next 10 years”. And it is contrary to what the Council of State now says, and what the Council of State has said in several written answers – to questions from the undersigned – about. So then I ask again, is it that there is no need for a substantial upgrade of the track system at Evenes when establishing QRA and MPA in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1224	There have been many questions in this matter. There has been a claim that an emergency runway must be established at Evenes. That's the background for some of the discussions that have been. When considering Evenes as our sole base for our fighter planes, an emergency runway was required. So once Evenes has got the status of a QRA base, there's no need for an emergency runway. The Government shall base its decision from 2012 on the development of an advanced operating base for fighter aircraft at the Evenes Air Station. Prior to the decision in 2012, capacity assessments related to the runway system were carried out at Evenes. The assessments concluded that it was not necessary to establish an emergency runway for a forward-looking fighter aircraft operating base; it was only if you wanted to establish the fighter base on Evenes. So the taxiway that's up there can be used as an emergency runway with the activity that's going to be, and it's included in the calculations we've provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1233	I still did not understand that the Council of State answered the question. The question was whether there is a need for a substantial upgrade. Avinor believes it does, and I'm recording that the Council of State believes it doesn't. It would have been an advantage if the Storting had been made aware of what was actually the real issues in this case. I record that the state council is hiding behind the emergency roller coaster, but that is not the case, as I have perceived, that there is an emergency roller coaster Avinor refers to when they say that there will be a need for substantial upgrade, by, among other things. The taxiway, the next ten years. So I ask the question again: Is it such that the Council of State can guarantee that there will be no need for substantial upgrading of the track system at Evenes, in addition to what the Council of State has already had, the premise that we should not have emergency runways, and runway lights and de-icing systems, as well as brake wire system – if I do not remember faults – that the Council of State did not mention? Can the Council of State guarantee that there will be no significant upgrade needs of the railway system over the next 10 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1240	Avinor has been involved in the concept selection investigation at Evenes. It is also externally quality guaranteed. We believe that the assumptions contained in it, in the plans that have been worked out, in cooperation with Defence Building and Avinor, are correct. The quality assurance shows that the plans we have made are consistent. Then I assume that the costs that will be included in the project for the future are included in the process that has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1245	The next question is from the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to the Minister for Climate and Environment. The President cannot see that the representative is present. Then we switch to the order and take the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1260	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1268	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration the following questions: ‘When I signed the very alarming draft investigation by the Directorate for Social Security and Civil Protection on the refugee situation in Norway in the Stortinget on 3 May 2017, the Minister for Justice and Security replied in the VG on the same day that ‘As soon as the consultation round is over, we need to look at the measures that need to be taken to improve the situation [...]’. There has now been a government budget and a revised budget since then. When will the government provide measures to rust up the shelters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1277	Refuge spaces are shelters designed to protect the population from damage, primarily in the event of armed conflict. In Norway today we have about 600 public shelters. This is equivalent to 300000 places. In addition, we have 19,500 private shelters with 2,320 000 seats. This corresponds to a coverage of about 50 pst. by the population. For many years, the upgrading and maintenance of shelters has not been a high priority. The access space system has major deficiencies, particularly in three areas: the physical and mechanical condition of the spaces; plans for preparation and operation; maintenance, maintenance and operation in peacetime and on standby; It is the task of civil defence to conduct state control with the shelters, and recently the civil defence in Rogaland conducted an exercise where the purpose was to practice operating a shelter. Today’s security policy situation and changing the risk and vulnerability picture mean that we need to change our priorities related to the shelters. Unlike a traditional armed conflict, a possible terrorist attack, using toxic gases, viruses, radioactive radiation, etc., is unlikely to be notified in advance. Most shelters are used daily for other activities, such as storage and the like. Accumulation rooms will therefore be difficult to operate in the event of unannounced events. At the same time, recommendations from our colleges suggest that traditional thinking on, among other things, the location and construction of shelters is out of date. In the past, the shelters were built in the vicinity of military objects. Any armed conflict today is most likely to be geographically limited, intensive and targeted at military and civil key objectives. In Norway, therefore, it is appropriate to consider targeting resources against safeguard measures close to these key objectives and strategically important areas — what we call a modernised zoning concept. The question of shelter is also part of a wider context – which civil protection measures we should have. Today, in particular, three protective measures are relevant: warning, evacuation and shelter. The issue of civil protection measures is also an important issue for the overall defence of Norway. On behalf of the Ministry of Justice and Security, the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, launched a civil defence study that provides recommendations on what civil defence and the civil protection measures Norway will have in the future. The study was carried out as a project in the DSB and became a concept investigation. The report was presented to the Minister of Justice and Security on 14 July 2016. The draft investigation has been held for six months. The Ministry asked the DSB to compile the hearing opinions by 1 December 2017 and to submit a recommendation to the Ministry of Justice. The recommendation is now under consideration in the Ministry of Justice. The Government will therefore present the matter to the Storting in an appropriate manner when it has been carefully assessed and considered in the context of other budgetary priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1304	I thank you for the answer, which I regret to say was not just reassuring. The threat picture in the world today is that both states and terrorist organisations are planning to prepare estimates against the civilian population to spread fear, to paralyze states and to throw cards because so many people are being hit. Then it is clear that there is a danger to the type of attack mentioned by the government council — chemical attacks, gas attacks, radioactive attacks, viruses, etc. When the Protection Act was last dealt with, I think it was in 2010, Stortinget decided that we should still have shelters, and that they should then be updated. There are a number of things that need to be in place to protect them from such attacks. It is not easy to say to the population of e.g. Oslo that there is only about certain objectives you have to have real access to shelter. There is a strong point in the matter if that is what the Council of State wants to add up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1309	What we're adding up to is doing a thorough job on this. As I point out, and as the representative also says, there is a change in the threat picture and the security picture from the time you built shelters in the past, and you were also required to build for the private sector. The fact that things have changed means that you just have to see if you're going to have the same shelters in the same way and rust up these. What we're really adding up to now is doing this thoroughly and really. That is why we have asked for a hearing on the investigation. We are now compiling the hearing opinions, and we have got them evaluated. At the same time, I would like to remind you that we also have a comprehensive defence programme in progress, which is due to end in 2020. But it's just the changes in society that make us think maybe differently about the concept, where to build, and how to organize. But there's little sense in just spending money on the same old concept. We have to modernise it before the shelters are rusted up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1316	Thanks for the answer. It was a very dramatic report that came about that the private people responsible for most of the shelters were not aware of their responsibility, that there was no emergency force to enable the shelters, and that the equipment was not appropriate in providing real protection. It's very serious things that were in the report that were at the hearing last year. It is important that the government handle this as quickly as possible. A question I have then regarding the financing of the measures, which will, of course, be costly, relates to the free-buying mechanism. In 1998, a system was set up to avoid building shelters in new buildings, and instead funds were to be allocated to a locked account called free purchasing. My question is how the money in the locked account has been spent, if the council knows the scheme, and how he thinks about the use of it in financing solutions here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1325	I must be allowed to come back to that question. I can't answer that on the standing foot. But it's true that there was a change that came. Now, when we go through the whole concept, it's to look at both all the economic aspects and the legislation around this. I agree with the representative that it was worrying, and that it is a matter of both upgrading, understanding and also of the private knowing of their responsibilities. This is probably the result of a lack of understanding of public preparedness after the fall of the Berlin Wall. But the government is now doing a lot to point out that we have to raise the alert, and we have to see this in a lot of ways in a different light. Everything wasn't just good after the fall of the Berlin Wall. But there's another kind of threat, which means you have to spend time studying this properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1341	This question falls because the queryer is still not present. The President will be sorry to the Council of State, which certainly has good answers, but they must probably wait for the representative and us to get. That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-30.ana.ud355e1357	There is no record available. This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for the word under § 54 of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
